Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. Java/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - Cummins Indianapolis, IN Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Cummins - Indianapolis, IN June 2018 to Present Description: Cummins is an American Fortune 500 corporation that designs, manufactures, and distributes engines, filtration, and power generation products. Cummins Inc. is organized into distinct but complementary business segments Engine segments, Power system segments, Cummins Filtration, Cummins turbo Technologies etc. Project name is Dcom where we developed a website for the distributors to access the website so the customers can order the parts like filter, engines from the distributor and the logic was written to calculate the amount for the old part once returned.  Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed a custom, single-page, responsive web application on front end using AngularJS.  • Designed the application using various Spring technologies and used Spring Security to provide better authentication instances.  • Responsible for all stages of design, development, and deployment of applications. Active role in Test Driven Development termed as TDD apart from Agile Software Development.  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and Bootstrap with AngularJS interaction.  • Developed custom directives, Factories and Services in AngularJS and created AngularJS Controller to isolate the scopes to perform operations.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages. Creating a responsive web application integrating TwitterBootstrap with Angular JS and media queries.  • Added user validations and user permissions by using the NodeJS with libraries Express JS.  • Developed an API to write XML documents from a database. Utilized XML and XSL Transformation for dynamic web-content and database connectivity.  • Developed SOAP based JAX-WS Web Service interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability.  • Developed Restful Web services for other systems to interact with our system and secured the service with Spring-Security Oauth-2.0. Added WS-Security using XWSS to secure the Web services.  • Used AWS SDK for connecting to Amazon S3 buckets and EC2 to deploy on Docker Container with Microservices architecture.  • Developed AWS LambdaFunctions in a stateless style and ensure there is no affinity between and compute infrastructure to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Refactored existing monolithic application by identifying components that needs to be transformed to Micro- services architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and AWS API-Gateway.  • Developed services that utilize the Cloud Foundry and Azure client libraries (SDK) for Java.  • Deployed application using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) CLI.  • Used Micro-services to ensure the scalability of application on cloud infrastructure.  • Installed secured and configured AWS cloud servers and virtual servers using Spring Cloud for AWS.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Defined several UML diagrams; Activity diagrams, Sequence, and Object diagrams.  • Developed SOAP based JAX-WS Web Service interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  • Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  • UsedWebSphere server to route our JMS queue messages to different business floors and configured routes inWebSphere.  • Used Apache Camel Framework to transform, extract and load the data.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate spring framework.  • Developed unit and integration tests for existing microservices using JUnit, Mockito and Docker environments.  • Involved in installing and configuring Maven for application builds and deployment.  • Configured and customized logs using Log4J and Used GIT as a version control tool. Used JMeter to test performance of SOAP protocol.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  • Setup the CI and CD process for the application using the Jenkins.  • Involved in System Testing, Integration Testing, and Production Testing on WebLogic Server.  • Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications components using Restful web services by using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, NodeJS, Express JS, jQuery, AJAX, Agile (SCRUM), Hibernate, Spring, Struts, MongoDB, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Security, Servlet, JSON XML, GIT, Spring MVC, Apache Camel, JUnit, Maven, JMS, WebSphere, Restful, JAX-RS, Log4J, AWS, Docker, Microservices, JIRA, Jenkins, JMeter, GIT, Maven. Java/J2EE developer E-TCC - Fishers, IN January 2017 to May 2018 Description: TCC knows that to grow a successful business, you have to build upon a strong foundation. TCC's leadership team is comprised of Executive and Practice Leaders that bring not only expansive knowledge and experience, but an inherent understanding of how to adapt, innovate and swiftly execute in an environment that offers enormous opportunity.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology/SCRUM', developed and tested the application during various iterations.  • Installed and configured JBOSS server with MYSQL persistence. Extracted rules data from the database and decision tables.  • Developed screens using HTML, CSS and J Query.  • Developed the User Interface using Spring framework, jQuery and Ajax.  • Developed and configured karma test cases to test the Angular controllers for UI in Jasmine framework (JavaScript Testing Framework) in Eclipse IDE.  • Handled Java multithreading part in back - end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  • Used springframe work Spring AOP features and JDBC module features to persist the data to the database for few applications.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework by configuring the mappings in hibernate mapping files and created DAO and PO.  • Developed various Java beans for performance of business processes and effectively involved in Impact analysis.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Worked on MYSQL databases and Oracle databases technologies.  • Used Maven as build tool and deploying the application.  • Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects during QA phase of the project.  • Created SOAP web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • Hands on experience on Cassandra architecture with better understanding and write processes including mem-table, stable and commit log.  • Actively involved in writing SQL using SQL query builder.  • Used SVN to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Developed test cases using Junit.  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJS.  • Implemented a highly-scalable vertical and horizontal, performance efficient Drools architecture.  Environment: SCRUM, SDLC, Maven, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Jasmine Framework, Spring, Ajax, AngularJS, AOP, JDBC, Spring IOC, Hibernate, DAO, PO, Java beans, SOAP, SQL, Cassandra, JIRA, QA, SVN, Junit, JBOSS Server, Drools. Java/J2EE Developer Meijer - Grand Rapids, MI March 2015 to December 2016 Description: Meijer Inc. is an American supercentre chain throughout the Midwest, with its corporate  headquarters in Walker, Michigan, which is a part of the Grand Rapids metropolitan area.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Application based on Spring framework using MVC design patterns.  • Designed and developed Micro services business components using Spring Boot.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, analysis, design documentation, development, test cases, implementing and production support of the application.  • Followed AGILE Methodology to promote iterations, collaboration, and process adaptability and participated in SCRUM Meetings throughout the life cycle of project.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC.  • Worked on Spring Framework for Dependency and Transaction Management.  • Utilized the Spring AOP feature for implanting cross-cutting concerns like logging and Transaction Management and separated the business logic from System Services.  • Used Spring Validations Framework for validating the properties of java beans.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection, Spring Web Services framework.  • Prepared calls through Hibernate and Spring JDBC for Interacting with the Database.  • Used jQuery, AJAX to interact with Java Servlets.  • Experienced with AWS services to smoothly manage application in the cloud and creating or modifying the instances.  • Experienced working with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Used JSTL Tag library to create standard dynamic web pages.  • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and account.  • Consumed REST based Micro services with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework which automate the mapping between IBM DB2 SQL databases and objects in Java.  • Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in WebLogic Server.  • Used Active MQ to communicate with controller and used service layer to implement the business logic.  • Used Apache Camel for messaging Active MQ and used CXF for Restful Services.  • Designed and implemented MongoDB database and created REST enabled Web Services on Jersey framework.  • Used Java API for XML Web Services (JAX-WS) to convert Java Objects to XML conversions.  • Currently working on Docker container implementation for the Enterprise build system.  • Worked Docker container management along with volumes, container based DB and services, Docker Arti factory configuration and setup.  • Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that must be stored in AWS S3.  • Hands-on experience in software quality assurance in various roles and positions on UNIX/Windows/Linux applications.  • Worked on UNIX, LINUX to move the project into production environment.  • Strong technical background Production Support and solid project experience in SQL, PL/SQL, ORACLE, UNIX.  • Created Maven build file to build the application.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration with Maven and GitHub.  • Supporting the system components during system testing, integration testing and production environment.  • Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects during QA phase of the project.  • Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Implemented the application using Spring Boot Framework and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Implemented the front end using AngularJS, Node JS, HTML 5, jQuery, AJAX, CSS3 and Java script.  • Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.  • Implemented Log4j framework and customized to meet the application requirements.  Environment: Java, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS, jQuery, java Servlets, AJAX, JSP, JSTL, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Webservices, Spring Security, Spring JDBC, Hibernate, SOAP, WSDL, RESTful, Jersey, AWS, Micro Services, IBM DB2, JMS, Active MQ, Apache Camel, MongoDB, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, Unix, Windows, Linux, Docker, Log4j, Maven, JIRA, GIT. Sr. Software Developer CMC Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to January 2015 Description: CMC Limited was an information technology services, consulting and software company having its headquarters in New Delhi, India. It designs, develops, and implements software technologies and applications in India and internationally. Its Customer Services segment provides services for the IT infrastructure requirements, such as infrastructure architecture, design, and consulting services; and turnkey system integration of large network and data center infrastructures.  Responsibilities:  • Developed front-end screens using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON.  • Developed SCM by using the JSP/HTML like one form for each functionality user interface, standard validations using the JavaScript, Servlets used as the controllers for the business logic and business logic using JDBC, XML parsing techniques etc. using MVC.  • Developed Single Sign On (SSO) functionality, through which we can run SCM from Oracle Applications.  • Involved in developing the Routings and configured Routing Program as scheduled the concurrent request.  • Developed Server-Side components for the business services for creating Items, BOM, Sourcing Rules, and substitute.  • Involved in raising the Notifications to Oracle Users through Mailing Concept for intimating to start the next process using workflow.  • Extensively worked on creating the setups for Organizations, Templates, Concurrent Requests, Cross Reference Types, User Creations, assigning responsibilities, creating value sets, Descriptive Flex Fields etc., in Oracle Applications.  • Used CVS as version control system.  • Implemented Struts MVC design pattern and front controller pattern along with Action Servlet as front controller for this application.  Environment: Java, JDBC, Servlets, Oracle, JSP, XML, UML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, UNIX, CVS, DB2 and Ionic Framework, Struts MVC, Action Servlet. Associate Software Developer Innovative Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2012 to December 2013 Description: LIST Innovative Solutions, Inc. provides systems integration and data management solutions to commercial and government clients. The company offers applications development services and solutions, such as systems engineering and technical assistance.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed front-end using JSP, JSTL, EL, and other custom tag libraries.  • Designed asynchronous messaging using Java Message Service (JMS) to exchange of critical business data and events among J2EE components and the legacy system.  • Actively involved in SCRUM's and Sprints of Agile Methodology.  • Created detailed design documents (UML diagrams like Use case, Class, Sequence, and Component diagrams) using Rational Rose.  • Involved in design activities that are HLD (High-Level Design) and LLD (Low-Level Design)  • Expertise in Web Page development using XML, XSLT.  • Involved in Web Page development using YUI Library.  • Involved in the design and prepared use case diagrams, sequence diagrams, and class diagrams for various modules.  • Followed Agile methodology and Test-driven approach for project deliverables  • Developed the application using JSF Framework for the web tier and EJb3 and JPA for the backend development  • The Presentation Layer was developed using HTML, JSP, JSF, CSS, JavaScript, and JSTL.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate.  • Developed test classes in JUnit for implementing unit testing.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using concepts like IOC of Spring Framework  • Expose and Consume REST web services to get the data from different contracts from different clients and expose the warehouse inventory details for consumer tracking  • Used Spring MVC in the Web Layer.  • Involved in configuring and deploying the application using WebSphere.  • Involved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using Hibernate ORM.  • Transaction Management using the Hibernate configurations  • Responsible for development of configuration, mapping and Java beans for Persistent layer (Object and Relational Mapping) of Hibernate.  • Involved in Writing and reviewing unit test cases using JUnit.  • Used CVS as version control system to check in and check out the data.  • Write and modify database stored procedures, triggers, functions, and PL/SQL Scripts.  • Created Forms and Reports using Oracle.  • Involved in writing shell scripts for deploying the application on UNIX.  • Involved in build management and build resolution activities of e-commerce project.  • Involved in Smoke Testing, Testing, bug fixing and documentation of the system.  Environment: Java7, J2EE, Spring, JDBC, JSP, Web Services, REST, Oracle, JavaScript, HTML, CSS3, jQuery, JUnit 4, AJAX, SVN. Education Bachelor's in Electronics and Communications CMR Engineering College Skills JAVA (7 years), AJAX (6 years), DATABASE (6 years), J2EE (6 years), jQuery (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 8, J2EE, SQL, and PL/SQL  Enterprise Java JSP, Servlet, JNDI, JDBC, Java security and JSF  Mark-up/XML Technologies XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, JSON  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, AngularJS, React JS and NodeJs, Express JS  Tools & Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring HATEOAS,  Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JMS, JSF, Prime faces, Log4J,  Groovy, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Batch, Spring Security.    Web services SOAP, Restful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis2, Jersey, Microservices Architecture, AWS (Amazon Web Services)  Web/App Servers Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, WebLogic  Database Oracle, My SQL, SQL Server, IBM DB2, Mongo DB, Cassandra and Dynamo DB.  Development Tools Eclipse, Net Beans, IntelliJ, RAD and Spring Tool Suite (STS)  O-R mapping Hibernate, MyBatis and JPA  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, Mockito, Log4j, Jasmine, Karma and JIRA  Version Control CVS, SVN, GIT, Visual Source Safe