Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Verizon Wireless Chicago, IL • Extensive experience as a Java Back End Developer in developing Web-based Enterprise applications using  Java/J2EE technologies  • Experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Maintaining Java based web applications in various domains  like Insurance, Banking and ERP.  • Proficient in designing, coding, integrating and testing software (SDLC) implementations using Java/J2EE  involving development, Client/Server and Web based applications.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O  System, Multi-Threading, and JDBC.  • Extensive knowledge in working with J2EE technologies such as Springboot, Servlets3.0, Struts2, JSP,  Spring3.X-4.X, Hibernate, JPA, JDBC.  • Proficient in creating and consuming Java Web services using RESTful, SOAP along with JAX-RS, JAX-WS and  Jersey libraries.  • Experience in web application design using open source MVC (Model View Controller), Spring and Struts  Frameworks.  • Used design patterns like Singleton, MVC, and Abstract in the application development.  • Good experience on the development of EJB (Entity, Session and Message Driven Beans).  • Extensive experience in Apache Tomcat Server, JBoss, API, Portlets, Web Logic/Sphere Application Server.  • Worked on SQL, PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views and strong experience in RDBMS  using Oracle 11g/10g, SQL Server, DB2 and MySQL.  • Proficient in writing and executing test cases using JUnit and experience in using Control Version Systems like Git  and SVN.  • Worked on Mulesoft 3.0 devlopment.  • Knowledge in accessing Kibana logs.  • Hands on experience in using data processing APIs for JAXB, JSON and XML.  • Have experience in Test Driven Development (TDD), Iterative and Agile Methodologies along with CI Jenkins  for automated deployment.  • Knowledge in developing UI based Web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript libraries.  • Knowledge in using JS libraries like jQuery, Angular JS.  • Knowledge in creating Single Page Application using Angular JS 1.X and processing JSON data to render on UI.  • Experienced in using issue tracking tools like JIRA (Reporting).  • Worked as a team member in Regression Testing during the development phase of the application.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and works efficiently in cross-cultural teams.  • Energetic, self-motivated and proven ability to work independently as well as within a team. Work Experience Java Developer Verizon Wireless - Piscataway, NJ February 2019 to Present Project: My Verizon For Bussiness(MVB)    Cell# 732-790-2705    Responsibilities:  • Designed the application using Spring Boot framework for developing Restful web services following  Microservice architecture.  • Developed and consumed several REST web services supporting JSON to perform various tasks.  • Consumed SOAP web service to while working on retrieving on various data from VISION services.  • Extensively used exception handling, collections framework and java constraints in the check in services  application development.  • Worked on creating static json content for mock and actual implementation.  • Implemented Swagger UI for documentation and testing of Rest API's using Swagger API.  • Implemented Oracle database for retrieving data for the API development.  • Worked on creating packages and stored procedures in back end to retrieve data for the APIs.  • Involved in creating unit test cases using JUnit Framework.  • Worked on bug tracking tool JIRA for stories creation, sprint maintenance and backlog stories.  • Used Maven as dependency management and build tool.  • Implemented Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery using Jenkins and Kibana for logging.  • Used Git private repository as a version control system.  • Followed Agile Methodology of SDLC and involved in daily Scrum meetings.    Environment:  Java (1.7,1.8), Spring Boot, Swagger, STS, Kibana ,Eclipse, Toad, JUnit, Jenkins, Git, Maven, SoapUI, Postman, Jira. Java Developer New York Life Insurance - Clinton, NJ May 2017 to January 2019 Project: Customer Digital Experience    Responsibilities:  • Designed the application using Spring Boot framework for developing Restful web services following  Microservice architecture.  • Developed and consumed several REST web services supporting JSON to perform various tasks.  • Consumed SOAP web service to while working on retrieving on various data from different sources.  • Worked on RAML specifications for API design.  • Implemented Swagger UI for documentation and testing of Rest API's using Swagger API.  • Implemented various system level API to integrate in mulesoft as a part of microservice architecture.  • Worked on creating mocks in both anypoint studio as well as eclipse in java.  • Worked on proof of concept in applicant experience API for connecting mulesoft and system level API.  • Implemented Oracle database for retrieving data for the API development.  • Worked on creating packages and stored procedures in back end to retrieve data for the APIs.  • Involved in creating unit test cases using JUnit Framework.  • Used Maven as dependency management and build tool.  • Implemented Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery using Jenkins and Google Cloud Stack driver for logging.  • Used Git private repository as a version control system.  • Followed Agile Methodology of SDLC and involved in daily Scrum meetings.    Environment:  Java 1.8, Spring Boot, Swagger, Anypoint Studio, Anypoint platform ,Eclipse, Toad, JUnit, Jenkins, Git, Maven, SoapUI, Postman, Jira. Full stack Developer Crown Bank, NJ September 2016 to April 2017 Project: Loan Servicing System (LSS)    Responsibilities:  • Actively studied User Requirement Specification and requested insufficient information and helped clearing  ambiguity in requirements document.  • Worked on Bootstrap CSS3 for responsive web design.  • Developed the view/presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, and JavaScript.  • Involved in creating Single page application using Angular JS.  • Integrated jQuery plugins for calendar, menus and forms for UI components.  • Developed web application using JSP custom tag libraries, used Spring MVC framework to enable the interactions  between JSP/View. Designed Java Servlets and Objects using J2EE standards.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework 4.0 in the application. Developed code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI).  • Designed Spring Controller to handle requests from users and return results, Spring Validators to verified  requests, Spring Interceptors to check user status, and generate alert messages.  • Used MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layer and implemented different design  patterns with J2EE and XML technology.  • Consumed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP and Web Services for Payment Transaction and Payment Release.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features  and enhancements.  • Wrote complex SQL and HQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  • Used JSP for presentation layer, developed high performance object/relational persistence and query service  for entire application utilizing Hibernate.  • Written test cases for the project, tested the MVC framework by using spring test project, and tested separate logic  functions using JUnit Framework 4.11.  • Implemented Continuous Integration and continuous deployment using Jenkins and utilized Log4j to debug and record the logs in application.  • Created different charts for reporting by using JasperReport.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle 11g database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.    Environment:  Java EE 7, Servlets 3.0, JSP 2.3, Spring 4.0 , Hibernate, Eclipse, jQuery, Angular JS, JSF 2.2, AJAX, JMS 2.0, WebSphere, XML, SOAP, JUnit 4.11, Log4j, Oracle 11g,Jasper Reports, Windows, HTML5, CSS3 Software Developer Tata Consultancy Services India August 2014 to July 2015 Project: Resourcing project.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing a Web Application (WAR, EAR) includes coding, testing and deployment of the application.  • Used PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Triggers and SQL queries.  • Used Hibernate in DAO layer to access and update information in MySQL, developed Hibernate configuration files  (hbm.xml) for object relational mapping with database, fine-tuned performance by optimizing query and data  caching mechanisms.  • Configured log4j tool to log entire application to run concurrently with Tomcat Web Server.  • Used Eclipse for writing code.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, Hibernate 3.0, JSP, Servlet, Spring MVC, SQL Queries, MySQL, Tomcat 6.0, log4j, Eclipse Software Developer Tata Consultancy Services India August 2012 to July 2014 Project: Resourcing project.    Responsibilities:  • Used AJAX for asynchronous communication with the server.  • Applied various Java/J2EE design patterns.  • Coded Action, Action Forms and Helper classes using Struts Framework.  • Coded Business APIs using spring frame work.  • Carried out unit and component based testing using JUnit.  • Deployment of Classic ASP and MVC Applications using different application pools on web server as a single  Intranet Application.  • Developed database layer using JDBC and followed DAO pattern.  • Developed batch programs for loading the data on weekly basis.  • Developed the user interfaces with Struts Tiles framework and HTML, JSP, JS to present Client side GUI.    Environment:  Java EE 5, Struts, Spring, Servlets, JSP,AJAX, HTML, Design Patterns, Tomcat 6.0, JDBC, CSS, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 10g Software Engineer Aditi Technologies - IN January 2012 to August 2012 Project: Employment Portal    Aditi technologies is a service based IT company, headquartered in Bellevue, Washington, United States with the largest  center in Bangalore, India  Employment Portal has been developed for one of the Education institute where both the applicants and HR would be able to access the application which provides registration and login pages where once logged in, both HR and applicants are  provided with different homepages and functionalities.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application as per the functional requirements from the analysts  • Designed complete SDLC for the website  • Implemented Ajax, JavaScript for the UI development  • Developed web screens in HTML and JSF.  • Designed, developed, debugged and tested the web based J2EE application.    Environment:  JSP 2.1, Servlets 2.5, J2EE 1.4, UML, Visio, Log4J, Hibernate, Spring, DB2, Windows Education Master's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, TECHNICAL SKILLS: Scripting Methodologies HTML5/XHTML, CSS3, XML 1.0, JavaScript Client/Server Architecture, Object Oriented 1.8, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS 1.5. Analysis & Design, Design patterns. RDBMS J2EE Technologies MySQL, Oracle 11g, DB2, MS SQL. Servlets 3.0, JSP 2.2, EJB 3.2, JDBC. Tools/Technologies Frameworks Eclipse MS Office 2003/2007, Log4J, Java,Kibana\ springboot, spring 2.X-4.X, Hibernate 3.X-4.X, Web Server, Maven 2.0\ Structs2, JSF Web/Application Servers Operating Systems Tomcat, Web Logic/Sphere Windows Variants Unit Testing Tools: JUnit 4.12. (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Scripting Methodologies  HTML5/XHTML, CSS3, XML 1.0, JavaScript Client/Server Architecture, Object Oriented  1.8, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS 1.5. Analysis & Design, Design patterns.    RDBMS J2EE Technologies  MySQL, Oracle 11g, DB2, MS SQL. Servlets 3.0, JSP 2.2, EJB 3.2, JDBC.  Tools/Technologies Frameworks  Eclipse MS Office 2003/2007, Log4J, Java,Kibana\ springboot, spring 2.X-4.X, Hibernate 3.X-4.X,  Web Server, Maven 2.0\ Structs2, JSF  Web/Application Servers Operating Systems  Tomcat, Web Logic/Sphere Windows Variants  Unit Testing Tools: JUnit 4.12.