Jr.Net Developer Consultants (Remote) Jr.Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Consultants (Remote) Jr.Net Developer Consultants (Remote) - EBay (PoPulus Group) Itasca, IL • Graduate of the Computer Science program of IETE New Delhi, India.  • Solved problems using data structures, algorithms, design patterns, and OOP skills.  • Collaborative leader who has completed complex projects through communication and coordination with teammates.  • Currently learning Java and an automation tool Selenium Web Driver using online training. Work Experience Jr.Net Developer Consultants (Remote) EBay (PoPulus Group) - Austin, TX April 2019 to Present Austin, Texas  • Improved company's software product by conferring with development team and fixing bugs.  • Designed and developed an application with Entity Framework, and ASP. NET  • Worked with testing team to perform unit testing and integration testing on the web application.  • Used ADO. NET and Entity Framework for retrieving, querying, and manipulating data in the database  • Involved in all the stages of SDLC and interacted with offshore team.  • Completely understand the importance of Quality of work in deliverables given to client. Software Tester Imex - Elk Grove Village, IL May 2018 to Present • Worked with technical teams to develop technical requirements and solutions.  • Implemented system security and data assurance software.  • Performed responsibilities of evaluating software programs and verifying quality testing.  • Executing the test cases and analyzing the results Software Tester Intern Imex - Glendale Heights, IL January 2017 to May 2018 • Updating test request and test data.  • Understanding and analyzing the test requirements.  • Performed end-to-end testing manually  • Worked as an intern initially till 2018 later got an offer to work as an employee in the same company. Skills Ado, Ajax, Asp, Asp.net, .net, C#, Microsoft .net, Wcf, jquery, Dot Additional Information • Four years' experience with .Net, two years' experience with C# and C.  • Student Developer of Hospital Management Project Using Asp.net.  • Microsoft .Net Framework, Microsoft Technologies ASP. NET, C#. NET, ADO. NET  • Advance Dot Net (Jquery, AJAX, Silver Light, LINQ, WCF)