Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - DIGITAL MANAGEMENT, INC Upper Marlboro, MD Work Experience Systems Administrator DIGITAL MANAGEMENT, INC - Washington, DC 2016 to Present • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs.  • Monitor and respond to hardware and software alarms (SCOM) using appropriate problem determination tools.  • Provide Tier III/other support per request to investigate and troubleshoot issues with peripheral devices, requested software and drivers.  • Configure, manage, and maintain printers, digital senders and other devices on both unclassified and classified systems.  • Respond to Remedy Incident tickets and generate change request tickets.  • Investigate and troubleshoot server and desktop issues  • Repair and recover from hardware or software failures. Systems Administrator DIGITAL MANAGEMENT, INC - Washington, DC 2014 to 2016 • Deliver Tier 2 desk side/remote service support and IT security to more than 6,000 users of both classified and unclassified systems.  • Troubleshoot and maintain network connectivity, security devices, printing, and drives.  • Diagnose, restore, and document mechanical, hardware, software, email, system failures and connection related issues.  • Restore, repair, or replace failed desktop computers and peripheral devices due to hardware or software failures.  • Image, configure, and install workstations, peripherals, application software and patches.  • Administer, maintain, and troubleshoot Windows Active Directory including user account management, computer objects, and GPO.  • Create user/group accounts and mailboxes, setup profiles and security permissions.  • Monitor, report, and resolve risk vulnerabilities on the network Systems Administrator PREFERRED SYSTEMS SOLUTIONS 2013 to 2013 • Upgraded desktop computers and laptops from Windows XP to Windows 7.  • Performed memory and hard drive upgrades in desktop cmputers.  • Responsible for PC setup and configurations for LAN.  • Diagnosed PC hardware and software issues. Systems Administrator COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION - Washington, DC 2006 to 2013 • Administered and maintained and troubleshoot issues related to over 600 Windows servers including Domain Controllers, Exchange, and file/print servers.  • Solve product and service problems related to backup or tape libraries, and media product. Schedule, perform, and monitor systems backups and recovery as needed.  • Provide Blackberry Enterprise Server Administration and Enterprise support to over 90 USAID Missions and Embassy locations internationally.  • Assist in installing and configuring Windows servers.  • Ensure operating system integrity by applying appropriate patches and releases.  • Troubleshoot and resolve software, hardware, and networking problems.  • Troubleshoot Active Directory; user account and DNS related issues. Systems Administrator COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION - Washington, DC 2004 to 2006 • Maintain and troubleshoot complex USAID Windows 2000 Active Directory forest consisting of 80 child domains and 189 domain controllers.  • Analyze equipment failures and prepare problem/solution reports for peers, management, and vendor analysis.  • Troubleshoot MS Exchange client/server access issues.  • Prepare and maintain the server maintenance on over 300 servers, including preparing the Emergency Recovery Disk and Defragmentation of all Windows 2000 and 2003 servers.  • Assist in building numerous Window 2000 and 2003 servers to Agency standards.  • Responsible for maintaining and updating the Antigen application to its optimum updated status. Systems Administrator COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION 1999 to 2004 1999 to 2004 Education Bachelor's in Computer Information & Systems Science University of the District of Columbia - Washington, DC May 1995 Skills Dns, Network administration, Tcp/ip, Tcp, Data backup, Technical support, Software troubleshooting, Migrations, Lan, Customer service, Training, System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security + March 2019