Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Mont Belvieu, TX Experienced System Administrator with 5 years of experience in Information Technology. Excellent reputation for resolving problems and contributing to overall operational improvements. Deployed Data Analytics/Reporting software and assisted in improving our Data Warehousing solution. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator JSC Federal Credit Union May 2014 to February 2019 • Test/Troubleshoot Software updates PC Deployments and PC management Server Deployments and Server Management Server Configuration Server Application installations and Server Upgrades Test/Troubleshoot Server Application Updates Tableau Data Analytics Software Analytics Report Creation Database Management Complex server/pc research for performance enhancement Vendor Coordination for new product deployments to servers and PCs.  • Standardized job tasks and trained junior team members on best practices and standards.  • Analyzed complex project server issues and worked on large enterprise and business-critical applications.  • Implemented, developed and tested installation and update of file servers, print servers and application servers in all departments.  • Resolved issues and escalated problems with knowledgeable support and quality service.  • Automated nightly batch using Active Batch scheduler and created nightly jobs for database backups.  • Oversaw IT activities to maintain operations by maintaining laptops, tablets and PCs for 275 users and over 100 windows servers  • Spearheaded inventory control measures to replenish and maintain IT equipment, supplies, tools and replacement parts.  • Orchestrated integration and communication of software upgrades.  • Created patches and solutions to fix bugs in existing applications.  • Developed and deployed Tableau reports from various databases to end users. Call Center Representative JSC Federal Credit Union May 2012 to August 2013 • Phone communication skill sets, and email etiquette.  • Improved memberships service capabilities. Computer/Switchboard/Telephone Technician training U.S. Marine Corps Reserves, Enlisted - 29 Palms, CA April 2007 to April 2013 • Operation Enduring Freedom/NATO driving trainer for Afghan National Police.  • Leadership and basic management training and experience on squad and platoon level.  • Honorable Discharge Education High school or equivalent Skills DATABASE, SQL, TABLEAU, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, VMWARE, System Administrator, System Admin Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/MRBarber Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant April 2007 to April 2013 MOS- 2847 communications tech Commendations: Joint Service Achievement medal, Sea Service Deployment medal, NATO medal-ISAF Afghanistan, Afghanistan Campaign medal Global War on Terrorism Service medal Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bl002h1md8opoivc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.