Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - AlphaHill, Inc • Cross-platform experience with Linux, virtual systems and AWS. Excellent customer support, communication, and problem solving skills as well as goal-driven achiever with strong organizational skills with strong attention to details. System Backup & Restoration.    CAREER HIGHLIGHT  • Effective combination of systems administration,  • System, Backup & Restore, Storage Administration,  • Linux OS & Virtual Environment,  • AWS and VPC Formation, IAM User management, EC2 Instances, EBS, S3  • Ability to work in a team environment,  • Strong initiative and drive with the ability to absorb technical information knowledge quickly,  • A highly motivated, innovative, and fast learner able to quickly adapt to new environments    TECHNOLOGIES  Platforms: Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 6/7, CentOS 6/7  Virtual: VMWare, AWS Work Experience Systems Administrator AlphaHill, Inc June 2017 to Present • Perform scheduled patching and tuning of enterprise OS.  • Create user accounts and modify as needed.  • General Red Hat Linux System administration, OS upgrades, security patching, troubleshooting and ensuring maximum performance and availability, Create new filesystems and troubleshoot for errors.  • Provide sudo access to privileged users.  • Optimize system performance by tracking daily system utilization, to determine if problems are imminent.  • Adding users, Groups and performing End day transactions and Backup on customer accounts  • Participate in activities as a member of the Linux System Administration team.  • Provide support to the development and testing teams as necessary,  • Plan and execute RPM and YUM packages and update installations necessary for optimal system performance  • Install and configure Apache and provide support on testing and production servers,  • Provide support to the team and participate in IT overall management and development.  • Deploying EC2 instances in AWS Cloud  • Manage cloud infrastructure running RHEL/Centos on AWS,  • Creating and managing VPC, IAM users, EC2 instances, EBS, S3. Jr Linux Administrator Sedetos Global Solution, Inc February 2015 to March 2017 • Create user accounts and modify as needed.  • Troubleshoot and resolve software and hardware problems, interface with vendor technical support to resolve problems and work with other technical staff on supporting their needs.  • Create and document temporary and permanent sudo permissions on several systems for teams and vendors.  • Implementation of SElinux, LVM, Swap Files  • Participate in activities as a member of the Linux System Administration team. Education BACHELOR'S OF SCIENCE in CRIMINAL JUSTICE Coppin State University - Baltimore, MD 2016 Skills Linux, Ebs, Ec2, Vm, Virtualization, Http Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Linux (RHEL) Enterprise, AWS, IAM, EC2, S3, EBS, Virtualization, VM Ware, HTTP, SSH, HTTPS.