Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Gibson, McAskill, & Crosby, LLP Hamburg, NY To succeed in an environment of growth and excellence and earn a job which provides me job satisfaction and self development and help me achieve personal as well as organizational goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Gibson, McAskill, & Crosby, LLP - Buffalo, NY August 2016 to Present Network Administrator Orchard Park Veterinary Medical Center February 2013 to August 2016 Administering to network of over 20 virtual servers, physical servers, 100 users, over 120 workstations, 20 ipads, 20 laptops, over 30 hp network printers, and over 30 dymo label printers in a 24/7 environment.  • Project lead on Data room re-cabling.  • Installed digital x-ray system with PACS server  • Installed digital laparoscopic system with PACS server  • Installed digital ultrasound system with PACS server  • Moved from software onsite to Saas  • Implemented Smart Flow sheet app onto mdm's  • Administer help desk software i.e. Spiceworks  • Recommend hardware and software to meet the organization's needs, as well as managing the rolling out of new equipment and systems, and ensuring that corrective and preventative measures are performed on existing equipment and systems Junior Network Administrator Orchard Park Veterinary Medical Center - Orchard Park, NY August 2012 to February 2013 Promoted to Senior Network Administrator after 6 months on the job.  • Main responsibilities included systems management, network security, upgrading network, monitoring network equipments, managing file servers.  • Respond to the needs, problems and suggestions as conveyed by the end users.  • Respond to requests for technical assistance in person, via phone, electronically  • Track and route problems and requests and document resolutions Education A.A.S. in Computer Repair Tech Erie Community College August 2010 to May 2012 Skills Active Directory (7 years), System Administrator, Vmware (4 years) Additional Information Skills:  • Windows server 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016  • vmware esxi server  • Windows XP, 7, 8, 10 Ubuntu  • vmware center server 5.1, vsphere client 5.1, vmware standalone converter, vmware workstation.  • Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Group Policy, print servers, smtp servers, file servers, Desktop Authority v.9  • HP p4000 SAN Central Management Console, HP BladeSystem OnBoard Administration  • Terminal Services, Citrix, RDP  • Maas 360 MDM (Mobile Device Management)  • Norton AV, eset AV  • Symantec Backup Exec System Recovery 2008, 2010  • Vivotek st7501 ip p.o.e. security cameras  • Google Domain admin, Gmail, Google Drive  • MS Office, Adobe Acrobat, Snagit  • PACS system(Picture Archiving Communication) onsite  • VOIP phone systems  Exchange Administrator, Office 365 Administrator  I have built my own hp lefthand san, configured RAID, installed esxi, and then connected thru vsphere client.  I have built physical servers and workstations, repaired physical pc's when necessary.  I have built and configured many virtual servers for vmware.