Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Elwood Staffing/Industrial Electronics Services Rogersville, TN Work Experience Systems Administrator Elwood Staffing/Industrial Electronics Services January 2019 to Present Coordinate end-user desktop support in a Windows 10 environment.  ? Perform maintenance with patches and updates on Windows 2012 Servers.  ? Monitor virtual machine environment through VMware vSphere Server.  ? Create end-user accounts through Active Directory.  ? Set-up and deployed temperature and humidity data loggers for the operations floor. Information Technology Specialist Isidore Design and Consulting June 2015 to July 2018 Coordinate end-user desktop support in a variety of Windows-based environments.  ? Implement upgrades on PCs and laptops, including hard drive upgrades and RAM installation.  ? Ensure remote support for clients to resolve ongoing issues.  ? Remove and isolate malware and viruses from end-user systems.  ? Install Windows Server 2012. Systems Operations Specialist First Community Bank of East Tennessee - East, Tennessee, US October 2013 to March 2015 Resolved issues in computer hardware, software, printing, installation, word processing, email and operating systems.  ? Reviewed system generated reports to reconcile conflicts.  ? Coordinated system administration, including active directory account management, end-user account creation, and network troubleshooting.  ? Provided customer service to bank customers with online banking account resets. Customer Service Representative Advanced Call Center Technologies - Johnson City, TN July 2013 to October 2013 Responded to constant flow of customer calls with up to 50 calls in queue per minute.  ? Defused volatile customer situations calmly and courteously.  ? Documented incidents accurately; researched and resolved customer service issues. Insurance Agent Bankers Life and Casualty Company - Johnson City, TN February 2012 to March 2013 Conducted annual reviews of existing policies to update information.  ? Met with prospective customers and business owners.  ? Calculated quotes and educated potential clients on insurance options.  ? Finalized sales and collected necessary deposits. Help Desk Technician Tele-Optics, Inc - Kingsport, TN July 2010 to July 2011 Provided end-user telephone and remote support as a Tier 1 technician.  ? Coordinated assigned duties according to IT guidelines.  ? Supported IBM, Dell and HP computers for end-users.  ? Provided troubleshooting for end-users on hardware and software issues.  ? Created and disabled end-user accounts on multiple active directories.  ? Worked in multiple ticketing systems for both employer and customer.  ? Isolated and removed viruses and malware; ordered and replaced hardware as needed. Tier 2 IS Technician TekSystems - Kingsport, TN January 2010 to July 2010 Ensured end-user support via telephone and remote software as well as on-site support.  ? Worked with end-users in troubleshooting hardware and software issues.  ? Ordered and installed replacement hardware for out of warranty systems and coordinated OEM vendor visits with end-users for in warranty work.  ? Created and disabled end-user accounts on multiple active directories.  ? Also coordinated the creation of AS400, e-mail and SharePoint accounts.  ? Oversaw Tier 2 IS ticketing queue and assigned tickets to appropriate technicians and groups. Senior Field Services Technician Electronic Data Systems (EDS)/Hewlett Packard - Kokomo, IN February 1995 to November 2009 Resolved computer hardware and software, printing, installation, word processing, email and operating systems issues.  ? Repaired and replaced hardware for HP and Lexmark printers.  ? Ordered necessary supplies and parts to repair malfunctioning hardware.  ? Restored data, operating systems, files, documents and drivers.  ? Remained up-to-date on the latest technologies and solutions to company products. Education AAS degree in Systems Administration Northeast State Community College - Blountville, TN Information Systems Indiana University at Kokomo - Kokomo, IN Skills Active Directory. (1 year), Architecture (Less than 1 year), customer service (1 year), RECEPTIONIST (1 year), RETAIL SALES (1 year) Additional Information Core Competencies  Customer Service Desktops & Laptops Internal Components File Transfers Mobile Data Devices  Windows Server Administration Active Directory IT Infrastructure IT Solution Architecture  Implementation Scripting & Automation Systems Security Backup Cloud Systems  Teambuilding Business Efficiencies Process Improvement Root Cause Analysis Troubleshooting  TCP/IP & WAN Communications Project Management Processes & Analysis Data Management