Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Aurora, IL Systems Administrator with 6 year of experience who holds a Masters of Information Systems focused on Cloud and System infrastructure while being a quick learner, detail-oriented, and well organized. Experienced in providing technical, networking and systems support using latest technologies. Strong interest include providing excellent customer service, facilitating methods of support using best practices, creation of documentation and improving team member's knowledge to supply the swiftest resolutions. Work Experience Systems Administrator HealthCare Associates Credit Union - Naperville, IL May 2018 to January 2019 Research and resolve processing errors, software, hardware, and end-user issues and provide advice and training to end-users  ? Increased Business Technology efficiency by 20% by quickly and effectively resolving outstanding department tickets and issues.  ? Create and maintain operating procedures and schedules.  ? Reduced internal support calls to Networking Team by 50% by following up on resolved tickets and monitoring systems performance  ? Use database management system software and tools to collect agreed performance statistics and to ensure that appropriate action is taken to investigate and resolve incidents in systems and service.  ? Participate on projects with a focus the transition from development staff to production staff by performing quality testing, documentation, and cross-training within the project life-cycle.  ? Identify and resolve issues with applications, automated tools, network scripts and group policies.  ? Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, systems, and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs.  ? Execute daily backup operations, ensuring all required file systems and system data are successfully backed up to the appropriate media and that the media is recycled and sent off site as necessary.  ? Test, deploy and update software including OS patches, application upgrades, and system tools.  ? Create, change, and remove network security and third-party access for end-users as requested by management.  ? Support data center environmental and monitoring equipment.  ? Audit computers for presence of virus protection and install and/or updates new virus software when appropriate.  ? Maintain batch jobs and programs in the financial core system.  ? Troubleshoot and correct connectivity issues over WAN, ATM, and VPN networks.  ? Participate in the development and implementation of network and software related procedures and standards.  ? Respond and leverage vendors for systems and network issues. Systems/Network Engineer ETS Technology Solutions - Lombard, IL July 2017 to December 2017 Worked for small IT consulting and solutions firm providing design, implementation and support for cloud based services, network & systems infrastructure throughout the Chicagoland area.  ? Supported customers by utilizing Labtech remote tools accessing workstations and server interfaces  ? Supported Citrix Xen App server environment  ? Diagnosed and resolved issues within Windows Server environment including Windows Server 2008 and 2012 R2  ? Worked with various backup technologies including Datto and Symantec, troubleshooting issues with daily backups and screenshot verifications for virtualization  ? Performed Office 365 Migration from On-premise Exchange server using Hybrid migration technics  ? Deployed and managed Sophos security Endpoint protection  ? Administered users in multiple environments using Office 365 and Exchange Online  ? Performed penetration test and security assessments to uncover risks and vulnerability in various environments using Qualys Information Security and Compliance  ? Reviewed various companies current state and suggested recommendation based on best practice Systems Support Engineer ConVergence Technologies - Burr Ridge, IL May 2016 to May 2017 Worked on a small systems team for a managed services provider supporting small to mid-sized businesses throughout the US in a fast paced, high volume environment, troubleshooting, maintaining, and securing Servers and end user devices.  ? Installed and monitored anti-virus and security risk assessment software  ? Responded and resolved security related issues involving network and systems applications  ? Deployment and management of Microsoft SCCM client  ? Testing and configuration of SPAM firewall for internal and External Emails  ? Creating, maintaining, and troubleshooting of VMware and virtualization tools  ? Troubleshooting of networks, systems and applications to identify and correct malfunctions Junior Systems Administrator Creative Werks - Bensenville, IL March 2015 to November 2015 Worked alongside Sr. System administrator, providing computing, and VoIP and network services.  ? Upgraded Server hardware (installing RAM, CPU, and racking newly acquired servers)  ? Assisted in Server Migration (upgrading, adding security patches, and placing software on new servers)  ? Administered end-user workstations and supported end-user activities  ? Created documentation for security policies and procedures  ? Break/fix of tablets, laptops, and desktops LAN/Application Support Technician Wheels Inc - Des Plaines, IL March 2014 to July 2014 Provided help desk and desktop support along with network administration and configurations as a part of the IT department.  ? Active Directory Administration (User creation and modification, Account password resets, and setting privileges)  ? Exchange Server 2010 Management (Mailbox creation and modification)  ? Day to day troubleshooting of user issues related to Windows 7, Outlook, Office, etc.  ? Imaging and deploying new Desktops and Laptops using Windows deployment services  ? Installing and configuration of SQL Server and Visual Studio management and development tools  ? Designing, configuring, installing, managing users, and creating Images and templates through vSphere Help Desk Technician ABS Associates Inc - Schaumburg, IL October 2012 to June 2013 Provided Help Desk Level 1 Support for multiple systems and organizations.  ? Remotely diagnosed computer related issues and resolved customer inquires  ? Preformed Day to day troubleshooting of user issues related to Windows 7, Outlook, Office, etc.  ? Configuration and troubleshooting of VPN and key fob applications IT Support Analyst DaVita-Village Health - Vernon Hills, IL June 2012 to September 2012 Work with small IT team performing computer-related repairs, upgrades, installations and providing on-site technical support.  ? Repaired and serviced onsite and remote PC and laptops including, imaging and rollout  ? Respond to requests for technical assistance by phone and email  ? Installed and configured office printers  ? Installed and troubleshoot internal applications Education Master of Information Systems in Information Security Robert Morris University - Chicago, IL Bachelor of Arts in Social Science Western Illinois University - Macomb, IL Associate of Applied Science in Information System Management Rasmussen College - Aurora, IL Skills Deployment (1 year), Exchange (Less than 1 year), virtualization (1 year), VMware (1 year), VPN (1 year), System Admin, Linux, Active Directory, System Administrator Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jamescyork