Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Annandale, VA Exceptional Network System Administrator with 4 years of experience in network installation, configuration, troubleshooting, and management. Expertise in network security analysis and wireless security with excellent client service skills. Currently possess a DoD Secret Security Clearance. Work Experience Systems Administrator United States Navy - Virginia Beach, VA April 2017 to Present a team of 8 personnel on the installation, operation, and maintenance of multiple network server's worth over $2M with 300 clients to ensure 99% readiness.  • Ensure compliance with security updates to reduce vulnerabilities.  • Monitor logs for suspicious activity and take action according to established protocols.  • Enforce safety and risk management practices resulting in zero safety violations during safety inspections.  • Awarded the Army Achievement Medal and the Navy Achievement Medal for management of an IT and maintenance team with zero downtime and zero vulnerabilities. Electronics Technician United States Navy - Norfolk, VA January 2014 to April 2017 • Served as the lead communication technician on electronic communications equipment for surface ship.  • Performed maintenance on cryptographic and communications equipment to maintain 100% uptime.  • Performed corrective maintenance using test equipment, schematics and block diagrams.  • Acquire and maintain extensive knowledge on equipment.  • Create and repair electronic cables and connectors using established procedures.  • Served as the lead calibration technician and ensured calibration of tools and test equipment to maintain communications gear. Sales and Service Specialist Bank of America - Falls Church, VA January 2013 to December 2013 • Open accounts and show customers how to access and manage their accounts  • Establish, retain and deepen relationships with branch customers and potential customers to achieve team sales goals and provide quality customer service  • Identify opportunities to refer a customer to teammate or specialist to discuss services and products  • Resolve service issues for consumer and business customers  • Ensure a high quality, meaningful, customer experience  • Process transactions accurately and efficiently to build customer confidence and trust, based on established policies and procedures Teller Bank of America - Falls Church, VA September 2011 to December 2012 • Explain and promote bank products and services to customers  • Assist customers with performing complex transactions  • Process high quantities of cash transactions including withdrawals and deposits  • Receive and verify loan payments and mortgage payments  • Comply with company policy and detect fraudulent activity  • Maintain knowledge of consumer products, account restrictions and fees  • Ensure transaction validity and integrity  • Awarded among top tellers in Falls Church District in third and fourth quarters Education Standard Degree Chantilly High School - Chantilly, VA 2010 A.S. Northern Virginia Community College - Annandale, VA Skills Networking, Troubleshooting, Maintenance, Microsoft Word, Active Directory, Security, MS Office, Vmware (4 years), Linux (4 years), Windows Server (4 years), System Admin, System Administrator, Linux Administrator Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: Petty Officer Second Class Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ March 2019 to March 2022 CompTIA Security+ July 2019 to July 2022