Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Fort Indiantown Gap, PA To secure a responsible and challenging position which offers opportunity for personal growth and potential for career advancement. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Summit Technologies, Inc April 2019 to Present • Operate conferencing equipment including scheduling audio/video conferences and coordinating the maintenance of this equipment.  • Install, configure, maintain, and troubleshoot all current and future Distance Learning systems (TVs, projectors, speakers, VTC systems, computers, etc) that are a part of the 11 Distance Learning sites to include the Mobile Distance Learning Classroom at any requested location within Pennsylvania upon request.  • Troubleshoot and identify any hardware and software issues for Distance Learning systems.  • Install all software updates necessary to ensure Distance Learning systems are patched to DoD standards. Work with the JGHQ-G6 Information Assurance (IA) team to scan systems and identify system vulnerabilities. Patch any identified vulnerabilities. Maintain an average Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS) score of 2.5 or lower for all Distance Learning systems.  • Process work requests for Distance Learning sites in the ticket management system and ensure all required information is collected and entered in that system. Provide a monthly report with status of all reported issues.  • Work with ticket management in order to ensure all required information is collected and entered into the tracking system.  • Identify and analyze technical problems with customer conferencing systems and work efficiently to solve the problems.  • Support the customer by performing updates, maintenance, and management of Distance Learning conferencing systems.   • Provide technical briefings and instruction for users of Distance Learning conferencing systems.  • Assist with completing contract deliverables and reports as needed by providing ticket resolution and system data.  • Provide a monthly report with status of all issues and tickets to the site lead.  • Analyze system malfunctions and implement corrective actions. PC Technician / Client Computing Penn State Health Milton S. Hershey Medical Center January 2019 to April 2019 • Technician imaging over 3,200 Windows 7 to Windows 10 systems and deployment of hardware.  • Experience utilizing IVANTI Desktop & Server Management to deploy software and operating systems, patch vulnerabilities, discover software and hardware assets, and manage Windows OS migrations.  • Conduct system administration updating computer data with the new location, building, department, user, and phone number.  • Receives requests for resolution of hardware or software problems  • Provide technical assistance so that LAN/WAN systems have few major disruptions.  • Install/maintains hardware devices supporting a broad range of information systems.  • Install/configure workstations or network operating systems, and application software.  • Capture, maintain, and track warranty data for fielded systems.  • Provide familiarization training for users of new equipment and software as required. Inventory Technician / Asset Management WellSpan Health Information Services September 2016 to July 2017 • Responsible for IT assets across 520 office locations as well as the relocation of client machines, including installation and configuration of equipment.  • Provide technical support and troubleshooting to network, desktop, and/or systems hardware and software.  • Act as a communication link between customers and internal support staff to assure accurate problem solving.  • Experience using Remedyforce, a ticket-management system, ensuring all required information was collected and kept up to date.  • Experience utilizing Symantec Altiris database for the location/disposal of IT assets.  • Completing tasks such as walkthroughs in buildings requiring cabling and networking or installation of printers, fax machines and phones. Satellite Communication Systems Operator-Maintainer US Army National Guard - Fort Indiantown Gap, PA December 2010 to December 2016 • Configuration of Cisco routers and switches.  • Use of satellite communication equipment and COMSEC devices.  • Perform tasks associated with stressed and unstressed network operations.  • Demonstrated willingness to learn multiple skill sets by cross-training with the CPN section.  • Ability to perform physically and mentally under pressure.  • Lead operator of STT displaying exceptional organization skills and time management.  • Prepared system and equipment related forms and reports. Education Vincent Hall School of Satellite Communications - Fort Gordon, GA October 2011 to June 2012 Diploma York Suburban High School - York, PA September 2007 to June 2011 Skills Vmware, Active Directory, SCCM Military Service Branch: United States National Guard Rank: Specialist Awards Army Achievement Medal 2013-04