Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Avon, IN Work Experience Systems Administrator AGS Capital, LLC - Indianapolis, IN April 2011 to May 2018 SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR AGS Capital LLC April 2011 to May 2018 • Configure, maintain, and upgrade multiple Windows domains. Windows server 2000, 2003, 2008 and 2012  • Configure, maintain and upgrade 60 + desktop systems across multiple domains and sites.  • Configure, deploy and maintain multiple domain Office 365 / Exchange accounts  • Configure, deploy and maintain various security video systems. CCTV / IP / DVR / NVR  • Configure Public / Private Wireless networks in mixed environments. Systems Engineer II Wishard Health Services - Indianapolis, IN September 2010 to January 2011 One of only 2 Trauma 1 Hospitals in the state of Indiana SYSTEMS ENGINEER II Wishard Health Services September 2010 to January 2011 The Systems Engineer II serves as a technical resource and ensures proper operations with regard to network architecture, planning, implementation, maintenance and problem resolution for all data resources within Wishard Health Services.  • Participates in planning, implementation, maintenance, monitoring and troubleshooting of all data resources.  • Creates and maintains all system, network or data resource documentation. Responsible for day-to-day operational activities of all systems, networks and data resources. Serves as primary technical resource and contact for security and access standards for requisite assigned engineering areas    **Took time off from September 2009 through January 2010 due to death in the family. IT Manager / Support Supervisor NORGREN INC - Littleton, CO 1981 to September 2009 One of the world's largest manufacturers of pneumatic and fluid control solutions. IT MANAGER/IT SUPPORT SUPERVISOR NORGREN INC 2006 to 2009 Spearheaded 8-member team across 10 locations in support operations for all technologies, including desktop, systems, telephone, and network infrastructure with control of IT budget. Drove analysis, troubleshooting, and resolution of system-related outages and issues, while controlling key hardware and software resources supporting file/print and network servers, routers and switches, PBX's, and other equipment. Oversaw distribution and management of wireless accounts and devices.    • As IT Support Supervisor, delivered long-term savings through creation and enforcement of policy banning use of old, inefficient servers for application development.  • Boosted Support team effectiveness through proactive encouragement of group communication and cohesiveness.  • Played key role in group development of an RFP to determine cost of outsourced vs. in-house Data Center - contributed to ultimate decision to remodel and maintain center within the company.  • Contributed to successful appeals to Management to invest in infrastructure and data center by contributing to Failure Mode and Effects analysis (FMEA) effort that assessed Data Center's protection and disaster recovery flaws.  • Maximized technology operations through expert direction of key enterprise initiatives, including Active Directory, network redesign, and core infrastructure projects. Reduced number of domain controllers by driving migration of all North Americas region to 1 domain (Windows Server 2003 AD), and prepared for a centralized Exchange Server in the UK.  • Partnered with Global IT group to institute vital desktop, server, and networking standards, and communication policies to technical support teams. USER SYSTEMS COORDINATOR NORGREN INC 1999 to 2006 Delivered assistance to both local and remote users, from evaluating and resolving hardware, software, and network issues and printer problems. Conducted systems imaging and deployment activities, as well as imaging/re-imaging of laptops and desktop computers. Ensured seamless transition of vital user data, configured and troubleshot remote connections, and protected remote user access via dial-in and vpn.    • Maximized spending by teaming with IT Director to establish a contract with Dell to purchase discounted hardware in bulk on a yearly basis, thereby reducing overall costs while maintaining hardware configurations.  • Boosted efficiency and cost-effectiveness by creating common images for each system, which expedited rollout processes and ensuring consistency of user experience.  • Ensured optimum technology operations to meet large-scale demands through oversight of LAN/WAN network on local campus and across Americas' offices, and by protecting connectivity to all global sites.  • Tapped to travel to England and serve on global team implementing a critical worldwide AT&T MPLS solution following CCNA certification.    CAREER NOTE: Previous roles with Norgren - Tool Grinder, Finished Goods Clerk, and Assembler. Education CCNA Community College of Aurora - Aurora, CO August 2001 to May 2002 Ball State University & Indiana University-Purdue University - Indianapolis, IN Skills EXCHANGE (10+ years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (10+ years), AUTOCAD (10+ years), BLACKBERRY (2 years), System Administrator (10+ years), System Admin (10+ years), BACKUP EXEC (8 years), Office 365 (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Desktop Operating Systems: Windows 9x / NT / XP /Vista / 7 / 8 / 8.1 / 10  I  Server Operating Systems: Windows NT / 2000 / 2003 / 2008 / 2012R2 Some Linux    Applications: MS Hyper V • MS Exchange • Lotus Notes • WSUS • MS Office Suites, Visio, Project •  AutoCAD • Solid Works • Blackberry Enterprise Server • Goodlink Server • MS Virtual Server  Active Directory (NT, 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012) • Cisco IOS • Trend • McAfee • Norton • Eset • Bit Defender • VmSphere • Citrix Management Console • Office 365 • Blue Iris • Backup Exec    Hardware: Cisco, HP, Dell, Netgear, Ubiquiti and TP Link switches and routers • HP and Dell Blade/Rack/Tower servers HP, Dell and IBM\Lenovo desktops and Laptops • Various makes and types of printers