Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Porter, TX ? Senior DoD Cleared Systems Engineer possessing 25 years of information technology experience.  ? Extensive experience with Windows, VMware Active Directory, Exchange, Unix/Linux and Server administration.  ? Responsible for the implementation, and maintenance of cross-platform data transfers (FTP) between NetWare, WINS, DNS, NT, Unix, and Mainframe platforms. Work Experience Systems Administrator Acclara Solutions, LLC November 2018 to Present November 2018 to Present    • Administer Windows 2008\2012\2016\2019 servers (approximately 100) mostly in a vSphere environment  • Monitor LAN using PRTG Network Monitor  • Also maintain onsite physical servers (Dell PowerEdge Rack Servers)  • Responsible for System Backups using Veeam as our backup solution  • Support niche application CUBS, a debt collection software in a UNIX environment. Also support Centrify, a middleware product that allows Windows Active Directory and Unix to communicate  • Install and configure Citrix Receiver 4.12 to allow our agents access to tools and applications our customers have available via remote client. (Web browser and Receiver interface)  • Support Polycom phone system  • Administer Active Directory services ensuring secure management of out LAN    KBR WYLE Subject Matter Expert US AIR FORCE - Wright-Patterson AFB, OH March 2017 to October 2018 Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, OH March 2017 to October 2018  eARMS (Electronic Access Request Management System) Subject Matter Expert  ? Maintain eARMS Servers and Application. eARMS is the vehicle by which supplies are ordered throughout the entire USAF.  ? Applications are housed on Windows 2012 R2 and 2008 R2 Servers. The Servers/Application have to maintain a 98% up time per Government metrics.  ? VM system engineering and administration with VMware ESXi 4.x/5.x hosting the virtual server infrastructure  ? Experienced with VMware Vshpere including: installing new host, creating virtual machines, and datastore creation and administration.  ? Also supported client-side (Windows XP, 7, 8 and 10) desktops/laptops.  ? Installation and imaging of devices  ? Work with AF customers to ensure supplies are delivered on time and that they can perform their jobs adequately on a daily basis. Consultant - Systems Engineer LEXIS NEXIS - Miamisburg, OH March 2016 to March 2017 Installed, configured, maintained and enhanced operating system and system support software/hardware Enterprise Linux 6.x, 5.x, 4.x troubleshooting hardware, operating system, applications & network problems and performance issues.  ? Deployed patches for Linux and Application Servers  ? RedHat Linux Kernel Tuning  ? Responsible for establishing, publishing and monitoring standard for configuring servers on different UNIX platforms.  ? Linux Kernel, memory upgrades and swaps area and performed Red Hat Linux Kickstart installations.  Implemented day-to-day tasks in RedHat Linux that include upgrading rpms, kernel, configuring SAN Disks, multipathing and LVM file system.  ? Built Linux Servers using VMWare ESX and VMWare ESXi.  ? P2V of all physical servers to ESXI 5.1 through 6.1  ? Implemented Kickstart for RedHat automated installations on VMWARE.  ? Data Center Engineer responsible for hardware installs, cabling (fiber and Cat6) and hardware/application monitoring.  ? Also performed patching and System Administration enterprise wide within a Windows Environment.    US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Sr. Unix Systems Engineer / Administrator III DEFENSE MANPOWER DATA CENTER June 2014 to March 2016 Worked on Building, administrating, monitoring and troubleshooting RHEL4.x/5.x/  ? Created VM instances using VMware/ESX on Linux and migrated applications from others servers.  Performing O/S and kernel upgrades on Linux servers.  ? Provide monitoring of virtual machine resource usage and manage virtual machines using VCenter  ? Troubleshot backup issues  ? Perform manual backups & restore using VERITAS Net Backup.  ? Installed and upgraded Redhat Linux, firmware, failed hardware and system support software  ? Troubleshot hardware, software and operating system related errors on Linux including hardware maintenance and upgrades.  ? Managed users for AIX and Linux Servers and assigned rights to access network resources.  ? Worked on SAN, NAS Storage configuration. NetBackup support for Unix and Linux systems patching and scanning Unix and Linux servers  ? Unix and Linux administration support  ? Columbus Ohio Data Center Support  ? Patching, setup and configuration of Windows 2008 and 2012 systems (Hardware and OS) Systems Engineer HONDA R&D AMERICAS July 2012 to July 2014 Responsible for Installing, configuring and maintenance of AIX 5.3, 6.1 & 7.1 on servers in production and test environment.  ? Responsible for the operation, maintenance and integrity of a distributed, Network UNIX based environment. Worked File systems management including file system corruption check in maintenance mode.  ? Worked to upgraded AIX servers, adding and removing hard drives to server using Logical Volume Manager (LVM) to create Volume Groups (VG) which were then partitioned into logical volumes  ? Experience to use of the NIM utilities to push out software maintenance and program fixes to the entire fleet of systems keeping the System software releases current and also applied Microcode/ Firmware upgrade.  ? Experience working in Firmware upgrade for Managed System.  ? Experience working in ITM updates on AIX servers in production and test environment. Experience working in moving storage system from NetApp to Hitachi Data system.  ? Set up and configure virtual resources virtual Ethernet, virtual SCSI, and virtual FC.  ? Worked on administration and maintenance of Red hat Linux.  ? Performed Servers consolidation and virtualization using VMware virtual infrastructure, VMware ESXi, Vcenter and VM tools.  ? Linux system performance monitoring, tuning and improving based on application requirements.  ? Responsible for all aspects of AIX System Administration and support for pSeries servers like P6-570, p550, p570, p595, p770. This includes OS installation and upgrade, OS problem resolution, OS fixes. Network Associate US AIR FORCE - Wright, TX May 2011 to July 2012 Hands on server/hardware maintenance and building servers for deployment. Patching using SCCM and SMS.  ? Monitoring the network and applications using AppManager and NetCOP. Working hardware/software tickets within Remedy.  ? Working with teams from other bases to ensure server availability/redundancy.  ? Used Dell Remote Console Switch and HP System Management Homepage to manage servers. Also administered SAV on over 800 servers from installation to definition updates.  ? Maintaining servers in a VMware environment. Backup and Restore using CommVault Systems Administrator CARGILL, INC September 2004 to May 2011 IT Team Lead for Dayton and Sidney facilities (Production Environments)  ? Use (Cisco) NAC to help assure network security (over 3000 remote and mobile users) Recognized as Subject Matter Expert for Active Directory Administration  ? Active Directory administration/User Setup/ Exchange and maintenance, including Group Policy, DNS, and SUS  ? Set up Active Directory users via Group Policy for up to 100 Software Applications (Windows Server 2003/ Windows Server 2008)  ? Software and Hardware Deployment using TCO parameters. (Total Cost of Ownership) Provided day to day backup and recovery operations to support business applications/ systems  ? Installed Citrix XenApp 7.6 (Component Installer And Installation Media (Third Party Components) on Windows servers  ? Network Administration and monitoring (HP Openview NNM/OVO), 7 network segments Incident/Problem Management up to and including Root Causing of original or ongoing issue  ? Used ITIL to Define Service Management within the Enterprise (Strategy, Transition, Operation and Improvement) Senior Analyst MEAD WESTVACO July 2002 to September 2004 Responsible for supporting Mead Westvaco's Manufacturing Execution Systems within a Help Desk environment  ? Maintain, Update and Create reports within relational databases using SQL 2000/2003 Implemented ITIL Standards (SLA's, Service Delivery and Service Support)  ? Used SMS for software deployment tool within the enterprise, Desktop Support  ? Platforms on which these applications reside are NT, Windows 2000/2003, Citrix MetaFrame (Application Delivery), Sun Solaris (Unix) Tech Associate HEWLETT PACKARD July 1998 to July 2002 Preformed Second Level Helpdesk/Desktop support for General Electric Aircraft Engines - 1st Shift Lead Support users using Appworx (Batch Scheduling) in a Unix Clustered environment (HA)  ? Introduced to the ITIL Framework (SLA's, Incident/Problem Management, Change Management and Root Cause)  ? Used FTP and Tarball to take many files and turn them into one larger file for distribution and archiving Duties included but not limited to handling all GEAE priority issues from a Desktop and Helpdesk perspective. Also was responsible for scheduled and unscheduled Change Management occurrences  ? Responsible for day to day backup and recovery operations to support business applications/ systems Provided Asset, Configuration, Network and Operations Management across the enterprise using HP OpenView tools. Lead Business Representative (Team Lead) GENERAL MOTORS - Moraine, OH July 1990 to June 1998 Monitoring, and troubleshooting plant floor tracking system of the GM Paint Facility within a Helpdesk environment  ? Supervised the construction of PSAM (Paint Shop Area Manager) training procedures and co-authored the accompanying training manual  ? Lead Trainer for this project  ? PSAM collected data from various PLC devices throughout the plants and stored this data within our VAX environment. (GE Fanuc, Allen-Bradley, etc)  ? Allowed GM workers to follow the progress of building trucks  ? Used Structured Query Language to generate reports for GM managers/executives Monitored plant floor using GE DECterm/Pathworks in a Data Center environment. Education DRS in Storage vMotion Virtual Centre Server 2012 to 2016