Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Lisec America Spring Lake Park, MN Work Experience Systems Administrator Lisec America December 2006 to Present • Design, configuration, and implementation of disaster recovery site and plans.  • Create, manage, and negotiate relationships with vendors and service suppliers.  • Hardware/software support for remote users, office servers, desktop and laptop computers. Including connectivity, application, operating system, and hardware issues.  • Active Directory and Group Policy administration.  • LAN/WAN Network administration with responsibility for connectivity.  • Purchasing and record keeping for, hardware, software, and related licensing. Consultant Lisec America September 2006 to December 2006 See above. Level 2 Analyst CDI Business Solutions March 2005 to September 2006 Ameriprise Contract) CDI Business Solutions  • Provides Level 2 technical desktop support for Ameriprise Financial Advisors.  • This support includes Identification, research, and resolution of technical problems and recurring issues related to PC desktops and Ameriprise proprietary software. Performing incident/problem management via incoming live calls and scheduled calls  • Hardware/software support for remote users, office servers, desktop and laptop computers. Including connectivity, application, operating system, and hardware issues.  • Subject Matter Expert for Client Data System application.  • Developed and updated accurate technical/procedural documentation and knowledge base data to be used by support personnel. Consultant (US Allianz Contract) ITR Group May 2004 to February 2005 • Facilitate and supervise Windows XP upgrade for both internal and external employees.  • Identify, troubleshoot, and resolve issues arising from upgrades.  • Troubleshoot and resolve VPN connectivity issues with remote users.  • Collect and catalog listing of software packages used by user and department.  • Prepare, submit, and track requests for software and hardware for new and existing employees.  • Prepare, submit, and track requests for changes to LAN access, e-mail distribution lists, and v-mail groups for new and existing employees. Com Analyst Best Buy October 2003 to April 2004 Contract) ITR Group  • Facilitate and supervise communication between support teams on varying severity issues.  • Monitor, track and assist on-call personnel in resolving of severity 1 and 2 issues  • Compile and publish daily statistics and daily activities reports.  • Create, review and update existing support documentation.  • Continual systematic and ad hoc monitoring/investigation of:  ? Website availability rates  ? Front-end functionality  ? Back-end functionality  ? Website functionality  ? Vendor performance System/Network Administrator UNCO Data Systems 2000 to 2001 • SCO UNIX and Windows NT/2000 System administration, including user account creation and management.  • LAN/WAN Network administration with responsibility for connectivity.  • Conversion of NT domain from NT4 to 2000 with Active Directory.  • Hardware/software support for store servers, office servers, and desktop computers.  • Preparation and installation of store servers, desktop computers, and in-store hardware.  • Solve everyday problems encountered concerning SCO UNIX, Windows 9x/NT/2000, LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, and Microsoft Office products.  • Responsible for daily and quarterly corporate backups.  • Implementation of Microsoft Proxy along with internet usage reporting.  • Implementation and administration of VPN and RAS.  • Reorganization of file shares to a three-tier system of varying user permissions.  • Maintenance and administration of MS Mail system and user accounts. Level 2 Analyst Tires Plus Corporate Office 1998 to 2000 • Sun Solaris and SCO UNIX System administration.  • LAN/ WAN Network administration with responsibility for connectivity, Ethernet and frame relay maintenance; also responsible for configuring of Cisco routers.  • Created intranet web pages using HTML and JavaScript.  • Built and configured company IIS intranet server.  • Hardware/software support for store servers, office servers, and desktop computers.  • Preparation and installation of store servers, desktop computers, and in-store hardware.  • Solve everyday problems encountered concerning Sun Solaris UNIX, SCO UNIX, PROGRESS, LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, Cisco routers and Citrix WinFrame issues.  • Creation and maintenance of how to documentation.  • Training and mentoring of new helpdesk staff.  • Correct end of day issues and reconciliation of the day's business for the corporate stores.  • Create end of day, backup error reports, and threshold monitoring reports.  • Completed Y2K testing in stores and corporate office. Education GED in industrial technology Edison High School - Minneapolis, MN 1990 to 1993 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), System Admin (10+ years), Vmware (8 years), System Administrator (10+ years), LAN (10+ years), WAN (10+ years), Windows Server (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Firewalls (10+ years), SAN (4 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years)