Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Data Analyst - Intelligence Systems Maintainer Integrator Voorhees, NJ MBA with major in Finances and IT, Security + certified professional with a four-year background in systems and network management, including hardware and software installation, troubleshooting and maintenance for the US Army Reserve. Experience with Windows Servers and Workstations, Linux, RHEL Servers, UNIX, VMware ESXi, vCenter and vSphere, DCGS-A, Cisco network devices, Electronic transmission and receiver systems, Digital Software-Defined Radios, Satellite Communications, Intermediate knowledge of Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript. Possess active federal TS/SCI with CI Poly security clearance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Lockheed Martin - King of Prussia, PA August 2018 to Present Maintain smooth operation of multi-user computer systems, including coordination with network administrators. Duties may include setting up administrator and service accounts, maintaining system documentation, tuning system performance, installing extensive system software and allocate mass storage space. Interacts with users and evaluates vendor products. Makes recommendations to purchase hardware and software, coordinates installation and provides backup recovery. Develops and monitors policies and standards for allocation related to the use of computing resources. Working with NISPOM, DISA, JSIG, and NIST 800-53, meeting the Risk Management Framework (RFM). Performing Tasks related to compliance of Continuous Monitoring (ConMon), Participate in reviews and technical inspections to identify and mitigate potential security weakness. experience with DoD proved security tools Intelligence Systems Integrator US Army Reserve - Blackwood, NJ 2014 to Present Work with servers (Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHLE), Windows 2008R2 Enterprise and Database), Client Operating Systems (Centos, Fedora, Ubuntu, Windows 7 & 10) Cisco firewalls, and network-integrated systems, installing and configuring new and actual hardware and software; perform repairs, and updates to the equipment in hardware and software. Conduct computers and servers backups, analyze system logs to audit and resolve problems that arise, and provide technical assistance and support to the military intelligence personnel and equipment. Oversaw local IT infrastructure including servers, security, networking, storage systems and desktops, ensuring to users 100% availability of the systems. Create and maintained databases with users accounts and network accounts (add/remove/update permissions in RHEL W2008R2), and software programs or applications, for the specific department needs. Use Kerberos and LDAP to integrate Windows and RHLE users authentication. Data Analyst Frontier Inc - Marlton, NJ January 2015 to June 2016 Use Army's SAP based system to run, export and download reports, to manipulate the data acquired through macros, vlook up, pivot tables, in MS Excel, in order to perform a detail analysis of the information acquired. Work on a system-posting logic methodology, to ensure the data on Army's SAP system was properly registered according to with the US Standard General Ledger (USSGL). Participates in efficiency analyses to enhance processes and workflows to include risk management, quality control and client service. Modeling flowcharts on MS Visio to analyze current client business processes, in order to analyze strengths and weaknesses to propose improvements or changes. Establishes and maintains strong and cooperative relationships with internal and external key contacts. Account Security Officer Hewlett-Packard Enterprise - Plano, TX August 2013 to August 2014 Assisted in the process of remediation of the Heartbeat and IE Vulnerabilities, analyzing the risks, guiding in the patching, and reviewing the solutions that emerge in the market. Delegated as America's Account Security Officer in different projects, in order to standardize globally the security processes for the Enterprise Services. Conducted IT risk assessments, and Collaborated with clients to provide recommendations about infrastructure and network security operations. Help analyzing and auditing the users access permissions in Linux and Windows, to guarantee each user have the correct access to the applications that users need to perform their job Petroleum Supply Specialist US Army, Active Duty 2010 to 2013 Coordinated, administered and forecasted the aviation fuel consumption of over 35 million gallons of JP8 annually. Supervised and audited adherence to safety re-fuels procedures of the Federal Aviation Authority and ensures compliance of an efficient, clean, and safe work environment, surpassing the US Army standards and Environmental Protection Agency. Receive, stock and account for more than 20,000 Gallons of petroleum, oils, and lubricants products assigned to the organization, on a monthly basis. Education Bachelor's in Security and Risk Analysis, Major in Cybersecurity Penn State - State College, PA January 2018 to Present A.A.S in Networking Technology Cochise College - Sierra Vista, AZ 2017 Certificate in Information Security Collin College - Frisco, TX 2014 MBA in Finance Metropolitan University - Orlando, FL 2010 B.S in Maritime Management and logistics Colombian Navy Academy 2000 Skills Visio (2 years), Vmware (2 years), Excel (5 years), Security (3 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Linux, Linux Administrator, Red Hat, SCCM, Redhat Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: Sargent Present Intelligence Syastems Maintainer Integrator Certifications/Licenses Security+ December 2016 to December 2022