Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Saint Paul, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Ryan Companies US, Inc. - Minneapolis, MN September 2018 to Present Primary contact for all SCCM related issues. Tier two help desk support for troubleshooting all hardware and software related issues involving technology.    ? Build and maintain all Windows images for machines for the company using SCCM.  ? Build and maintain all Windows based app packages for SCCM.  ? Maintain Windows 10 software patches and driver packages through SCCM.  ? Create and maintain HP hardware standards for the company involving laptops, workstations, and printers.  ? Create and maintain new workflows to help improve Support Center performance. Support Center Analyst Ryan Companies US, Inc. - Minneapolis, MN September 2015 to September 2018 Front line support for all printer, audio visual, and computer related issues. Primary concerns were supporting and maintain all jobsite and end users with standard equipment. All technology issues were recorded through Cherwell.      ? Create and manage all accounts using Active Directory and Office 365 Admin Center.   ? Build and maintain all Windows images for machines for the company using SCCM.   ? Build and maintain all Windows based app packages for SCCM.   ? Manage all Verizon and Apple devices via VMware Airwatch management tools.   ? Setup and manage all printers via Papercut services.   ? Manage all Toshiba Contracts throughout the company.  Technology Educational Support Professional Osseo Area Schools - ISD 279 - Osseo, MN September 2014 to June 2015 First contact for all technology related issues. This included all but not limited to mobile phones, iPads, computers, and A/V equipment. Primary concerts were supporting and maintain classrooms with district standard equipment. All technology issues were recorded through district internal ticketing system.       ? Maintain up-to-date database information for all student accounts using Active Directory.   ? Maintain all district owned iPads via Apple Configurator and Casper.   ? Enabled and supported Mobile based devices for email access.   ? Guided customers through installation, modifications, and support of software   ? Ticket Routing and support for level 2 technicians. Technology Support Technician Rockford Area Schools - Rockford, MN July 2011 to June 2014 First contact for all support of equipment within the district. Provided both onsite and over the phone support. Created and inventoried all A/V equipment within the district and redistributed it out to the necessary users. Maintained all district images and deployment tools. Setup and deployed Papercut print management software. Created and maintained Linux distribution and Fog deployment software. Worked with co-worker to virtualize all servers.     ? Use Windows Deployment Services and Deploy Studio to deploy images to user base systems.  ? Troubleshoot user accounts using Active Directory and Workgroup Manager.   ? Install and maintain print monitoring software for all district users.   ? Troubleshoot and repair Mac and PC related issues.  Technology Educational Support Professional Osseo Area Schools - Osseo, MN September 2010 to July 2011 First contact for all technology related issues. This included all but not limited to mobile phones, computers, and A/V equipment. Primary concerts were supporting and maintain classrooms with district standard equipment. All technology issues were recorded through district internal ticketing system.      ? Assist and support computer technology for staff and students.   ? Troubleshoot computer hardware problems.  Education Associate in Computer Electronics Engineering Technology Technical Institute - Eden Prairie, MN March 2012 Skills Desktop Support (10+ years), Help Desk (9 years), Ticketing (9 years), SCCM (2 years)