Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Lebanon, OR Looking to further career and experience in a warehouse setting. I can follow instructions well and I'm willing to learn from experienced co-workers. I'm able to adapt to new technologies and learn new company procedures. I want to find a company I can grow with and stay for with a long time. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Mollie Stone's Markets - San Francisco, CA February 2017 to August 2019 Setting up new items in Silver Creek software so they will scan at the stores. Checking for any new barcodes (UPC's) of incoming product. Sending daily reports of prices changes and total sales. Purchasing product daily for the deli, meat, processing departments orders. Updating the sales order board every morning to make sure the stores are being billed correctly for what they receive. Coordinating grocery deliveries at the warehouse. Managing the ordering menus in Silver Creek for each department. Ordering add-ons for stores from the produce market. Swing Warehouse Supervisor Veritable Vegetable May 2016 to February 2017 Provide for the daily supervision of warehouse staff to ensure safe, clean and efficient operation of a fresh organic produce warehouse while maintaining high quality product standards with minimal loss. Monitor and guide the work process throughout the shift to facilitate the accurate and timely completion of the work. Veritable Vegetable - San Francisco, CA April 2012 to February 2017 Started as warehouse worker and went to warehouse supervisor Late Swing Team Lead Veritable Vegetable February 2015 to May 2016 Liaison between swing and night crews. Setting up fills and post-wrap for late swing and night IC. Making sure anything not loaded earlier is accounted for later (examples: freight, pallets with a large fills, orders that are completely fills). Directing swing crew with what can be done that will help night crew if there is time. Working closely with Night IC to make sure we got all fills and add-ons correct. Communicating to Night IC what swing had mix ups with throughout the day, and anything else Night IC needs help with later in the night. Bobtail truck #1027 certified. Swing Team Lead Veritable Vegetable May 2014 to February 2015 Help run the floor to make sure all orders are pulled in a timely manner. Directing swing to the right places depending on the situation. Working with swing crew members to correct mistakes in order pulling and receiving. Drexel trained. Warehouse Worker Veritable Vegetable April 2012 to May 2014 Receive, rotate, and ship fresh produce. Pull and palletize customer orders. Unload and load trucks with forklift and pallet jack. Receive lead trained. Department Supervisor Babies'R'Us - Dublin, CA November 2009 to April 2012 In charge of keeping department up to company standards, taking care of guest issues that arise, doing planograms, merchandising product planned by company, correcting inventory counts in my department, and building new items. Store Receiving Specialist Babies'R'Us - Dublin, CA May 2009 to November 2009 Unloading delivery truck, sorting out boxes, pulling items from warehouse, stocking shelves, scanning items into warehouse, helping customers on the floor, processing returned defective items, receiving deliveries to store, doing all item walk, re-setting merchandise, and keeping the warehouse clean and organized Education Bachelor of Arts in Theory and Criticism San Francisco State University 2007 A.A. in San Francisco City College of San Francisco 2005 H.S. Diploma George Washington High School 2003 Skills Sales orders, Purchase orders, Forklift, Pallet jack, Stocking, System Administrator