Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Seattle Credit Union Normandy Park, WA To find an IT Support Specialist job that allows me the opportunity to learn new technologies, further develop my skillset and emphasize my passion for Information Technology while collaborating with others to exceed expectations. Work Experience Systems Administrator Seattle Credit Union - Seattle, WA January 2017 to Present Responsible for the provisioning, hardening and regular maintenance of core server systems related to IT Infrastructure and Security.  • Serve as primary System Administrator for Papercut Cloud Printing Platform, RightFax Enterprise Fax Manager (Enterprise Fax Server), and the configuration/programming for Shoretel Director (PBX) and Shoretel Enterprise Contact Center.  • Act as tier 2 support for any Desktop Support escalations relating to enterprise applications, network connectivity and end device configuration issues.  • Assist Server and Network Engineers in maintaining and configuring switches, routers, group policy settings, email/spam filter settings, firewall rules, Active Directory, File Servers, FTP Servers, Application Servers, DNS, DHCP Scopes, and Barracuda Backups.  • Responsible for maintaining the ongoing configuration of SolarWinds, our IT Management/Network Monitoring Platform  • Participated in after hours on call rotation to support critical systems during non-production hours.  • Experienced with updating, maintaining, building software packages and pushing them to end devices using LanDesk (Ivanti Enterprise Management Suite) also including the application of Windows and third party application patches.  • Administer the Office 365 Board Member Portal.  • Serve as first line of support for all security response incidents. Desktop Support Technician Seattle Credit Union - Seattle, WA November 2012 to January 2017 Responsible for onboarding/offboarding users, maintaining up to date system images, configuring, hardening, inventorying and deploying desktops, mobile devices, VOIP Phones, laptops and printers in an enterprise environment consisting of more 150 end users.  • Acted as first line of support for daily trouble tickets including issues relating to desktops, laptops, printers, mobile devices, SharePoint, conference rooms, network issues and Enterprise Software (Microsoft Office 2016, Skype for Business, Go2Meeting, Webex, TeamViewer, Shoretel Communicator, Shoretel Supervisor, Shoretel Agent, Papercut, Rightfax, Adobe Cloud, Adobe Acrobat etc).  • Participated in set up and tear down of audio/video equipment for corporate meetings, board meetings, end user training and member workshops.  • Ensured functionality and configuration of our phone system.  • In charge of assisting with the configuration and maintenance of DVR/NVR's and Alarm/HVAC system in collaboration with our Facilities Department.  • Responsible for maintaining knowledge base/documentation for ticket resolution and end user training guides. Solutions Center Intern PEMCO Insurance - Seattle, WA June 2012 to September 2012 • Assisted with Windows 7 deployment project including the configuration/device hardening, inventorying and ongoing maintenance of client end devices.  • Managed onboarding/offboarding of users and the configuration of their devices including desktops, laptops, printers, VOIP Phones as well as end user device migrations.  • Deployed departmental software packages using Systems Center Configuration Manager for development and production machines.  • Prepped AV Rooms for conferences, company meetings and events. Education Bachelor of Arts in Information Technology and Administrative Management in Specialty Central Washington University - Ellensburg, WA Associates of Applied Science in Specialty Renton Technical College - Renton, WA Skills Microsoft Office (4 years), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (4 years), MS OFFICE (4 years), phone system. (4 years), RightFax (6 years)