Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Information management systems association Work Experience Systems Administrator Information management systems association - San Francisco, CA February 2019 to Present • Maintain the security of the organization's technology infrastructure.  • Operate and manage the collaboration platforms using Webmail.  • Update and control the organization's website using WordPress. Expert Personal Shopper Instacart - San Francisco, CA December 2016 to Present • Shop for on-demand grocery service while fulfilling customer orders quickly and efficiently.  • Collaborate with grocery stores to ensure the delivery of high-quality service.  • Communicated with customers via telephone by recommending, selecting, and obtaining out-of-stock items.  • Consistently receive positive feedback from customers on performance reviews. Information Technology Summer Intern Advisory Cloud Inc - Novato, CA May 2019 to July 2019 • Managed over 150+ users via JAMF and G Suite  • Troubleshooted technical issues with desktop computers, laptops, network printers, scanners, and desk VOIP phones  • Implemented SPOKE software in order to provide a more efficient ticketing system  • Setup computers, VOIP phone systems, and monitors for new hires Active Member Commercial Real Estate Fellows Program September 2018 to May 2019 • Learned about commercial real estate principles and real-world applications through hands on projects.  • Attended professional development workshops and events designed for young professionals in the commercial real estate industry.  • Strengthened professional skills that are in demand including communication and problem solving skills. Education Business Administration San Francisco state university - San Francisco, CA August 2016 to May 2020 Skills C#, JAVASCRIPT, DATA ANALYSIS, MICROSOFT OFFICE Additional Information SKILLS    • Languages: English, Arabic (Proficient)  • Skill Sets: Microsoft Office, Computer Programs( C#, JavaScript), Proficient Typer, Data Analysis, Information Technology    AWARDS & ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  • Multiple Instacart number one shopper rankings of the week on leaderboard.  • Pisces-McCoy Scholarship - Recognizing academic performance and contributions to the spirit of community.  • Henry Ho Award - Achievement in mathematics and outstanding academic record.  • Ambrose-Pittsburg Lions Club Scholarship Award - Exemplary participation in service projects, vocational service, and extracurricular activities.