Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Washington, DC Well seasoned network and server administrator. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Partners International - Washington, DC 2019 to Present • Administered multiple Windows Server client domain environments ranging from Windows SBS, 2008r2, 2012, and 2016, active directory and group policy management for a managed service provider  • Administered client systems utilizing SolarWinds, Powershell, Azure AD, and Hyper-V.  • Managed multiple client Office 365 portals and Gsuite.  • Configured and supported various server hardware, Dell, Hp, and others.  • Configured and supported wifi networks.  • Configured and maintained necessary Meraki routers, switches, etc. for network integrity.  • Reviewed/created technical documents for internal procedures.  • Exceptional customer service skills and a calming support demeanor.  • Supported executive-level end users (CEOs and other VIPs) Systems Administrator / Network Engineer Assurance Technology - Mobile, AL 2015 to 2018 • Designed, deployed, and administered Linux and Microsoft servers primarily in a virtualization setting using VMWare ESXi and Citrix Xencenter  • Deployed and administered network attached storage system utilizing FreeNAS  • Managed offsite backup solution for clients using CDP  • Configured and supported wireless radio systems for p2p ISP (Ubiquiti, Mikrotik)  • Configured and maintained necessary routers, switches, etc. for network integrity  • Administered client domain servers utilizing Windows RDP environment, Spiceworks, OpenVAS, Bitdefender, MS Exchange  • Reviewed/created technical documents for internal and external use for all technical aspects of business and for marketing purposes  • Designed, deployed, and administered cloud storage utilizing Owncloud  • Designed and deployed company website  • Designed and implemented Network management through NAGIOS 4.2 Cost Engineer Ohmstede Industrial Services - Saint Gabriel, LA 2013 to 2014 St. Gabriel, Louisiana  Cost Control, Timekeeper (2013-2014)  Industrial craft cost controls and timekeeping for shutdowns/upgrades at large refineries.   • Utilized a multitude of proprietary and Microsoft-based programs to provide exceptional budget analysis.   • IT troubleshooting on site.   • Instituted updated work practices/programs to minimize budgetary overages.   • Managed site payroll and human resources of a (on average) 250-person crew.  Captain Calypso's Fire - Keys, FL 2011 to 2012 Successfully navigated a 32’ vessel from the Florida Keys to the Dominican Republic then returned to Mobile Bay. Performed all necessary navigation, seamanship, engineering, and operations as well as mechanical and electrical repairs.  IT Manager Technical Diagnostic Services - Fort Worth, TX 2005 to 2012 Managed the network for a midsize, multi-million dollar company with over 30 users. Responsible for administration/troubleshooting of all network hardware/software issues.  • Directed corporate relocation project overseeing: data migration, PBX, LAN infrastructure development, and all installation activities. Carried out vendor management for telecommunications, data, and security. Managed project budget  • Gained thorough knowledge/understanding of network architecture, OSI model, network communication troubleshooting, switches, routing, etc.  • Migrated entire organization and individual workstations from outdated Windows system to updated versions. Optimized all systems accordingly.  • Brought email from outside web hosting to in-house server side with implementation and management of Exchange Server 2003  • Implemented and managed Watchguard Firewall for network security  • Implemented and managed a total server backup system utilizing Symantec Backup Exec. as well as a disaster recovery program  • Designed and/or updated then maintained two company websites substantially increasing web traffic, directly leading to higher marketing and subsequent sales  • Became exceedingly proficient with: Active Directory Organization Units, workstation management, optimization and troubleshooting, Exchange email issues, the MS Office 2010 family environment, VPN's, firewall policies, website development, HTML, Dreamweaver, FLASH, and multiple photo image editing programs  • Upgraded entire company telephone system to a Nortel BCM50  • Managed voicemail and various telephony issues Financial Manager Strokemaster Tennis Group - Fort Worth, TX 2004 to 2004 Responsible for the entire financial side of a small company. Responsibilities included:  • Financial: A/R, A/P, billing/invoicing, insurance, estimates, proposals, etc.  • Administrative: customer service, filing, and computer network upkeep.  • Implemented and utilized QuickBooks accounting software. Building Engineer Dallas Summer Musicals - Dallas, TX 2002 to 2003 • Building systems maintenance including: HVAC, fire suppressant systems, elevator controls, electrical wiring, and plumbing.  • Maintained historical aspects of building as it pertained to Texas Historical Markers. Installation Technician Tek Sys - North Richland Hills, TX 2001 to 2002 Installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of SPRINT Communications Company's telecommunications network. Telecommunications Installation Lead EF&I - Carrollton, TX 1999 to 2001 • Managed a team of professionals in the installation of cable, power, and equipment within the Southwestern Bell Company (now AT&T) environment.  • Installed, wired, and tested various telecommunications equipment at Telecom Central Offices including POTS, coax, and fiber systems. 3rd Class Engineman United States Navy 1995 to 1999 Honorable Discharge at end of duty)  • Certified Electrical Plant Supervisor responsible for entire ships power system.  • Work Center Supervisor responsible for onboard fuel chemistry.  • Certified Water King for ship's steam system which included producing, maintaining, and high standard testing of the ship's waters.  • Organized/conducted continual education of subordinates in up-to-date theories and techniques regarding mechanical troubleshooting procedures.  • Responsible for full mission capability of propulsion plant machinery/support equipment.  • Conducted exceedingly technical fueling operations including various fuel safety tests and refueling of ships/helicopters. Education Certification University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX Skills Active Directory, Linux Administrator, System Administrator, Linux, System Admin, Vmware Military Service Branch: US NAVY Service Country: United States Rank: 3rd class petty officer Honorable Discharge at end of duty) • Certified Electrical Plant Supervisor responsible for entire ships power system. • Work Center Supervisor responsible for onboard fuel chemistry. • Certified Water King for ship's steam system which included producing, maintaining, and high standard testing of the ship's waters. • Organized/conducted continual education of subordinates in up-to-date theories and techniques regarding mechanical troubleshooting procedures. • Responsible for full mission capability of propulsion plant machinery/support equipment. • Conducted exceedingly technical fueling operations including various fuel safety tests and refueling of ships/helicopters.