Systems Administrator III <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> III Systems Administrator III Wixom, MI ? Complex document lifecycle management systems  ? Satisfy demands in a timely matter  ? Problem solving  ? Barcode document tracking  ? USPS address correction  ? Archival Systems  ? Application developer and customer training Work Experience Systems Administrator III BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD - Detroit, MI February 2012 to May 2016 • Team lead for print and mail operations  • Responsible for the accuracy of all documents, statements and checks.  • Transformed AFP legacy printing environment. Barcoded document tracking and address correction was incorporated. Consultant DPM CONSULTING SERVICES INC - Troy, MI July 2009 to February 2012 • Support print operations for Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan  • Mentor employees to support the printing environment.  • Develop informational reporting mechanisms Consultant RS SOFTWARE INC - Temple, TX April 2007 to July 2008 • Develop AFP resources to replace legacy PACBASE based invoicing system.  • Enhance the use of barcode technology. Senior Information Technician LOCKHEED MARTIN - Baltimore, MD July 2006 to December 2006 • Develop and implement a new IBM print architecture.  • Create system documentation for disaster recovery and recovery / restart. Consultant Crawford Technologies May 2001 to April 2006 5 YEAR SUMMARY (Independent Contracts) 05/01 - 04/06  Consultant for Crawford Technologies, Northern Trust Company, Wachovia Bank, State of New York, Pfizer  • Provide knowledge to enhance, support and debug data stream transformation products.  • Develop and deliver 'Proof of Concept' documentation to potential customers.  • Modify existing AFP source code to comply with vendor outsourcing requirements.  • Convert existing applications to comply with company merger requirements.  • Identify and eliminate duplicate hardware resources.  • Prepare existing software for migration from AIX to OS/390. Product Design Engineer ELIXIR TECHNOLOGIES - Ventura, CA April 2000 to May 2001 • Provide key design input to enhance AFP product performance.  • Support pre-sales team by developing 'Proof of Concept' documentation.  • Engage in Level II support when necessary.  • Provide product training to customers.  • Develop applications for customers that lack knowledge or ability, employing customer resources and designs.  • Rewrite outdated training documentation and develop meaningful examples that students can relate to. System Programmer IBM - Southfield, MI July 1987 to March 2000 • Support and manage multiple data centers.  • Test and confirm new releases of software before updating production environments.  • Deliver plans to combine data centers due to consolidation efforts mandated by IBM. Education Associate Skills Visual Basic .NET (VB.NET) (Less than 1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), Jcl (10+ years), SAS (10+ years), Scripting (Less than 1 year), SQL (6 years), Statistical analysis (10+ years), System management (10+ years), XML (Less than 1 year), Solimar Solution Products (6 years), AFP (Advanced Function Printing) (10+ years), Barcoding (7 years), Java (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Visual Studio (2 years)