Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Orlando, FL Work Experience Systems Administrator Castalia Systems - Pensacola, FL September 2018 to Present ?       Provide Windows computer hardware and software system administration for DHS National CyberSecurity Protection System domain computers and external laptops for 650+ users through ticketing agent.  Responsible for continuous documentation and corrective action of information assurance vulnerabilities and implementation solutions through patch management in Altiris, WSUS, and Windows image security policy editing.   ?        System Admin support roles include creating user accounts, adding users to groups distribution lists/security groups and changing and unlocking passwords and accounts.   Responsible for Windows Image creation, server deployment and replication through MDT. Provides updated STIG, SCAP, registry, local and group policy edits for IA compliance. Create/edit SOP’s for Administrator and user procedures on computers, servers, and domains. Cryptologic Technician Maintenance US Navy - San Diego, CA July 1998 to August 2018 -SIGINT system administrator responsible for MS Server 2008, Windows 7 clients, and COTS Red Hat Linux servers. Performed weekly backups, user admin, and database maintenance.    -COMSEC custodian and training administrator for six accounts maintaining 100% accountability and standards for 350 line items in accordance with NSA directives and policy.     -Lead training administrator for 40 employees, accountable for DoD Information Assurance Technology Cyber Security Workforce (CSWF) standards and NSA directives and policy.     -Administered cryptologic and information security training for supervisors, managers and directors via on-site presentations and webinars to provide cyber system capability training. Education Associate in Computer Information Systems Excelsior College - Albany, NY January 2017 to Present Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, Linux, Red Hat, Redhat, Linux Administrator, COMSEC, Tactical Systems Maintenance and Installatin, SCCM Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E6