Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II Coppell, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator II Petro-Hunt, LLC - Dallas, TX April 2017 to Present Continue all tasks from SCCM/Sys Admin position  Maintain VMware ESXi Environment  Setup VM templates and custom deployment settings  Maintain Exchange 2010 and 2016 servers  Migrate from Exchange 2010 to Office 365  Manage Cisco Ironport for mailflow and antispam  Set up new Cisco Ironport ESA virtual appliances and keep them up to date  Implement DMARC/DKIM along with forged email detection filtering  Maintain backups with Veeam Backup & Replication / VeeamAgent  Maintain SRM DR plan  Research and recommend server refresh path with cost per year analysis and pros/cons with Proof-of-Concepts  Clean up AD security, migrating from anything goes to AGDLP (IGDLP)  Set up PureStorage array and R720 Dell server  Setup Storage Spaces Direct on Dell R820s with LSI SAS cards for a test/proof of concept infrastructure  Migrate VPN from Cisco AnyConnect on ASA to Microsoft RRAS and NPS.  Implement Azure MFA  Setup Azure Proxies for multiple websites  Migrate all users from on-prem home & department drives to OneDrive and SharePoint Online  Setup Secure RDS farm with RD-Gateway for access to SCADA network  Setup and configure Meraki networking appliances  Setup corporate wifi using Meraki, RADIUS and EAP-TLS  Create Powershell scripts to automate processes.  Use various APIs to automate tasks including ticket creation and resolution for record keeping  Migrate from EMC to Simplivity hardware for main infrastructure. SCCM/ System Administrator Petro-Hunt, LLC - Dallas, TX July 2016 to April 2017 Manage/maintain software distribution, security updates, standard OSD images and standard desktop software  Prioritize and coordinate security patches and software testing schedules/distributions  Created packages, collections and advertisements for distributions  Setup Microsoft Bitlocker Administration and Monitoring(MBAM) and coordinated its deployment  Created a Windows 10 vCurrentBranch image that implemented MBAM using UDI to allow for customization  Created a Windows 10 vCurrentBranch upgrade task sequence and managed its deployment to the enterprise  This upgrades to W10 and updates BIOS, applications and sets up MBAM if the device is a laptop  Manage SolarWinds Orion and implemented Alert Central for better accountability and resolution  Researched and procured a USB whitelisting software that was then deployed via SCCM  Use Cisco Unified CM Console 10.5.1 and Cisco Unity Connection Administration 10.5.1 to add new phones, edit existing phones, create voice mails, reset voicemail PINs, create fax lines, and other misc tasks.  Manage website for Petro-Hunt and Purity Oilfield Services.  Continued to perform Desktop Support Role as needed SCCM Administrator Petro-Hunt, LLC - Dallas, TX February 2015 to July 2016 All Helpdesk job functions included with promotion  Set up Highly Available RDS servers and maintain applications installed on them  Plan, setup and deploy a fresh SCCM 2012 R2 SP1 build including:   A Primary Site, multiple Distribution Points (PXE Enabled), FSP, Software Updates.  Set up boundaries, boundary groups and Device Collections  A custom UDI Task Sequence with multiple domains and computer name based on site  Maintain standard images, drivers, BIOS updates, Applications and Packages  Create and test new Applications and Packages for deployment  Create custom reports for needed data  Test, build and deploy Windows 7/10 Enterprise image with Office 2013/2016 (Wipe-and-reload as well as in-place upgrade)  Upgrade to SCCM vCurrent Branch (v1511, v1602, v1610, v1703)  Use Powershell and Powershell App Deployment Toolkit to create packages to deploy with SCCM  Setup WDS and MDT, including building new images/task sequences, adding applications, adding drivers and all other tasks related to WDS/MDT.  Setup WSUS, GPO for WSUS and manage workstation updates.  Provide support to Desktop Support Techs and Helpdesk for escalated issues.  Create and manage mailboxes, conference rooms, distributions lists and outside mail contacts in Exchange 2010 & 2016.  Use Group Policy to push out software to the Enterprise, deploy printers and other misc. tasks.  Manage print server, add printers, drivers and troubleshoot spooler errors.  Set up Cisco 8811, 8841 and 8851 IP phones and side-cars, Create line template, reset voicemail pins, instruct new users on speed dial setup and general usage.  Set up Plantronics wireless headsets on 8841/8851 phones.  Use Cisco Unified CM Console 10.5.1 and Cisco Unity Connection Administration 10.5.1 to add new phones, edit existing phones, create voice mails, reset voicemail PINs, create fax lines, and other misc tasks.  Deploy operating system images, scripts and batch processes.  Replace and upgrade desktops / laptops for assigned locations.  Install, configure and support all desktop/laptop computers and accessories.  Backup, migrate and restore user profiles, associated documents and server/network connections.  Manage website for subsidiary, Purity Oilfield Services.  Provide excellent customer service to all employees. Desktop Support Technician Level 2 Petro-Hunt, LLC - Dallas, TX September 2014 to February 2015 Receive calls and provide solutions over the phone as the first line of support.  Create new tickets and manage ticket queue for dept., escalating when necessary.  Create and manage user accounts in Active Directory.  Create user accounts in Docvue  Use P2 Excalibur to manage processes, forms, printers, print queue and other misc. tasks  Manage report subscriptions with SQL Server Reporting on SQL 2008R2  Assess and fix problems via GoToAssist (remote desktop) and track support tickets via ManageEngine.  Manage various printer toner ordering, replacement and printer service calls.  Retrieve backup tape box and swap backup tape daily.  Migrate user data from old iPhone/Android to new iPhone/Android (incl. activation and transfers)  Provide a weekly report on current project status, related problems and suggestions.  Provide excellent customer service to all employees.  On January 16th, Petro-Hunt, LLC moved locations.  From 1601 Elm St #3400, Dallas, TX 75201 to 2101 Cedar Springs Rd #600, Dallas, TX 75201  Finding and ordering cables needed for each new dual monitor workstation setup  Mounting monitors on VESA mounts, mounting arms and cable management  Setup Cisco 8841/8851 phones and Plantronics wireless headsets  Connected all computer/laptops/docking stations  Main point of contact for other IT employees  Answered any questions to the best of my ability and escalated when necessary  Questions relating to cable connections, computer placement and device setup  Moved roughly 150-160 users Desktop Analyst Level 2 Kemper Corporate Services, Inc - Dallas, TX August 2014 to September 2014 Call to schedule computer migration or replacement with on-site and off-site/remote users.  Use SCCM to push software and image PCs.  Deploy operating system images, scripts and batch processes.  Replace and upgrade desktops / laptops from Windows XP to Windows 7 for assigned locations.  Install, configure and support all desktop/laptop computers and accessories.  Backup, migrate and restore user profiles, associated documents and server/network connections.  Assess and fix problems via Dameware (remote desktop) and track support tickets via Heat.  Provide a weekly report on current project status, related problems and suggestions.  Provide excellent customer service to all employees. Desktop Services Level 2 Broadridge Financial Solutions - Edgewood, NY November 2013 to July 2014 Call to schedule computer migration or replacement with on-site and off-site/remote users.  Use SCCM to push software, image PCs and provide remote assistance.  Deploy operating system images, scripts and batch processes.  Replace and upgrade desktops/ laptops from Windows XP to Windows 7 for assigned locations.  Install, configure and support all desktop/laptop computers and accessories.  Backup, migrate and restore user profiles, associated documents and server/network connections.  Assess and fix problems via Remote Desktop and track support tickets via Remedy.  Provide a weekly report on current project status, related problems and suggestions.  Create detailed instructions for various processes and software installs.  Provide excellent customer service to all employees. Desktop Technical Support Level 2 Mayo Clinic - Mankato, MN March 2013 to August 2013 Deploy operating system images, scripts and batch processes.  Provide excellent customer service to over 3,500 employees within the health system.  Replace and upgrade desktops and laptops from Windows XP to Windows 7 for assigned locations.  Install, configure and support all desktop and laptop computers and accessories.  Backup, migrate and restore user profiles, associated documents and server/network connections.  Assess and fix problems via Remote Desktop and track support tickets via Heat.  Partake in off-hour/weekend support as needed to ensure corporate deadlines are met.  Help various teams with troubleshooting newly deployed scripts and forward any problems or suggestions.  Work with vendors, making sure everything works correctly after the conversion from XP to Windows 7. Web Developer thephphub.com January 2005 Maintain understanding of current web technologies or programming practices through continuing education, reading, participation in workshops, or groups.  Advise client on the limitations of systems and website functionality.  Develop website map and page template that meet project goals and user needs.  Use HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, PHP and MySQL to develop client website from the ground up.  Evaluate and test code to ensure it is valid, properly structured, meets industry standards, and is compatible with browsers, devices or operating systems.  Maintain website, create new content and fix any issues that arrive after deployment. Education BA (Incomplete) in Game Design Collins College - Tempe, AZ July 2007 to April 2008 High school diploma Medford High School - Medford, NY 2007 Skills Acrobat (10+ years), Cisco (4 years), Citrix (4 years), Dreamweaver (10+ years), Encryption (4 years), Exchange Server (2 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), SCCM (5 years), Windows Server (4 years), Photoshop (10+ years), Powershell, Veeam, Vmware Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/chuckyivey http://www.thephphub.com Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional November 2014 License #: F126-6334 MCSA: Windows 7 December 2015 License #: F126-6335 MCTS: Windows 7, Configuration December 2014 License #: F052-1570 MCITP: Enterprise Desktop Support Technician on Windows 7 December 2014 License #: F126-6337 MCSA: Windows Server 2012 R2 May 2016 License #: F679-4549 MCSE: Productivity April 2017 License#: G076-9151 MCSA: Windows Server 2016 July 2019 License #: H194-9736 Additional Information • Microsoft: MS Office Suite 2003-2016, O365, Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8/8.1, 10, SCCM 2012-vCurrentBranch (1806+), SCEP, RDS, Direct Access, Exchange 2010-2016, Windows Server 2000-2016, RSAT Tools, IIS, Azure AD, Azure Proxies, Azure MFA, Intune, Windows Analytics, SQL 2008-2016, Powershell automation  • Networking: Knowledge of wireless networks and devices, TCP/IP, VMPS, VPN, Patch and Punch cables, Meraki networking setup and use.  • Adobe products: Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Premiere, Acrobat and Flash  • Software: Norton Ghost, DameWare, LanSweeper, VMWare, Citrix, GoToAssist, Kofax 7.5 & 10.1, Cisco Unified CM Console 10.5.1 and various Anti-Virus and Malware programs.  • Encryption software: Symantec Endpoint Encryption, Bitlocker (with MBAM), McAfee  • Ticketing systems: Heat, Remedy, ManageEngine, Spiceworks, Samanage, FreshDesk, FreshService  • Other: Web design, WordPress, Laravel, PHP, HTML5, MySQL, MSSQL, Unity, C#