Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Fiber Industries Florence, SC Work Experience Systems Administrator Fiber Industries - Darlington, SC November 2017 to Present • Developing and administrating and administrating the IT systems of a startup manufacturing company and refurbishing an old plant  • Installed all new systems installed and supported including active directory and file server desktop infrastructure. New network switching and Wi-Fi devices and fiber optic backbone.  • Administering office 365 and other software licensing. Avaya hosted ip phone system. Manage all telecommunication vendors. Mange all mobile devices  • Procure, configure, and assign all user PCs and laptops.  • Network and server support for Rockwell Automation PlantPax manufacturing system.  • Providing general IT support for other systems and staff. Network\ Systems Administrator System Center - Johnsonville, SC July 2011 to November 2017 SC  ? Developed and maintained IT systems for multiple site mixed Windows-Unix office and manufacturing environment. Main job function is modernizing from a PBX / hub / Server 2003 environment to a switched gigabit, virtualized, hybrid cloud infrastructure. Upgraded from 2003 exchange to a 2010 midstep then a hybrid office 365 installation.Collaborated with Business Development team in evaluating and analyzing potential investment opportunities.  ? Complete Network Design and installation (Layer 2 & 3) Including design of Aruba WIFI, SSL VPN, and site-to-site infrastructure. Responsiable for information security, setting policy and implementation. Designing, installing, configuring, and maintaining Windows 2012 Active Directory infrastructure and related systems (Exchange, SQL, System Center, IIS). Developed Desktop images for deployment (windows 7 & 10). Installed and managed storage arrays (EMC Compellent and Dell Equallogic). Mobile Device migration from Blackberry to Android, IOS ActiveSync. Trouble shooting and upgrading existing legacy manufacturing equipment (serial terminal, proprietary wireless, etc ).  ? Developing integrated systems using commodity hardware and open source software to provide required functionality for manufacturing and warehouse systems. Designed as a replacement for HP 700 terminals, Raspberry Pi using a customized Debian image, with substantial cost savings over commercially available thin clients. Level 3 administration and support for systems, provide afterhours support when needed. Provide engineering team with network support. Support Specialist Mcleod Regional Health Center - Florence, SC 2011 to 2011 Provide support for users across multiple sites including an after-hours rotation shift. Responsible for PC software/hardware support, printers, scanners, and various special purpose computer equipment i.e. (X-ray displays, time card readers, medication dispensers, etc.) Use Clonezilla for image distribution. Systems Analyst Wellman Inc - Darlington, SC 2008 to 2010 • Managed a network consisting of desktops/laptops (MS XP), thin clients, VMUs (mobile PCs), Cisco switches/APs, and HP servers (MS Server2003) spread across three sites in a 7x24 hour manufacturing and office environment.  • Duties include managing the help desk staff, and resolving any problems that need to be escalated with record keeping within Remedy ticket system. Network administration duties involving the initial configuration and deployment of Cisco routers switches and wireless access points, and troubleshooting any infrastructure related problems.  • Deployed SolarWinds Orion, Snort IDS, and Open NMS for network monitoring, analysis, and optimization. Server deployments and maintenance including terminal server, application server, SQL servers and domain controllers. MS SharePoint administrator. Active Directory Group policy administration. Created desktop images for deployment using Ghostcaster.  • Anti-Virus administration using Symantec enterprise. Patch management using WSUS, and Shavlik. Administration of plant security systems including the RIFD badge system, RSA Radius server and Cisco ADS server. CITRIX administration. User account administration for MS active directory and VAX VMS. Create, monitor, and administer Virtual Machines on ESX 3.5 server with High availability. Backup administration using Backup Exec, responsible for tape rotation and disaster recovery planning. Prepare configuration management records to comply with their yearly Sarbanes-Oxley audits. Equipment lease management, and spare part procurement. In addition to regular hours provide 24-hour coverage on a rotating on call shift in a team environment. Technician Assistant RNI Technology - Florence, SC 1999 to 2001 Assisted the programmers and technicians. Database maintenance and material procurement Helped to assemble and test security boards used in Nuclear Power Plants Technician Assistant Mecca Inc - Florence, SC 1995 to 1999 Office work, database work, database validation testing, helped in assembling and configuring demonstration systems as well as staging full system deliveries. Helped design and installed office LAN systems. Skills active directory (10+ years), exchange (6 years), IIS (6 years), INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES (6 years), SQL (9 years)