Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Orlando, FL Forward thinking and self-motivated technology leader with over 20 years of experience providing integration, technology services management and problem-solving across different industries. An enthusiastic and pragmatic leader who enjoys to face IT infrastructures and networks challenges through diagnosing, deployment and management of teams, budgets, products and solutions. Fluent in Spanish Work Experience Systems Administrator TransGas de Occidente Orlando /Contractor/Work Remotely April 2019 to Present Managing and remotely support from Orlando FL to Bogotá to the IT infrastructure deployed to ensuring stability, integrity of data and continuity of business maintaining the same Systems admin rol through an outsourced team on site. Systems Administrator TransGas de Occidente - Bogotá, Cundinamarca 2002 to March 2019 TransGas de Occidente operates one of the largest natural gas pipelines in Colombia.    • Managed IT infrastructure Installing and configures servers and operating systems, doing testing, upgrades, apply patches, manages file system and monitors performance to ensure the stability and integrity.  • Managed the security area maintaining and monitoring status Anti-virus systems, Backups and Recovery systems, policies and rules on firewalls and the other alternate systems around physical security through its admin tools.  • Managed IT resources, branches, users and outsourcing personnel supported by suitable suppliers and proper IT contract handling fulfilling the assigned budget reporting to the Operations Director.  • Ensure the up-date of documentation and support to Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Plan process and testing it to have a systems that can be restored in event of failure.  • Documented procedures about policies to systems access and support the appropriate use of IT resources and services. Also attend help desk incidents when reported.  • Sized, budgeted and deployed the technological platform upgrade from older versions of Windows to MS Hyper-V, including the entire servers' virtualization and based on SAN storage solution.  • Managed the systems deployment for ERP SAP by sizing and ensuring the timely coordination of IT resources, installing and configuring software with vendor, as well as data integration needs.  • Performed the unification of the Corporate and SCADA networks applying the government's IT Regulatory concepts and segmenting its services to logical and physical level using perimeter security under NIST standards for both networks reducing operational costs and improvement IT managing resources.  • Managed the process to connect remote branches across the country with headquarters in Bogotá by implementing fiber channels and extending e-mail, IP Voice Cisco, and other corporate services. Network Admin Consultant Aqueduct of Bogotá - Bogotá, Cundinamarca 2001 to 2002 Managed Novell 5.0 network by assigning the right access to users of company to databases, programs, net printers and servers according to authorized requirements by different areas on a network with around 1,000 users.  • Managed Lotus Domino e-mail servers ensuring optimum performance through right users and services managing and hardware resources assignment applying Manufacturers' guidelines Network Admin, Lotus Development IBM - Bogotá, Cundinamarca 1999 to 2001 Managed Lotus Domino e-mail servers on Windows NT servers, communications and computing infrastructure for Bogotá's branch.  • Deployed testing environments and performed testing and installation for the Lotus products on sale process to Lotus' prospects. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Universidad Externado de Colombia - Bogotá, Cundinamarca 2014 Universidad Católica de Colombia - Bogotá, Cundinamarca 2001 Skills Exchange and Office 365 (6 years), MS Hyper-V Azure (6 years), Windows Servers Administration (10+ years), TCP/IP Routing and Switching (10+ years), AD, DNS, DHCP and Group Policy Administration (10+ years), VMware Admin (1 year), Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity (10+ years), SCADA Systems (10+ years), Lotus/Domino (4 years), Firewall-Perimetral Security (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses ITIL V3 Foundation September 2014 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • MS Hyper-V • AD Admin • VMware Admin • Exchange and Office 365 • Windows Server administration  • Group Policy administration • Knowledge of routing/switching and TCP/IP protocols