Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Technical Service Engineer - DataSoft Technologies Jacksonville, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator The HCI Group - Jacksonville, FL May 2019 to Present • Interacting with the Service Delivery Manager, Sales, the customer, and on-site support staff  • Must attend regularly scheduled customer meetings to keep the customer informed of activities and progress  • Must answer customer inquiries concerning system software versions, product lifecycles, new releases, and relevant third-party applications  • Maintain the HPC systems availability to the customer, but also create and document procedures, system diagrams, and other CMDB and technical support documents  • Maintain system software and firmware revisions, including patches, updates, and OS upgrades  • Assist in solving system hardware, software, and third-party software issues, and provide detailed and thoughtful analysis of problem and solution  • Gather data, perform analysis, resolve and escalate problems to third party suppliers, product support groups and executive management when necessary to ensure timely resolution of service or customer issues  • Determine solutions and implement repair or workarounds when possible, fully documenting steps taken when required  • Create knowledge articles, documenting best practices and sharing troubleshooting procedures to foster both client and organizational knowledge  • Manage software issues for both the system and user applications, submitting and tracking bugs as required Technical Service Engineer DataSoft Technologies - Jacksonville, FL November 2018 to Present • Personally-selected to create an Active Directory solution to extract reports for sanitized assets, Move/Disable/Delete the associated Computer Objects, complete with verbose logging.  • Identify, develop and document operational processes and procedures for the IT Asset Management Team  • Handle installations, upgrades, testing, configuration and/or maintenance for assigned systems and equipment.  • Provide guidance to customers on function, usage, and operation of IT products and services.  • Troubleshoot and resolve issues and participate on special projects as assigned.  • Accountable for research, design, selection, implementation and deployment of technology products and services to meet business needs.  • Handle complex, non-routine and escalated systems administration tickets and tasks.  • Monitor systems and perform maintenance and provisioning support for hardware, such as telecommunication equipment, printers, software and video/audio equipment as assigned.  • Gather and analyze business requirements to recommend existing design technology solutions that will meet business needs which may include changing or modifying existing systems or researching vendor solutions.  • Responsible for implementation and deployment of technology design including troubleshooting/resolving issues and developing procedures and documentation.  • Assist other IT areas supporting issues on infrastructure devices.  • Troubleshoot and repair hardware and software issues according to documented procedures.  • Ensure accurate asset management and tracking.  • Provide backup helpdesk support as needed.  • Lead or participate in projects and initiatives as assigned.  • Support and participate in Disaster Recovery initiatives. System Administrator Zeneth Technology Partners - Washington, DC January 2018 to August 2018 • Active Directory - Recommend Group Policy Changes; Create/Move Computer Objects  • Increase the Patch Team productivity and automated repetitive tasks through PowerShell and Batch scripting.  • Define and implement hardware and software configuration management processes and procedures.  • Develop hardware and software version control processes, policies and procedures and ensures that they are followed all SCCM projects. Service Desk Technician West-Ward Pharmaceuticals - Columbus, OH March 2016 to July 2017 • Active Directory - Unlock Accounts; Disable Accounts; Reset Passwords  • Image/Re-Image Windows-Based computers in accordance with outlined procedures and guidelines  • Install and troubleshoot network printers (HP, Canon, Ricoh, Zebra, Brother, Dell, Samsung)  • Specifically selected to support the local, national, and international upper-echelon executives  • Provide level 2/3 support in a (physical/virtual) hybrid environment Desktop Support Specialist Columbus, OH July 2015 to February 2016 • Active Directory - Unlock Accounts; Disable Accounts; Reset Passwords  • Troubleshoot and resolve a wide range of software, hardware and network issues  • Accurately log tickets, and effectively transition and escalate unresolved problems when required Service Desk Technician Enterprise Integration - Jacksonville, FL December 2013 to September 2014 • Active Directory - Create Accounts; Unlock Accounts; Disable Accounts; Reset Passwords  • Specifically selected to act as the IT Subject Matter Expert for a local client  • Provide level 2/3 support in a (physical/virtual) hybrid environment  • Provide timely updates to internal teams as well as business/stakeholder communications on issues reported Desktop Support Specialist Merrill Lynch - Jacksonville, FL April 2007 to May 2008 • Provide support for mobile devices including iOS and Android devices.  • Provide timely updates to internal teams as well as business/stakeholder communications on issues reported Education Associate Degree in Computer Information Science in Computer Information Science Everest University - Jacksonville, FL June 2007 Skills .net (2 years), Bmc (3 years), C+ (Less than 1 year), scripting. (3 years), Service desk (10+ years), Powershell (3 years), Active Directory (5 years), ITAM (3 years), ITSM (3 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), SCCM (2 years), Power BI (1 year), Sharepoint (2 years), Windows 7 (10+ years), Windows 10 (3 years), Citrix (5 years), Batch (5 years), Visual Basic (Less than 1 year), Salesforce (1 year), Service Now (1 year), Servers (3 years) Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 January 2014 to Present Assessments Technical Support — Familiar April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jfz850h-uzzb8i3g Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/72hehd2lnfi7eqxv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.