Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Lexington, MA Technical Implementation and Support Engineer position requiring creativity and teamwork in a challenging and rewarding environment Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Boston EMS - Boston, MA 2011 to Present Office 365, VMware, MS Server farm (2012-16), Citrix, Symantec Endpoint Security, effective provisioning, installation/configuration, operation, and maintenance of systems hardware, software and related infrastructure.  ? Handle the deployment of new servers for redundancy.  ? Perform hardware and software setup and maintenance on Dell PowerEdge and HP NetServer servers, including replacing defective parts.  ? Setup and troubleshoot various handheld mobile devices such as Blackberry, Droid, Palm, IPhone.  ? Install, upgrade and configure network printing, AD directory structures, users access, email access, Symantec Endpoint security software.  ? Answered and completed Helpdesk calls and emails, supporting over 500 users. Systems Administrator Insulet Corporation - Bedford, MA 2008 to 2011 Performed all levels of hardware and software systems support for four hundred computers and sixty servers  ? Provided Desktop Support to three hundred users across USA, China and Singapore  ? Created user guides and conducted hire training sessions.  ? Setup a remote support system for remote users  ? Successfully developed and maintained business relationships with multiple vendors  ? Managed and orgainized Verizon wireless accounts, thereby helping to reduce costs for the company.  ? Cisco Unity and Cisco Call Manager  ? Document overall network design utilizing Visio, Power point, Word and One Note.  ? Maintained DNS server Senior Desktop IT Specialist Insight (Bose) - Stow, MA 2007 to 2008 Provided software and hardware support to nine hundred users  ? Handled PC imaging with Ghost, installation and administration (Lenovo, Dell, Lexmark, HP)  ? Supported eight hundred servers' migration project for a Data center move. Customer Service Engineer Fujitsu Inc - Boston, MA 2004 to 2007 Provided onsite or over the phone support to retail customers  ? Equipment supported includes servers, workstations, terminals, laptops, printers, routers, switches, hand held devices, time clocks and wireless devices (POS by NCR, IBM, Fujitsu) Data Field Technician Net Versant Corporation - Boston, MA 2000 to 2004 • Installed, configured voice/data networks and other telecommunications and network resources Education MS in Computer Science Kiev State University - ???? 1989 to 1994 Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS  ? Extensive experience providing diagnostics, repair, and maintenance services for servers, desktop and laptop computers (IBM, Compaq/HP, Dell, Acer) and printers (HP, Minolta, Lexmark)  ? LAN/WAN  ? MS Exchange 2003/2007, BES 5.0 Server, VMware VSphere, Symantec BackupExec, Citrix/XenApp, Helpdesk Systems (Remedy, Help Desk)  ? Desktop Support, systems imaging and software deployment Acronis, Ghost. Encryption, PGP  ? Windows 2000/XP/7  ? DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP, UDP  ? IBM RS6000