Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Helping people and technology work better together, and riding to the rescue as necessary Shelton, CT ITIL trained Problem Manager and experienced Systems Administrator, entrusted to administer highest level security access, wide skill set including documentation, automation, AGILE change management. I want to apply my skills and 11 years experience in IT to a positive environment focused on growth and success. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Freepoint Commodities - Stamford, CT May 2018 to Present DevOps/ Systems Administrator specializing in project management, automation and Linux-based technologies    • Led efforts to formalize use of JIRA for change management and workload tracking, created specialized workflows, worked with management to customize reporting  • Used python to automate a workstation P2V backup solution around VMware Converter, transparent coordination with Tech Support.  • Led establishment of a workstation-failover process involving USB boot-sticks connecting to P2V workstation backups at remote site  • VMWare PowerCLI used to create tools for automated greenfield migrations of 400 virtual servers   • Used bash scripting to automate management of backup config XML files and optimize backup-migrations for 400 virtual servers  • Brought an environment of 60 RHEL VM’s under centralized control, planned transition to management under Red Hat Satellite  • AWS API used to create network security audits, resource reports, manage tagging and snapshots  • Solarwinds used to monitor hybrid cloud/on-premise environment, experience leveraging SQL database to implement large changes efficiently and generate custom reporting  • Built Grafana dashboards to replace clunky SolarWinds displays  • Varonis used to monitor NetApp file share activity, experience leveraging SQL database to implement large changes and generate custom reporting  • Used Elastic search for syslog monitoring Cloud ITIL Manager Datto Backup Inc - Norwalk, CT January 2012 to April 2018 Cloud Problem Manager, Internal IT Team Lead, Cloud Systems Administrator, Datacenter Operations and Administration, Development and Documentation  Skills applied:  • Implementing ITIL Problem Management to organize incident information gathering from support and map it to known issues, feature requests or proposed process changes throughout the company, specializing in Datto's Disaster Recovery Cloud product.  • Managing and maintaining Zendesk ticket workflows, integrating sharing hub-spoke agreements, automations, triggers, macros and tags into procedural mechanisms for processing and logging Technical Support requests.  • Tableau for ticket/workflow metrics analysis  • Zabbix, Kibana and rsyslog for cloud-wide system logging and monitoring  • Led development of PHP scripting to tie command-line ZFS data management back to Zendesk ticket documentation and workflows  • Linux routing tables and OpenVPN for managing connections to and between Cloud Virtual environments  • Virtualization experience: VirtualBox and vboxmanage command line, VMWare, vSphere, VMWare Converter, vmkfstools command line, advanced VMDK image manipulation, KVM command line, using ISCSI and NFS SAN storage implementations.  • Advanced implementations for ZFS and Zpool storage management, pioneered procedural applications of the technology in the context of optimizing incremental backup management and disaster recovery.  • Incremental backup-agent software deployments  • Experience using Git and Jira systems for change management  • Ubuntu as an all-purpose cloud storage server and recovery-virtualization platform    Work History:    • Started in a Technical Support Engineer role, numerous accomplishments developing resolutions to common problems with the product, and developing manual procedures to implement them  • Assigned to administration of documentation resources after 6 months and led efforts to overhaul both internal and client-facing Knowledge Base.  • Promoted to Cloud Operations role as a Systems Administrator after 10 months  • Took on ITIL/ITSM modeled Problem Management role  • Regarded as a subject matter expert in ZFS, linux command-line and Virtual Machine Restoration – regularly volunteered time to teach classes on these subjects  • Coordinated with development managers to initiate projects for remediation of issues and product improvement  • Developed and implement solutions for running large virtualization environments and reliable and expedited production-site recovery  • Implemented internal data security and access controls as part of a major 2017 roll-out of access levels for technical support staff. IT Supervisor Towers Watson Corporation - Woodbridge, CT January 2011 to January 2012 Information Technology Support Analyst, Data Center Operations and Administration, VOIP Conferencing  Work History:  • Datacenter design and operations - Dell and HP rack servers consoled through ILO.  • Network design and troubleshooting - Cisco routers, firewalls and load balancers.  • Major Datacenter move and overnight operational reinstatement of working office and call center network and phone systems.  • Organizing post-acquisition integration, desktop distribution and orientation  • Entrusted access to systems management.  • Managing IT communications to client management.  • Researched, developed and maintained linux-based SIP/VOIP Conferencing system, manage backups, billing and Call Detail Reporting.  • Executing QA and administering change-management systems  • MSSQL and Batch scripting.  • Worked on Web site development, MSSQL, MYSQL, PHP, Microsoft Excel, Windows Vista/7/Server 2003, Open Office, Ubuntu and CentOS. IT Engineer Aliquant Corporation - Milford, CT September 2007 to December 2010 Note: Towers Watson acquired Aliquant on Jan. 1, 2011  Health Benefits Outsourcing and Data Management.  Information Technology and Data Center Operations  • Datacenter design and operations - Dell and HP rack servers consoled through ILO.  • Network design and troubleshooting - Cisco and Netgear equipment.  • Research, develop, implement and maintain SNORT Intrusion Detection System.  • Composing and editing procedural and technical documentation for server setups, MSSQL, batch scripted backup schemes, Web application monitoring and Intrusion Detection Systems.  • Research and implement operational efficiency measures and improvements.  • Work with FTP, MSSQL, PHP, Microsoft Excel, Windows Vista/7/Server 2003-2008, Open Office, Asterisk, SNORT, Ubuntu and CentOS. Technical Support Engineer DelTech LLC - Ridgefield, CT April 2005 to August 2005 Home PC Technical help, troubleshooting and repair.  • Composing and editing troubleshooting procedural documentation.  • Execute troubleshooting and full reload procedures on designated client machines. Education BA in English Secondary focus in Information Technology Skills OPERATIONS (10+ years), DOCUMENTATION (9 years), LINUX (6 years), SOLUTIONS (5 years), VIRTUAL MACHINE (5 years), Network Administration, Strategic Planning, Customer Service, Vmware, Disaster Recovery, SQL, HTML, Cisco, Active Directory, IT Management, VoIP Certifications/Licenses CCNA SCRUM Master CompTIA Cloud+ ITIL Foundations Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/evqqsvmf0c-cn-e4 Data Analysis — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/a-x9xvqilcr7b27m Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  • Obtained Cisco Networking Associate certification in November 2011 - certifications obtained in 2016 include ITIL Foundations, SCRUM Master and CompTia Cloud+.  • Experienced IT Operations professional with broad expertise in networking and storage management for secure data applications.  • Experienced in Bash and PHP scripting for data management and data analysis applications  • Software Used: DRScout Remote Backup imaging, MSSQL, FTP, Windows XP/Vista/7/Server 2003/server2008/ Open Office, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Powerpoint, PHP, HTML, Java, CSS, OpenVPN, VirtualBox and vboxmanage command line, VMWare, vSphere, VMWare Converter, and vmkfstools command line, ShadowProtect and ShadowSnap backup software, xshell for SSH connections, rsync, testdisk, vssadmin. Camtasia Studio for video recording,  • Familiar Systems: Windows, Ubuntu, CentOS, ESXi 4.1 through 5.1, ZFS  • Experience using Git and Jira systems for change management, configuration and management of Nagios, Monitis, and similar alerting systems.  • Virtual Machine configuration, migration and conversion between most popular hypervisors - Hyper-V, VMWare, VirtualBox, Xen and KVM.  • UCONN English Major, excellent reading, writing and communication skills.  • 10 years experience working in trusted positions with Datacenter hardware and administrative systems access.  • Experienced in researching, developing and operating office and organizational IT solutions.  • Comprehensive experience developing and implementing data storage and backup, intrusion detection, and telecommunications solutions.  • Extensive experience working with Virtual Machines within and between Hyper-V, VMWare, VirtualBox, KVM and Xen environments.  • Extensive experience administering a linux-based cloud environment.  • Extensive experience troubleshooting backups and disaster recoveries for Windows servers.  • Extensive experience authoring documentation and conducting training class sessions on many IT topics.  • Extensive experience maintaining IT affairs communications with client technical teams and corporate level management. Highly experienced in communicating between technical levels to coordinate troubleshooting and project management.