Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - SavATree Inc Poughkeepsie, NY A versatile and skilled individual with leadership qualities obtaining an information technology position utilizing my hands-on educational training and professional work experience. Work Experience Systems Administrator SavATree Inc - Bedford Hills, NY September 2018 to Present 40 Remote locations, ~1200 employees  • Technical support attended for all user, network, systems, and communication hardware and software.  • Information Technology Lead & On-Premises System Integrator for Merger & Acquisition team.  • Configured an OpenNMS server for network and system monitoring.  • Installed UniFi Cameras and FreeNAS system for site surveillance.  • Established AP and Guest network management and monitoring with UniFi integration.  • Installed Clonezilla system for system deployment, backup, and recovery.  • Integrate remote locations to VOIP network services.  • Create standard work and apply best practices for the Helpdesk and Infrastructure departments. Help Desk Analyst Central National-Gottesman - Purchase, NY June 2014 to August 2018 38 Remote locations, ~1900 employees  • Hardware and software technical support attended for computers, devices, printers, servers, and telecommunications.  • Manage print servers, ipMonitor, Crashplan, devices on 4 carriers, ordering of new equipment, inventory/asset tagging, backup tapes, loaned equipment.  • Manage Help Desk ticket system ServiceDeskPlus by assigning tickets and following up on all open tickets in the Help Desk and Infrastructure que before SLA violations.  • Assist on infrastructure facility moves and acquired facilities.  • Monitor all sites uptime, backups, SCCM deployments, and Endpoint definitions.  • CBT Nuggets: VM vSphere, CCNA, Project Management, ITIL, ITIL CSI, PowerShell, etc  • Microsoft Technology Associate: Cloud Fundamentals (G351-3508)  • Create SOP documentation for Helpdesk and Infrastructure. Help Desk Technician SavATree Inc - Bedford Hills, NY July 2012 to June 2014 26 Remote locations, ~600 employees  • Hardware and software technical support attended for computers, cell phones, tablets, thin clients, servers, modems, firewalls, routers, navigation devices and telecommunication phones.  • Inventory all I.T. related products (~300 phone numbers, static addresses etc )  • 24/7 365 emergency response for all major issues.  • Documentation, 5s, and continuous improvement of all I.T. related items. Computer/Field Technician - Lead Field Technician - Assistant Manager I.T.S at S.U.N.Y. Cobleskill - Cobleskill, NY August 2009 to July 2012 • Technical Support for state and personal computers/devices on campus  • Managed technician hours and trained new technicians.  • Update database inventory of state-owned computers Education Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology State University of New York at Cobleskill - Cobleskill, NY May 2012 Skills Vpn, Active directory, Android, Voip, Mpls, Linux, Imaging, Telecommunications, Wiring, Analog, Lotus notes Additional Information TECHNICAL  SKILLS    Operating Systems  • Proficient with Windows operating systems, and basic knowledge of Linux distributions.    Network/Admin  • Knowledgeable with network configuration/troubleshooting, Active Directory, SCCM, VPN, remote assistance, and MPLS/WAN networks, with familiarity of configuring switches and servers. Proficient with VOIP, Digital, Analog telecommunications, and wiring.    End User  • Exceptional with Office Suite and Lotus Notes, installation of hardware/software, windows imaging, and Android devices. Familiar with Adobe suite products, security, and IBM emulators. Great communication skills with a passion for computers, electronics, and continuous learning.