Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - DMI/ESM FT Mead Glen Burnie, MD I am a Unix/Linx Systems Administrator with a top-secret clearance adjudicated August 2018. I have experience planning and scheduling installation of new or modified hardware, operating systems and applications software.  I have managed accounts, network rights, and system access.    Languages  And Work Experience Systems Administrator DMI/ESM FT Mead March 2014 to Present • Deploy and sustain various Element and Network Management Systems applications (EMS / NMS) in support of the Defense Information Systems Network (DISN) Operation Support System (OSS) enclave  • Provided technical assistance for support and administration of databases and software systems.  • Suggested processes for installation and updating of database applications and system software.  • Conduct and document system operational verification and testing (SOVT) to ensure proper system operation and validation of operational requirements  • Lead a major operating systems project, e.g., installation of new operating environments or implementation of new operating systems patches, upgrades, and releases.  • Develop policies, procedures, and strategies that ensure optimization and integration in the installation, configuration, and maintenance of the operating environment.  • Provide authoritative advice, as part of mission planning, to other specialists in areas such as disaster recovery, capacity planning, applications development, hardware strategy, and operating systems security.  • Consult with developers or vendors in defining requirements and identifying integration issues; oversee installation, customization, testing, and implementation of the operating environment.  • Work with vendor software engineers to correct problems and enhance performance.  • Evaluate the impact of new and proposed applications on DISA (Defense Information System Authority) wide operating environment; and recommend changes to ensure the functionality and stability of the operating environment. Database Design/ Systems Analyst eGourmet Solutions - Philadelphia, PA September 2013 to February 2014 • Developed SAP system from the ground up to client specifications.  • Extensive configuration and installation of SAP modules WM &MM.  • Analyzed supply (MM) and financial (FICO) data in SAP to determine overall quantitative and monetary requirements for supplies, equipment funded, ordered, received, stocked, and issued.  • Analyzed user requirements, procedures and problems to improve existing systems. By developing ad-hoc and scheduled reports to be delivered to the customer and management.  • Translated functional requirements into technical specifications. Property Database Designer Lockheed Martin - Aberdeen, MD June 2012 to September 2013 • Developed database solutions and structural requirements by defining both physical structure and functional capabilities.  • Developed operational requirements for new systems, including warranty support, repair requirements, provisioning techniques, and follow-on support.  • Maintained surveillance over initial and follow-on support programs to ensure compliance with logistic plans.  • Developed database solutions by designing proposed system.  • Provided presentations of cost analysis results to advisory council and stakeholders. SAP Configuration Specialist Abeam, Lexington, KT March 2012 to June 2012 • Constructed SAP databases to meet clients specifications; included report writing, custom queries, and proper data import/export.  • Senior SAP consultant developed process planning and process mapping of ERP logistics systems. Mapped As-Is-To Be system requirements for Implementations.  • Created a high-level design of an end-to-end integration solutions by defining data flow, mapping business process and drafting a data objects.  • Configuration and installation of PP, PM, & WM modules.  • Lead team of SAP developers.. Information Manager Surgical Services University of Ark Medical Services - Little Rock, AR December 2010 to March 2012 • Lead team responsible for security of patient and hospital databases.  • Responsible for the daily operations as well as analyzing daily workflow, establishing department priorities, the development of standard practices and setting department deadlines.  • Gave daily assignments and reviewed work of IT department.  • Implemented cost reduction programs saving the department 1.5 million dollars.  • Reduced departments operation cost, which resulted in a $500,000 credit from company vendors. SAP Consultant SAP Instructional Developers - Pine Bluff, AR June 2010 to December 2010 • Contracted to convert existing Legacy system over to SAP.  • Responsible for the installation and configurations of SAP modules WM, MM, Fi/Co and SD.  • Preemptively identified any possible concerns during SAP implementation and devised realistic solutions to meet client's needs.  • Reviewed and created Functional Design documentation.  • Worked closely with the application development team to ensure completion of the SAP system. Logistics Manager SASMO - Rock Island, IL September 2008 to June 2010 • Prepared project life cycle reports for distribution management center, outlining procedures in determining positioning of supply stocks.  • Conducted internal and external audits, investigation, and inspection findings; made recommendations to prevent any recurrences.  • Managed team of 32 computer techs, which supported 16 different Army, Navy, and Air force bases across North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, and Georgia.  • Coordinated efforts within Integrated Logistics Support (ILS) to determining suitability of existing storage locations, and facilities. Logistics Manager United States Army - Fort Hood, TX January 2005 to September 2008 • Conducted operation audits to ensure compliance with government regulations, directives, and policies.  • Tracked expenditures against budget submission; provided a written report explanation for budget deviations.  • Managed 19 military warehouse, which comprised over 100 million in direct assets.  • Worked closely with the SAP project team in configuration and implementation of SAP WM, MM, SD, and IM.  • Used SAP to issue management for tickets logged by the business through Remedy. Automated Logistics Supervisor/Section Lead United States Army - Fort Hood, TX November 2001 to January 2005 • Prepared financial assessment notifications.  • Prepared property accountability data for Staff Call and Command reports.  • Conducted a broad range of analytical and coordinative central case management responsibilities to resolve a variety of supply problems, Transitioned staff from Legacy based systems to SAP based systems. Education Certification Defense Acquisition University May 2013 AA in English Communications North Carolina Central University May 2003 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (Less than 1 year), CIENA (Less than 1 year), DOD (Less than 1 year), HTTP (Less than 1 year), JAVA (Less than 1 year), System Administrator, Linux, Linux Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, SCCM, Redhat, Red Hat Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E5 May 2000 to November 2005 Certifications/Licenses Security+ November 2017 to Present Additional Information Technologies    • Solaris Unix Administration  JBOSS / JAVA / SSL / Oracle  • (WANDL) Wide Area Network Light Weight  • (LDAP)Lightweight Active Directory Protocol    • Operating Systems: Solaris 10/11 Unix/Linux, XML, HTTP  • Silvx Manager  • Ciena  • DOD Storefront  • Grid Control