Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Wichita, KS Outgoing computer science student seeking to continue building and advancing my technical and professional experience within the technology field. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Fleetcor - Wichita, KS June 2019 to Present • Provide timely and courteous desktop support service to local customer  • Provide assistance to on-site moves, additions and/or changes  • Monitor ticket queue to provide consistent support for desktop related issues  • Hardware support for Dell and HP desktops/laptops and mobile devices  • Maintain inventory of replacement systems  • Provide user administration services to clientele (password resets, file share access, VPN support, Cisco Call Manager support, etc.)  • Maintain network connectivity for desktop systems (support from desktop NIC to switch)  • Provide telephony support for clients (moves, additions and changes)  • Image new and existing devices  • BigFix management  • Patch deployment Hardware/Software Technician USD 260 - Derby, KS January 2018 to Present Assist district staff and students with all hardware, software and other application needs. Maintain and deploy systems. Experience with Microsoft, Chrome, Apple, Citrix, JAMF, Google Admin, Adobe Admin, Office 365 Admin, Securly Admin, Active Directory, virtual servers, Meraki and Sophos Admin. Use and maintenance of Kaseya ticketing systems and Impero management. SECURITY IT SUPPORT INFOSYNC - Wichita, KS May 2017 to January 2018 Assist internal and external users with IT support for UltiPro front and back office. Assist in database management in SQL. New company database setup. New user setup, internal and external. Security and role maintenance and setup. Password and username troubleshooting. UNIVERSAL BANKER FIDELITY BANK - Wichita, KS November 2016 to May 2017 Assist and complete all customer needs. Cash handling and depository transactions. Opening of deposit accounts, IRA, CD, and Business accounts. Customer service. Computer use. FRONT OFFICE ASSISTANT MEDEXPRESS - Wichita, KS August 2015 to April 2017 Patient check-in and out. Medical billing and scheduling. Administrative support. Light technical support. IRELAND HOME BASED SERVICES - DRUG TESTING SPECIALIST EVANSILLE, IN January 2014 to May 2015 Accessing clients in their homes and in the office to perform drug screens for the Indiana Department of Child Services and Juvenile Probation. Testifying in court on behalf of the company and DCS. TELLER OLD NATIONAL BANK - Evansville, IN July 2011 to January 2014 Customer transactions, balancing branch cash reports, customer service and inquiries, cash handling, computer systems and software use. Education BS in Business in Computer Science SOUTHERN NEW HAMPSHIRE UNIVERSITY January 2016 to August 2019 Skills Desktop Support, Hardware, Hardware Support, System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory