Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Specialist with 20+ years in the field La Porte, TX Love to help my customers (users) find ways to streamline, automate, protect data or just teach to find new ways to work smarter. My emphasis has always been getting the most out of IT resources to help business succeed. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator COLLEGE OF THE MAINLAND - Texas City, TX April 2017 to May 2019 Administrator for Microsoft O365 Active Directory accounts. On site Windows server Administrator using VM Ware ESxi 6.5. In charge of setting up virtual servers for new applications, organizing and cleaning up 22000 old Active Directory accounts. Managed 25 Xerox copiers. Installed Nagios X to alert me when any windows server services needed attention. Worked with Help Desk tickets when needed. IT Specialist Harris County Auditor's Office - Houston, TX November 2015 to July 2016 Provided IT support for the Harris County Auditors office, which included desktop, software and printer support for 300 employees.  Budgeting, inventory management, ordering and setup of new IT equipment. Initiated the first ever document management system with the county’s IT services department. Initiated a disaster recovery office where the county could run its AP, AR and payroll from another location in case of emergency. I also initiated automatic system to keep track maintenance issues, immediate alerts for down printers and copiers, automatic supply ordering for 120-networked HP printers and Xerox copiers. Provided remote help desk support for field auditors and personal on site support for software installations and training for Microsoft Office, Adobe Acrobat Pro, and IFAS (Harris County’s system)  Installed the first ever web based firewall system to eliminate employee’s use of non-business related applications i.e. Facebook, Streaming, etc. Created the first map of all offices with up to date information on IT inventory such as laptop’s and desktop’s and printers with serial number and IP info for each machine.  Worked with the county’s technical services department on server and email issues. Houston/Gulf Coast Regional IT Manager Varel International, LLC - Houston, TX March 2011 to February 2015 Provided personalized IT support and project management with a smile to over 120 employees in four office locations including engineering, sales, administration and manufacturing. Daily activities included PC desktop laptop, tablet hardware/software troubleshooting and repair. Network troubleshooting, implementations, Mitel digital and IP phone administration, VPN connectivity, Wireless connectivity and security, OS upgrades, MS Active Directory management, MS Exchange 2008 email administration. Print server management, Xerox Workcentre, HP Printers and plotters, Video conferencing, (Skype, Cisco).  Also added insight and assistance to any Project Management activities that would involve IT.  Took initiative to answer as many Help Desk emails from outside sales force day or night remotely using MS remote desktop or Logmein remote management tools.  Implemented disaster recovery plans from simple LTE Internet backup segments, daily tape backups, and incremental NAS real time backups using Storage Craft software. IT Consultant Durio & Company, PC - Bellaire, TX 2008 to 2011 IT Project Management, Infrastructure Independent IT - Bellaire, TX 2008 to 2008 contractor for an accounting firm in Bellaire, Texas. Setup office networks, (Cisco, HP) and phone systems, (Mitel, Shoretel) and provided daily PC hardware and software support for large accounting office. Contracted out to clients for technical support, ranging from simple network implementations, PC hardware support, IT Project Management, Infrastructure planning and implementation, MS Exchange administration, PC and server installations and maintenance from MS Server 2003 - 2008. Also, gave advise on IT implementations from server hardware/software to networking security and planning. Project Manager/General Manager R&D Construction - Lake Charles, LA 2005 to 2008 Total IT design and implementation of a state of the art Hotel and RV Park. Designed, implemented, and administered Cisco network and video cabling infrastructure, IP video security, electrical design, Hotel Point of Sale System. Wireless administration. (Cisco, Engenius). Lead Project Manager for all aspects of building construction and maintenance after opening. Installed hotel phone system (Mitel IP), Dell servers running MS server 2003, inventory control, housekeeping logistics, HVAC and Fire control systems.    Professional Experience  Surpass Resource Corporation - (Houston, TX)  Convergent Resources Inc. IT Director Surpas Resource Corporation - Houston, TX 1997 to 2001 IT support for credit collection agency in which I specialized in multiple platforms including IBM RS6000 database mainframe, DOS, and Windows. Setup and administered Novell Netware for data storage and wrote scripts for data mining, and data exchanges from AIX system to Netware which ran daily. Also wrote scripts from within Netware for daily reporting to executive department. The IT department was in charge of many types of communications to receive data from different banks and financial institutions including DSL, Internet, email, tape, modem and bulletin board transfers. In charge of phone system, automatic dialers, networking, and IBM serial connectivity.  Promoted to IT Director in 1998 for Surpass and Parent corporation Convergent Resources, in which I was in charge of managing four IT staff as well as Project Manager for new locations nationwide and sole analyst to test and implement technologies to optimize collections productivity. Negotiated IT contracts for Voice and Data, IT hardware, maintenance contracts and vendors.    Career Highlights Education High school or equivalent Skills • Hybrid MS Office 365, PC/MAC hardware and software support • Remote support (Windows remote desktop, Citrix, Logmein, Ultra VNC) • Wi-Fi troubleshooting, support, implementation (Cisco, Engenius) • Ethernet cabling, installation, mapping • Virtual Server (VMware 6.5, MS Hyper-V) • Internet Monitoring (Spectorsoft) • Enterprise Virus software (Mcafee, Vipre) • Project Management (IT and Construction) • Mobile device management (Blackberry, IPhone, Android, Windows) • LAN/WAN administration (Cisco, SonicWall, HP Procurve) • Windows server 2003-2012, installation, administration • Active Directory administration • WYSE terminal support • Windows thin client support and installation • Backup solutions (StorageCraft ShadowProtect, Backup Exec, SonicWall CDP) • Security/Time management Solutions (Kronos, ADP) • IP Video security (ADP, Cisco) • IBM RS6000 RISC system (AIX) • Phone systems (Mitel, Shoretel, Rolm, NEC) • Disaster Recovery Solutions • Training & Mentoring • Documentation, Instruction manuals, PowerPoint training presentations • Excellent communication skills in multiple business environments (10+ years), System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, MS Office 365 (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License