Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Annville, PA ? Successful Systems Administrator with 22+ years experience in system administration in environments that have consisted of multiple operating divisions, remote facilities and multiple data centers   ? Effective communicator at all levels and across functional teams with focus on meeting the needs of the business, customers and end users   ? Accustomed to fast pace with shifting priorities and multiple concurrent projects ? Highly analytical with excellent problem solving skills   ? Self-motivated leader with attention to detail   ? Adaptive to changing business demands with forward thinking to implement creative solutions Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator E & E Technical Consultants Inc - Harrisburg, PA April 2019 to Present Administration, operation and support of critical compute infrastructure. Design, develop, and implement application infrastructure to provide reliable and scalable applications and systems to meet the organization’s objectives and requirements.  •       Windows Server deployment, configuration and administration;  •       Installing and configuring hardware and software.  •       Implement and maintain monitoring utilities and software for fault management, performance and log analysis & actively respond to system issues and outages in a timely manner.  •       Works with third party hosting facilities, vendors and contractors providing compute services in support of delivery center systems, including mission critical systems.  •       Assist in architecting, planning and implementing compute needs in third party hosted facilities.  •       Involved in the planning and design of complex compute configurations including all hardware and software necessary for system operation and functionality and prepares design plans and specifications for acquisition and implementation according to established standards.  •       Handle service desk tickets.  •       Create and maintain system documentation.    Systems supported include: VMWare, SQL Server, Windows Server 2008/2012/2016/2019, ServiceNow, Microsoft Security Center Operations Manager (SCOM), Skype, vRealize.    Key Achievements:  ? Created new standardized dashboards for each department in Microsoft SCOM.  ? Added monitoring of Routers, Switches, UPS, and Web Application Services.  ? Updated firmware/drivers on 77 branch servers.  ? Patched and updated VMWare templates and VMs.  ? Created scripting to automate and audit VM upgrades. Systems Administrator Stephenson Equipment Inc - Harrisburg, PA December 2016 to February 2019 Chart the IT direction of the company. Manage all IT and Telecomm Systems. In charge of all IT staff. Responsible for uptime, and creating failover of systems. Maintain and created reports in Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services to fulfill business requirements. Purchase and track all licenses and equipment. Provide support for end users. Create documentation and procedures. In charge of user administration and backups.    Systems supported include: Exchange, VMWare, Barracuda Email and Spam Gateway, Citrix, Vipre, SQL Server, Foresight, Cisco Call Manager, Cisco Unity, Bridge Operator, Cisco Routers & Switches, Meraki Routers Switches & Access Points, Unitrends, Panopta, ACT!, EBS, LogMeIn, Carbonite, Windows Server, SAN, Laptops, PC, and cell phones.    Key Achievements:  ? Orchestrated an upgrade of both Core and SAN switches to 10G w/ Dual Switches for Failover.  ? Orchestrated failover routing for VOIP Phones  ? Created Failover for Radius, VPN, DNS  ? Upgraded data circuits and implemented backups circuits for multi-state and multi-site connections.  ? Upgraded voice circuits from T1 to Ethernet for multi-state and multi-site connections.  ? Increased backup retention and added cloud based DRaaS.  ? Orchestrated an upgrade from a single SQL server to a SQL Cluster.  ? Orchestrated an upgrade of the Exchange server and added a backup DAG server.  ? Upgraded Citrix from a single server to multiple server Citrix Farm  ? Upgraded SAN to a Dell Compellant increasing both storage and speed.  ? Connected Walsh Equipment Inc and Stephenson Equipment Inc's networks together.  ? Increased Uptime of UPS   ? Implemented network monitoring.  ? Upgraded CRM software Act! to current version and rolled out to Sales  ? Orchestrated VMware upgrade   ? Successfully relocated multiple site locations to other locations. PC Analyst New Penn Motor Express - Lebanon, PA February 1997 to November 2016 Support a fast paced next day delivery trucking company with many locations. Provide support for help desk, network, PC, server, Citrix. Establish and maintain relations with vendors and service providers for equipment and software. Manage inventory from procurement, asset tracking, and licensing. Install end user equipment. Manage warranty and support renewals. Maintain handheld computers for drivers. Support forklift scales and scanners for Weights & Inspections. Create documents and procedures. In charge of user administration and backups.    Key Achievements:  ? Multiple Laptop and PC rollouts  ? Citrix Migration of 2016. Migrated users to iGel UD2 and Wyse 3030 thin client devices.  ? Service cost control for Mobile Handhelds. Reduced repair costs 18% with a 4 week turnaround. Further reduced repair costs 32% and sped up the turnaround to 2 weeks. Finally, reduced repair costs 24% and sped up repair costs to 2 days.  This comes to a $2,850 per month cost savings.  ? Secured a National Contract with Avery Weigh-Tronix to service the forklift scales and cut support costs.  ? Replaced backup solutions several times. Migrated to ARCserve IT on Novell. Migrated to NetBackup on Linux. Migrated to NetBackup on Windows.  ? Upgraded Novell Netware 5 network to Novell Netware 6. Education B.S. in Computer Science in SQL Programming Lebanon Valley College - Annville, PA 1995 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Microsoft Visio (10+ years), Cisco Meraki networking equipment (2 years), Cisco Unified Communications System (2 years), Bridge Operator Console (2 years), Adobe Suite (4 years), Unitrends Backup with Forever Cloud and DRaaS (2 years), Lotus Notes (10+ years), Novell Netware (5 years), Symantec Ghost (10+ years), VMWare (4 years), Barracude Email and Spam Gateway (2 years), Microsoft SQL Server (2 years), Trend Micro OfficeScan (5 years), Vipre (2 years), BackupExec (3 years), NetBackup (5 years), ArcServe IT (5 years), LogMeIn (2 years), Carbonite (2 years), Windows Server (10+ years), Citrix (10+ years), System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin, Red Hat, Linux Certifications/Licenses Certified Meraki Network Operator (CMNO) January 2019 to Present Cisco Meraki certification. Groups Central PA VMWare User Group October 2017 to Present March 2018 I joined the leadership of this group. Additional Information Actively involved in personal development and leadership skills  Additional courses taken:  SQL Programming  Microsoft 70-461 Querying SQL Server 2012  Microsoft 70-462 Administering SQL Server 2012 Databases