Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Redmond, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator H2 PowerTech - Bend, OR December 2017 to Present Sys Admin duties to include Server Admin up to 2016, Network Admin, Desktop Support, and other IT duties as assigned. I'm the sole IT presence in a small R&D company of 20 people. We're owned by a larger parent company and I provide IT duties for the R&D branch of that larger organization. I'm fluent in Project Management, Vendor Management, and working with outside consultants when relevant. AWS Cloud Engineer Hayden Homes - Redmond, OR April 2017 to November 2017 Orchestrated migration from On-Prem to AWS VPC’s spanning multiple availability zones utilizing Route 53, RDS, Multifactor Authentication, Cloud Ranger backups, Application load balancers. Migration from 2008R2 Hyper V to 2012 and 2016 EC2 instances utilizing AWS Snowball for V to V transfer. Supported onsite users and maintained server and networking systems with multiple physical locations throughout the PacNW Les Schwab Tire Center - Bend, OR November 2007 to March 2017 PC / Lan Systems Tech provided desktop and server support for HQ office and remote locations consisting of 350 users and over 500 PC's and servers. The desktop support includes XP, Windows 7 64bit, Windows 10, Mac OSX 10.12 and a few Linux boxes. Desktop Support is level two but I work directly with users and help desk both over the phone and in person. I strive to develop and maintain professional relationships with a personal touch.  ? Administer Netbackup 7.5 environment.  ? Administer Fax Servers  ? Administer 2008R2 centralized printing environment.  ? Administer OSX 10.8 servers.  ? Support Altiris and Dell Kace imaging systems.  ? Support Win7, XP, OSX 10.8 clients and servers, and 2008R2 environments. AWS Cloud Infrastructure Admin Orchestrated 2012 to 2016 migration from On-Prem to AWS VPC's spanning multiple availability zones utilizing Route 53, RDS, Multifactor Authentication, Cloud Ranger backups, Application load balancers. Migration from 2008R2 Hyper V to 2012 and 2016 EC2 instances utilizing AWS Snowball for V to V transfer. Supported onsite users and maintained server and networking systems with multiple physical locations throughout the PacNW. Consultant TweekIT, LLC - Bend, OR March 2005 to 2014 IT Consultant and owner providing full range of mobile IT services to residential clients and small businesses.  ? Earned a solid reputation for technical acumen, professionalism and responsiveness resulting in a high level of repeat and referral business.  ? Provide support to end users by networking both wired and wireless, computer setup, upgrading, and repair.  ? Train users on various software and electronics. Application Specialist / Network Administrator TweekIT, LLC - Bend, OR August 2006 to April 2007 maintained 5 local servers and 25 remote servers to include updates, upgrades both hardware and software, and back up of data.  ? Supported 250 local users and 300 remote users in various software and hardware configurations with 90% first contact resolution and 10% follow up resolution.  ? Reduced problem resolution time by 50% by supporting 5 company owned business.  ? Improved productivity by ten fold by successfully setting up six remote VPN sites.  ? Increased productivity after training and managing 250 users.  ? Structured and maintained a branch of a WAN with six remote sites using Active Directory.  ? Updated documentation in order to record new equipment installed, new sites and changes to computer configurations. Managed voice over IP telephony system.  ? Ensured that network was available to all system users and resolved data communications problems.  ? Received telephone calls from users with data communication problems such as data transmission, network availability, and network resources to include VPN, printers, file and printer servers etc. Double Agent Best Buy - Bend, OR March 2005 to August 2006 of the most productive electronic store in the company for the western region. The department was consistently over budget for incoming revenue and under budget for labor dollars spent.  ? Recognized as the number 1 field agent in the territory for 3 quarters in a row.  ? Refurbished laptops, desk stations, test stations, and various computer components.  ? Performed troubleshooting, diagnosed, installed, upgraded, configured, and repaired computer systems and network system components.  ? Successfully managed a 10 person team repairing and upgrading customer computers.  ? Repaired and upgraded hardware and software for PC systems. Network Test Engineer / Intel Contractor of microprocessor and networking Production Company Intersoft, Inc - Hillsboro, OR January 2001 to November 2002 73,000 employees' world wide.  ? Setup networking scenarios that showed beating the competition's product's by 300%.  ? Devised and generated test cases during multiple case scenarios that allowed the marketing group to publish verifiable results that showed beating the competition in throughput, reliability, and feature set.  ? Tested and validated network hardware to include network cards, servers, switches, and routers.  ? Installed, configured, and tested Intel and other vendor's adapters. Experienced with configuration of advanced services such as 802.1q VLANs and 802.3ad link aggregation. Performed Gigabit adapter performance testing.  ? Expert in performance benchmarking applications such as Chariot, Ntttcp, Netbench, Webbench, and Iometer.  ? Skilled in Cisco switches, Extreme switches, Intel switches/nics, Foundry switches, 3Com nics, and many other networking components. ANS feature testing and verification for Intel, Nics. Network Administrator Portland, OR January 2000 to November 2000 supported 60 users and 10 remote stores across three states.  ? Increased network availability and decreased down time substantially. Established a centrally managed antivirus and data backup solution.  ? Solely responsible for a single domain multi subnet TCP/IP environment consisting of NT 4.0 servers, MS Exchange 5.5, Win98, NT Workstation, and Windows 2000 clients. DHCP, Wins, DNS enabled.  ? Designed and implemented a network wide backup data and power schema.  ? Implemented a network wide centrally managed antiviral solution. Help Desk Workstation Support Specialist State Farm - Irving, TX August 1996 to August 1998 supported nine mid-western and southern states and agents before and after migrations of 18 regional offices and 1800 State Farm agents.  ? Resolved the highest number of calls resulting in a dramatic reduction of user down time. Promoted by management for my efficiency and attention to detail in supporting an enterprise wide user base in a help desk environment.  ? Provided technical support for Windows 95,98, NT 3.51, NT 4.0, Novell Netware, OS/2, various Microsoft products, RAS, and State Farm specific applications. Education Associate of Applied Science in Biomedical Electronics AIM Community College ? Greeley 2007 Skills AWS (1 year), Lan (9 years), Linux (9 years), Mac (9 years), Netbackup (9 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses MCSE Additional Information Technical Skills    Software:  MS Windows XP through Windows 10, MS Office 2010, 2013, and 2016, Exchange, Citrix Metaframe, Quick Books, JWS, PC Anywhere, LAN Desk, NetBackup, Metaviewer, informed in AWS cloud based solution working towards proficiency.    Hardware: Cisco, Extreme Networks, Intel, Foundry Switches/Routers, Servers, PC's, Network Printers, Network Devices  Protocols: TCP/IP, IPX /SPX, Token, Ring, OSPF    Operating Systems: Linux, Windows NT/XP/Win7/Win10 Server 2008R2/2012/2016, Windows Terminal Server, Citrix and virtual desktop, Mac OSX  Testing Tools: Chariot, NTTCP, Network Analyzers  Tools: Oscilloscopes, DVM, Soldering, Packet Analyzers