Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - AIS Network Richmond, VA Senior level messaging engineer with fifteen years combined expertise in Microsoft Exchange, Active Directory, and AirWatch working in large-scale, high-visibility, technical environments. Great value to customer services offered with integrity, accountability, and keen attention to details. Excellently communicate orally and in writing with customers, vendors, management, and colleagues. Organization, knowledge-sharing, and competently completing tasks are attributes. A strong messaging and mobility engineer with skills ranging from solutions of critical issues to designing integrated systems. Work Experience Systems Administrator AIS Network - Ashland, VA December 2018 to Present • Proficiently manage Active Directory user accounts, distribution lists, and access control groups via actions that include creation, modification, and granting local access rights.  • Respond to, solution and resolve incident and service request tickets to meet Service Level Agreements.  • Provide OKTA support for Commonwealth of Virginia  • Provide Group Policy Management support  • Provide reporting statistics to agencies via tools such as Dell Knowledge Portal - Intrust and Quest Intrust Manager  • Provide support for external and internal Domain Name Service (DNS) Enterprise Operations Messaging Engineer AIS Network - Richmond, VA February 2018 to December 2018 Enterprise Operations Messaging Engineer  • Providing pinnacle support of messaging services that include Microsoft Lync and Skype for Business, Hosted Mail Archives (HMA), Listserv, and Cisco IronPort.  • Team recognized for competently and transparently migrating over 85,000 end-users to a third-party.  • Participant in a 24x7 on-call rotation.  • Solution and resolve incident and service request tickets to meet service level agreements.  • Knowledge-share with junior engineers on using technical, company-provided tools and software.  • Proficiently manage Active Directory user accounts, distribution lists, and access control groups via actions that include creation, modification, and granting local access rights. Systems Integrations Specialist - Mobility Engineer CompuCom Systems - Richmond, VA June 2016 to October 2017 Richmond, Virginia)  Systems Integrations Specialist - Mobility Engineer  • Professionally and proficiently provided clients and customers tier three resolutions of Mobile Device Management issues (Good Technology and AirWatch).  • Leveraged business processes and techniques via the development of technical solutions that achieved objectives of integrating systems used by clients and third-party hardware and software products.  • Provided technical provisioning for presentations, installations, and maintenances of products to ensure systems accuracy in configuration and operability.  • Created and accountable for the technical precisions and completeness of integrated systems' designs and documentation.  • Developed and recommended solutions and strategies for clients' business goals, objectives, and systems' infrastructures.  • Managed customers' mobile operating system devices that included troubleshooting issues for Apple operating system (iOS).  • Create and maintain technical designs and documentation. Enterprise System and Mobility Engineer Northrop Grumman Corporation/Virginia Information Technologies Agency Program - Chester, VA July 2006 to June 2016 Chester, Virginia  Enterprise System and Mobility Engineer  • Accountable for the Commonwealth of Virginia's operational excellence within the complex messaging environment that included over 85,000 end-users base with more than eighty messaging and support servers.  • Vital team engineer responsible for installing the Microsoft Exchange mail system that included routine and emergency maintenances, multi- system integrations, proactive monitoring, performance tuning, troubleshooting, upgrades, new servers' installations, and escalation of issues resolved using Microsoft best practices.  • Subject matter expert in areas that included support procedures, security, and technology advancement.  • Met deadlines in an environment that demanded independent accountability and team collaboration; high-level, effective communications with leadership, project management, and agency team resources.  • Lead engineer for AirWatch implementation - an innovative mobility solution for integrating messaging services on agnostic smartphones for the Commonwealth of Virginia.  • Collaborated with the cloud vendor, internal systems, and customers to provide problem-solving solutions resulting in minimal to no impact on business operations.  • Managed legacy mobility solutions to ensure optimal health for Blackberry Enterprise Servers, and Good Technology servers.  • Ensured continuous improvement of systems, processes, documentation, business, and client support.  • Administered Active Directory, Active Roles Server, and ForeFront Identity Manager via password resets, group permissions, and account modifications.  • Provided public key infrastructure and secure sockets layer certificate support; maintained internal Domain Name Servers' updates, and group policy management. Information Technology Specialist II Northrop Grumman Corporation/Virginia Information Technologies Agency Program - Richmond, VA July 2004 to July 2006 • Managed the agency's Microsoft Exchange Client and Server environments that include upgrades, system backups, and critical problem resolutions.  • Managed Microsoft Exchange Accounts by ensuring accounts integrity of internal and external customers.  • Vital support to the Microsoft Exchange Environment via the Microsoft Outlook client.  • Promoted user productivity via customization of the Exchange/Outlook application.  • Efficient technical support for the Blackberry Enterprise Server.  • Successfully completed the Exchange 5.5 to Exchange 2003 Migration Project. Programmer Analyst Virginia Department of Transportation - Richmond, VA September 1997 to July 2004 • Technically supported (maintained and upgraded tasks, problem identifications and resolutions) Computer Systems Engineers using distributed network of VAX minicomputers and Microsoft Exchange Client/Server environment.  • Managed Microsoft Exchange accounts - configured and customized clients' mail.  • Supported the Microsoft Exchange environment that included Microsoft Outlook client monitoring.  • Integral role with the Windows 2000 Migration Project.  • Created, deleted, modified and maintained accounts/mailboxes security on the VAX and NT platforms.  • Provided effective end-users support during VAX/VMXS application All-In-One migration to the Microsoft Exchange/Outlook application. Programmer nine Virginia Department of Transportation May 1994 to September 1997 • Assisted end-users through hands-on instructions.  • Managed and supported the Form Fill-It application integrated within All-In-One.  • Supported VAX/VMS, All-In-One, Form Fill-It at nine Virginia Department of Transportation's district locations.  • Performed system support program maintenance for end-users.  • Evaluated software by testing the functionality to ensure the end-user and system requirements were met.  • Maintained software documentation; and prepared training materials. Co-Op Student August 1991 to June 1992 • Supported VAX minicomputer office automation software packages: All-In-One, and Form Fill-It.  • Programmed in Digital Command Language on the VAX/VMS operating system.  • Resolved user problems provided via helpdesk requests.  • Assisted Transportation Engineers with Trouble Management System Software. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Mathematics in Computer Science and Mathematics Virginia Commonwealth University - Richmond, VA Computer Systems Engineering Howard University - Washington, DC Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory