Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Falmouth, MA Work Experience Systems Administrator CompuCom at GE - Foxborough, MA November 2018 to Present vSphere 5.5 Support  Dell EMC Server Hardware support  Network management  WLAN management  Group Policy Edits  Windows support  Macintosh support  MS Office Support   Active Directory Support Systems Administrator SLD of The adidas Group, Mattapoiset MA - Mattapoisett, MA August 2012 to December 2017 • Imaged all new PC's, Laptops, Macintoshes and Windows Mobile equipment.  • Daily supervision of all Windows and Unix servers, Macintosh and PC desktops, handheld wireless devices, network and phone equipment.  • Maintain backups for ESXi4.1 and rotate backup tapes, perform data restores as needed.  • Managed all software installations and licensing through adidas' SCCM system.  • Inventoried and supported all Motorola MC9190 Radio Frequency devices. Desktop Support/Contractor Department of the Interior February 2011 to January 2012 • First point of contact for all local users, password resets, email clients and basic troubleshooting.  • Administered Windows Server 2008 and Windows Server 2003 print servers, antivirus servers and Active Directory.  • Helped scientists connect to data collection instruments using legacy hardware on current operating systems.  • Imaged and configured all new PC and Macintosh hardware for use in the Dept of Interior's Active Directory Forest.  • Configured users for the Dept. of the Interior VPN system and Remote Desktop Access using SSH and Bomgar.  • Set up virtual Windows and Linux computers using Parallels and VMWare. Service Specialist ACTSmart Inc May 2009 to January 2011 • First point of contact on all incoming support requests, escalating where necessary and making sure every issue is resolved ensuring client satisfaction.  • Responsible for maintaining a pool of 71 Microsoft 2003/2008 servers including WSUS patch management, new user setup in Active Directory, Exchange 2007 and login scripts.  • Performed test restores of data using backup servers, online backup services and tape backups.  • Informed all clients when we would be performing server reboots, patches and test restores.  • Responsible for maintaining a pool of 365 desktops in various small business environments. Help Desk Specialist Cape Cod Cooperative Bank June 2008 to September 2008 • Set up all new users in windows server 2003 active directory and exchange server, performed server maintenance as prescribed by supervisors  • First line of support for 500+ users at 7 different locations throughout Cape Cod.  • Supported all aspects of ms windows, iti mainframe financial software  • Ordered and distributed all printer supplies. End of Lease Specialist as Contractor Sapphire Technologies / EDS / Stop & Shop LAN & Desktop July 2007 to April 2008 Imaged new computers for end of lease cycle at Stop and Shop's corporate facilities.  • Required to perfectly recreate a user's desktop's settings on all current and legacy systems; including MS Office, Lotus Notes, and inventory database management systems.  • Assessed need for and facilitated hardware upgrades where appropriate.  • Configured wireless network access with either 802.11 or cellular internet service.  • LAN/WAN, VPN and remote access administration Shift Supervisor/Keyholder Easy Resident Technician/Office Equipment Specialist Staples, The Office Supply Superstore 2004 to 2007 Provided outstanding customer service in all retail capacities for 3 different stores  • Handled repairs, upgrades and virus removal on customer's computers in store's tech center  • Consistently ranked in the top 200 extended service plan salespeople chain wide for 3 years running.  • Retained store keys and performed manager on duty shifts on a daily basis.  • Constantly came up with new contests and challenges to keep my staff's sales high and enhance the esprit de corps. Help Desk Specialist Visiting Nurses Association of Cape Cod 2003 to 2003 • First point of contact for 300+ field staff and their company issued laptop computers.  • Helped to implement a ras dialup server to make client record communication faster between administration and field staff.  • Performed daily backups of the clinician and administrative database servers.  • Synchronized data between clinician side servers and administrative side servers. Education New Horizons Computer Learning Center December 2015 A.S. in Microcomputer Specialist Springfield Technical Community College Skills System Admin, Active Directory, Linux, Vmware, System Administrator, SCCM