Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> CCENT and CompTIA Secure Infrastructure Specialist (CSIS) certification have the knowledge and skill required to support hardware and software systems. These secure infrastructure specialists will also be able to protect an organization’s assets from internal and external threats, as well as demonstrated the ability to design and implement functional networks, configure, manage, and maintain essential network devices, implement network security, and troubleshoot network problems. Ponte Vedra, FL Motivated IT and Business Graduate looking for a challenging position. Ready to jump in on any project and help any company develop any software or implement any upgrades necessary to their system. CompTIA Security+, Network+ and A+ Certified. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Ponte Vedra Dental, PA - Jacksonville, FL August 2017 to Present Maintain servers, backups, and cyber security for compliance. CompTIA Network+ and A+ certified. IT Int HCA Hospital - Sarasota, FL June 2017 to July 2017 Provide IT support at Hospital Intern OE Wheels, LLC - Sarasota, FL March 2016 to August 2016 • Develop Java programs that facilitate the integration of vehicles with parts  • Manage Titan TPMS Channel  • Develop competing TPMS Site with WordPress Digital Marketing Manager A&E Television Networks - Coral Gables, FL March 2012 to November 2012 Develop online conversion strategies to improve to build online traffic. Implemented SEO strategy that increase traffic over 200% Sr. Project Manager & Consultant DSG Entertainment June 2005 to March 2012 • Develop online conversion strategies to improve registration and sales.  • Develop and execute online marketing strategy to drive traffic (Ex SEO)  • Create promotions and recommended product improvements to support traffic needs  • Controlled online marketing budget  • Setup and analyze traffic results through Google Analytics  • Develop and analyze results for online questionnaires Marketing Manager Terra Networks June 2003 to June 2005 • Develop and execute online marketing strategy to drive traffic  • Create promotions and recommended product improvements to support traffic needs  • Controlled online marketing budget Marketing, Traffic, and Navigation Analyst 123.com April 2001 to May 2003 • Analyzed and managed online traffic measuring tools (Web Trends)  • Controlled online banner software (Real Media) * Email Marketing Software (Unity Mail) Content and Marketing Manager Planeta Networks, Inc March 2000 to March 2001 • Project Manager for Game Server and BPG (Broadband Programming Guide)  • Analyzed and managed online traffic measuring tools (Web Trends)  • Produced video segments and managed PlanetaXtreme Team Education Bachelor's in Information Technology University of South Florida Sarasota-Manatee - Sarasota, FL 2015 to 2017 Bachelor's in Business Administration Mass Communications University of Florida 1994 to 1998 Skills Android (2 years), Java (2 years), MySQL (2 years), PHP (2 years), Project Management (5 years), HTML 5 (2 years), Wordpress (2 years), Python (2 years), Javascript (2 years), JQuery (1 year), Git (1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year), CSS (2 years), J2EE (Less than 1 year), Linux (1 year), System Administration (1 year), Network Administration (1 year), System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin, Linux Administrator Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jcenmiami https://github.com/jcenmiami Certifications/Licenses Android N: From Beginner to Paid Professional November 2016 to Present 25 Hour Course on Android Development. Certificate of Completion. iOS 10 & Swift 3: From Beginner to Paid Professional December 2016 to Present 75 hour course on iOS Development. Certificate of Completion. CompTIA A+ April 2019 to April 2022 Earners of the CompTIA A+ certification are proven problem solvers who are able to perform critical IT support tasks including device configuration, data backup and recovery, and operating system configuration. CompTIA A+ certified professionals have demonstrated baseline security skills for IT support roles and are able to detect and remove malware, address privacy concerns, and troubleshoot core service challenges. CompTIA Network+ April 2019 to April 2022 Earners of the CompTIA Network+ certification have the skills needed to troubleshoot, configure, and manage wired and wireless networks found in companies around the world. CompTIA Network+ professionals have demonstrated the ability to design and implement functional networks, configure, manage, and maintain essential network devices, implement network security, and troubleshoot network problems.    Earners of the CompTIA IT Operations Specialist (CIOS) certification have the ability to manage the flow of a workplace and optimize day-to-day activities. These IT operations specialists have demonstrated the ability to analyze business operations and identify customer needs. CompTIA Security+ June 2019 to June 2022 Earners of the CompTIA Security+ certification have the knowledge and skills necessary to perform core security functions required of any cybersecurity role. CompTIA Security+ professionals know how to identify and address potential threats, attacks and vulnerabilities and they have established techniques in risk management, risk mitigation, threat management and intrusion detection. Publications E-commerce Web-Site http://www.tiresensorshop.com 2016-10 E-commerce Site that sells Tires Sensors Online. CCENT Cisco Additional Information Skills & Expertise  Android Development (Certificate)  PHP HTML WordPress  C++ Programming  My SQL  Python Programming  Java Programming  JavaScript  JQuery  Online Marketing    Product Management  SEO Marketing  Traffic Analysis  Digital Marketing  E-commerce  Google Analytics  Marketing Strategy  Online Advertising