Systems administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Systems administrator - Naval Information Warfare Center Hephzibah, GA Skilled at integrating customer specifications and technical requirements with sound business practices to provide the best possible services in order to surpass expectations. As a team leader, I analyze the types, frequency, and solutions necessary to correct problems and improve help desk operational procedures necessary to improve operational efficiency and effectiveness. Work Experience Systems administrator Naval Information Warfare Center - New Orleans, LA April 2019 to Present • Assist in the implementation of policies and standards related to the use of computing resources, overall strategy, design, implementation, and operational aspects of multiple systems, operating environments, and related software.  • Performs a variety of assignments associated with monitoring and controlling computer operating systems.  • Analyzes system faults and troubleshoots and runs diagnostic tests on operating systems and hardware to detect problems.  • Provides support to IT systems including day-to-day operations, monitoring and problem resolution for all of the client/server/storage/network devices.  • Building new Linux servers using industry best practice while always considering security first;  • Maintaining the existing Linux installation base, ensuring that servers are properly patched and secured;  • Monitoring servers for stability and security, taking both proactive and reactive measures to correct and prevent issues;  • Diagnosing and repairing issues with the Linux servers in a timely fashion;  • Looking for system and stability improvements across the servers;  • Planning and coordinating the maintenance, upgrade, and support of servers;  • Resolving problems such as defective hardware components or corrupted software and running tests to verify operability and functionality;  • Recommending and installing firmware updates as required;  • Tuning performance and ensuring high availability of infrastructure Systems Administration/Network Specialist OPM-SANG - Riyadh, SA June 2016 to March 2019 GS-2210-12 June 2016 - March 2019  • As Lead systems administrator for OPM-SANG, I manage all tasks performance and ensure that tasks under various assigned IT projects are completed to the satisfaction of the customer.  • In conjunction with the G6 Director and Deputy Director, I review IT projects technical status and coordinate on decisions to achieve goals.  • Configure and deployed over 36 Microsoft Surface Pros 4' with Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNET) Image in compliance with National Institute of Standards (NIST) SP800-171 standards.  • Direct the installation and configuration of hardware and software applications.  • In the absence of the G6 Director or Deputy Director, I schedule, coordinate, direct, monitor and review activities to ensure quality deliverables.  • Work with the G6 Director in programming decisions affecting long and short-range courses of action for assigned projects.  • Keep G6 Director informed of project progress  • Provide input regarding the organizations operating budget related to assigned projects.  • Assists in security management to ensure only authorized (personnel) access to computer  • systems and create accounts.  • Ensure all functions (i.e., planning, design, development, deployment, maintenance, etc.) are incorporated to customer needs in support of assigned IT projects into a comprehensive management plan. Following these functions integrates schedules, milestones, budgets, responsibilities of the participating parties, assumptions and risks, contingencies and performance measurement criteria.  • Configure smartphones (Apple iPhones and Samsung Galaxy) for the enterprise environment.  • Implement and manage a release cycle for virtual desktop upgrades, involving installation, maintenance and upgrading of network operating systems software.  • Maintain, manage, create and delete user accounts on both NIPRNET (unclassified) and Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) network using Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange.  • Configure and maintain Solar Winds to monitor network system up and down times.  • Support and maintain VMware- vSphere cloud computing based servers and operating systems, to include; Ubuntu/Red Hat Linux and Windows Server 2003/2008/2012R2, 2016, Structured Query Language (SQL) 2003/2005/2012.  • Develop and maintain problem tracking and resolution databases.  • Install, configure and support all staff workstations, laptops, printers.  • Establish and maintain Exchange mailboxes, user accounts, distribution groups and establish infrastructure mailbox constraints and advises on enterprise exchange policies.  • Test and analyze computer hardware and software malfunctions to resolve physical and logical processing problems, e.g., adjusting equipment configurations, realigning port allocations, recommending appropriate acquisitions, and distinguishing between equipment, software, and Local Area Network (LAN) installation and operations problems.  • Advise the Command on new software and hardware developments.  • Install, maintain, update, patch and troubleshoot vendor software on all servers.  • Review new releases of operating systems and software, and while making recommendations to the Director and Deputy Director.  • Deploy, integrate and combine, and test load balancing techniques.  • Monitor and control all system components and user access to ensure the best balance of performance, capacity and resource allocation.  • Monitors IT services, e.g., operating systems, applications, and systems.  • Test, install, configure, and maintain networks; including hardware (servers, hubs, bridges, switches and routers) and software.  • Performs network surveys to determine software and hardware requirements.  • Ensures the rigorous application of information security-information assurance policies, principles, and practices are adhered to, and provides continuing problems resolution services to depot customers.  • Creates, modifies, and deletes approved user security profiles.  • Monitors security audit thresholds and takes corrective action(s).  • Provides authorized individual user and group account management services, i.e., establishing, deleting, changing, suspending accounts/ and responding to inquiries.  • Reports unauthorized access attempts/breaches, and takes corrective action accordingly.  • Performs thin client and workstation security lockdown.  • Maintains, monitors, and provides assistance for security access, logins, and passwords for local (non-domain) accounts.  • Oversees maintenance and configuration of Network routing and switching equipment to include Virtual Private Network (VPN), Voiceover IP (VOIP) and Call Management System.  • Oversee SharePoint and serve as backup administrator for NIPR and Secret Internet Protocol Router (SIPR) systems.  • Work with technical support staff in resolving critical problems.  • Provide assistance to systems security specialists, and advise on network and system administrator appointments.  • Provide on-going customer support to include the installation, configuration, troubleshooting, recovery and maintenance of customer hardware.  • Assure strict adherence to all security measures and procedures.  • Regulate the access of all personnel and the viewing of special access material by visitors.  • Provides software licensing, control, and status services for accountability purposes.    Provides software access, recovery, and removal, installation, and delivery services.  • Plans, schedules, pre-tests, installs/removes, and conducts post tests for approved new software patches and upgrades for installation-wide use.  • Documents software configuration changes accordingly. Information Support Technician January 2015 to June 2016 • Responded to, resolves, or forwards customer requests for Information Technology services or problems in the most efficient and effective manner.  • Served as a team member of the Customer Support Team.  • Provided technical assistance to customers to minimize disruptions of computer operations.  • Exercised responsibility for maintaining the accuracy and integrity of the help desk database.  • Received phone calls, walk-ins, or computer generated Request for Information Technology Services (RITS) from Depot personnel.  • Resolved a wide variety of problems, to include local area network (LAN) and wide area network (WAN) technical problems, a variety of problems emanating from the UNIX and NT operating systems, and all Depot-Wide applications.  • Performed preventive maintenance and minor administration of the same to keep the systems optimized.  • Maintained and monitored network printer objects.  • Routed unresolved problems to appropriate specialists for resolution, maintaining complete status of trouble call for reference and reporting purposes.  • Monitored and maintains the standard client software and hardware configuration to maintain effective and timely response time.  • Maintained status of resources from a variety of sources, i.e., higher level technical personnel, various software within the enterprise management system, contractors, etc., and provides pertinent information to Team Leader.  • Broadcast or provided current status of critical systems via network broadcast calls, messaging notifications, and/or web page to eliminate an avalanche of trouble calls from uninformed customers.  • Maintained a current directory of available IT services, e.g., applications, systems, IT POCs, and telephone numbers.  • Responded to calls from senior installation managers when a system problem occurs during a non-duty hours.  • Solved problems associated with individual hardware or software deliveries. Provides inventory of hardware and software to the Contract Officer Representative(s) (COR). Simulations Design Specialist GS-2210-09 US Army - Augusta, GA July 2014 to January 2015 • Designed Virtual BattleSpace (VBS2) Fires - an advanced, call-for-fire module that simulates artillery, mortars, MLRS and naval gunfire support.  • Designed (VBS2) - a U.S. Army 3-D, first-person, digital "games-for-training" war simulator.  • Designed UrbanSim - a PC-based virtual training application for practicing battle command in complex counterinsurgency and stability operations. Information Support Specialist GS-2210-09 US Army April 2010 to July 2014 • Served as the Information Assurance Security Officer (IASO) for the entire directorate.  • Served as Domain Manager and System Administrator for multiple servers in a complex networked environment.  • Responsible for assisting customers in installing and configuring desktop systems and commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) software and resolving problems in accordance with established procedures.  • Performed risk assessments of potential cyber vulnerabilities for the entire 15th Signal Battalion.  • Diagnosed and resolved problems in response to customer trouble-tickets.  • Researched, evaluated and provided feedback on problematic trends and patterns in customer support requirements.  • Accountable for the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the Department of Defense/US Army Network for the 15th Signal Battalion.  • Monitored performance of Wide Area Networks, Local Area Networks, and supporting hardware, including routers, servers, workstations and fiber networks.  • Supported all Automation functions of Knowledge Systems Directorate (KSD).  • Managed 1500 personal computers for students and faculty, 300 switches and 300 routers, and 25 networked printers throughout 52 classrooms and offices. Field Support Technician Clarke County School District - Athens, GA October 2007 to April 2008 • Administered networks daily backups, adding, deleting, and changing users, purging files and monitoring various servers for available capacity.  • Maintained CISCO switches/data racks for each school; set up and troubleshoot CISCO IP Phones.  • Ensured work prioritization and scheduling supported operational needs without compromising on-line risk management (EOOS probabilistic risk).  • Received network, communications, and related operating systems from various sources such as design centers and commercial vendors; maintains an inventory of all network hardware and software.  • Implemented all network operating system and/or application software and maintains contact with software suppliers to insure that current releases of software products are in use.  • Changed the components of existing equipment for efficient operations.  • Developed and maintained local procedures for networks, system operations, and product assembly and installation. Information Support Technician - Intern Fort Discover National Science Center - Augusta, GA January 2007 to September 2007 • Installed and supported new server hardware and software infrastructure.  • Allocated network resources, maintain systems, training users.  • Provided technical support to users with very different levels of IT knowledge and competence.  • Conducted testing to insure operability, efficiency, and compliance with existing standards.  • Performed system backups to insure expedient restoration of the database for the respective network equipment.  • Participated with user support personnel to train office personnel and functional end users on use of office automation computers, local and wide area networks, and other automated tools.  • Recommended and prepared operating policies and procedures for networks, system operations, and product assembly and installation.  • Remotely function tests the hardware and software to resolve technical problems and assign the appropriate on-site repairs.  • Performed system backups to insure expedient restoration of the database for the respective network equipment.  • Monitored operation of the network and ensures that hardware and software are functioning properly and that operation standards are met. Reviews, evaluates, and fine-tunes components to achieve peak efficiency within the overall network connectivity. Armored Guard Mortars, Infantry - Camp Lejeune, NC June 1998 to June 2004 • Responsible for thousands of dollars during the transport of money and valuables on armored van. Responsible for transporting values to and from destinations (loading and off-loading).  • Enforced state and local laws regulating animal ownership and treatment.  • Investigated complaints of violations of animal laws, patrols for and impounds stray animals, issue citations for violations of laws.  • Expert rifleman, support combat operations by delivering precision fire on selected targets.  • Responsible for the tactical employment of the 60mm light mortar and the 81mm medium mortar.  • Forward observer for battalion; provide target location and descriptions for Scout Sniper teams Aircraft and Naval gunfire fire missions.  • Exemplified versatility and multitasking skills in performing diverse tasks while supervising a team or squad through a wide range of geographic locations and live fire ranges.  • Demonstrated proficiency in conducting tactical movements through all-weather conditions in high-stress environments.  • Acquired and completed various tactical training programs such a Jungle Warfare and Squad Leader.  • Applied strong leadership and analytical skills in addressing and resolving problems within the team and squadron environment.  • Gained full knowledge on the fundamentals of reconnaissance operations, which included doctrine, equipment, tactical concepts and techniques.  • Utilized and leveraged expertise in conducting navigation instruction.  • Developed and enhanced weapons and combat expertise by completing lectures, practical exercises on cover, land navigation, supporting arms, detection of mines and body traps, tracked vehicles, scouting patrolling as well as offensive tactics. Education Associate of Science degree SAVANNAH RIVER COLLEGE - Augusta, GA June 2007 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin, Linux