Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SYSAD/IT Dacula, GA 21-year US Military Special Operator with an array of Systems Administrator/Information Technology skill sets. Highly skilled with troubleshooting COTS hardware and software systems; experienced with building and configuring desktop systems used by US Military personnel with over 15yrs experience. Possess extensive knowledge of Windows System Administration and Windows Server Management 2008-2012. SharePoint and Microsoft Office experience, also possesses the ability to learn quickly and work independently on program-critical tasks. Active TS/SCI security clearance, DoDI 8570.01-M Information Assurance Technical (IAT) level II certification and CompTIA Security+ CE certified(COMP001021416864). Desire a challenging SYSAD/IT role working in the Atlanta, GA area and/or traveling to offsite locations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Leidos, 2nd Special Operations Squadron - Hurlburt Field, FL January 2019 to June 2019 Administration and maintenance support for multiple systems, end user devices and applications to include, Microsoft Office applications, Secure View, Citrix, XenDesktop and XenApp, Microsoft Outlook, Google Earth, MiRC, Omen/Mongo, Windows 10, and database archive support. VMWare Support with deploying production in virtual environments and additional systems including, but not limited to, NIPRnet, SIPRnet, FMV, and internal voice system, active directory administration and cross domain solutions.    Key Achievements:    ? Exercise good analytical and problem-solving skills when restoring outages and connectivity issues and do so under extremely tight time constraints with multiple platforms (laptop, PC, and mobile devices)    ? Assist with determining technical solutions for presentation to the government customer. Troubleshoot quickly and exercise work independently, submitting incident reports and remedial after actions solutions.    ? Strong technical presence, improving a capability or device performance through changes in technology or improved versions of the part or equipment.    ? Install, configure, debug software and hardware; maintain security and software patching of 22 bare metal and 9 virtual servers utilizing XenDesktop and XenApp.    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    ? Servers: Windows NT Server, Windows Server 2003, 2008 and 2012, Microsoft Internet Information Server 4.0, 6.0 & 7.0, Dell and HP Servers, Network    Attached Storage Device    ? Software: SecureView, Microsoft Office, Skype for Business, VMWare advanced user support with Citrix, IOS management, XenApp, NetApp, NetIQ Directory and Resource Administrator (DRA), MS Visio, MS Project    ? Networking: Cisco & Linksys Routers, T-1, DSL, Cable Circuits    ? Other: Mobile Device Management, Systems Administration, Tier 1/2/3 Customer Support, Technical Documentation, Troubleshooting, Project Management, Cross-Functional Teamwork, Training, Communication Operations Planning Manager Advanced Concept Enterprises - Hurlburt Field, FL January 2018 to January 2019 Systems Administrator on ground based classified network systems in support CV-22 Aircrew operations  ? Mobile Device Manager/ Administrator for IOS/Blackberry applications for Government issues Mobile devices with Tier 2/3 Level support provided to US Military personnel  ? Knowledgeable with TCP/IP fundamentals, routing protocols and other network fundamentals  ? Monitor Mission Planning System (MPS) network performance and troubleshoot and report system errors  ? Troubleshoot multiple Linksys/Cisco routing and switching devices in support of MPS software installations/configuration  ? Properly handled classified information on a variety of media on a daily basis; extensive experience with Classified Areas, cipher locks, SIPR emails, document marking, etc.  ? Led troubleshooting efforts and identified root causes of failures; developed and implemented procedures or improvements to prevent recurrences  ? Engaged in regular network troubleshooting activities and resolved network connectivity issues  ? Lead Operations and logistics planner; coordinate movement and housing of personnel and aircraft CONUS and OCONUS to conduct AFSOC CV-22B Mission Combat Aviation Advisor 6th Special Operations Squadron - Hurlburt Field, FL November 2007 to January 2018 ? System administrator on two classified networks; unit SharePoint administrator  ? Plans and executes joint and combined missions supporting combatant commander's theater security cooperation plans.  ? Extensively experienced operating in a tactical environment, alongside Joint military or DOD personnel  ? Assesses, trains, advises, and assists PNs in airpower application.  ? Successfully operated in a high security (physical, operational and Information Assurance) environment daily  ? Develops lesson plans, syllabi and bilingually instructs partner nation (PN) counterparts in combat operations  ? Experience with multiple communication devices such as TACLANES, Firewalls, Proxy Servers, COMSEC fill devices, SATCOM and knowledgeable loading CRYPTO on PRC-117G and PRC-148/152 radios  ? Successfully operated in a high security (physical, and operational) environment daily  ? System administrator on two classified networks; unit SharePoint administrator  ? Participated with management in interviewing, hiring, training employees; performed periodic evaluations  ? Standardization and evaluation Special Missions Aviator; conducts flight evaluations for all assigned crew members on 3 separate airframes. MH-53M Instructor/Evaluator Special Missions Aviator RAF Mildenhall, UK - Hurlburt Field, FL February 1997 to November 2007 FL/RAF Mildenhall, UK  ? 2500+ flight hours in multiple rotary-wing aircraft monitoring and troubleshooting all major communications and weapons systems as Evaluator Special Missions Aviator. Providing technical knowledge and assistance to the aircrew through clear and concise communications.  ? Maintained and Instructed squadron Tactics, Techniques and Procedures as NCOIC of Weapons and Tactics, training and field testing our mobile Tactical Operations Center (TOC) kit  ? Fully supported, configured, maintained, and upgraded the 21st Special Operations Squadron networks and in-house servers both at home station and at deployed locations  ? Performed computer systems repairs, troubleshooting, software installations/configuration, hardware, and software upgrades  ? Managed TACLAN systems for SOF aircraft in garrison and austere deployed locations Education Bachelor's in Cyber Security Management University of Maryland University College December 2017 to Present Skills Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, SecureView, Windows 2008-2012 Servers, SCCM, Microsoft Office Military Service Branch: USAF Service Country: United States Rank: E-7 February 1997 to January 2018 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ CE November 2018 to Present