Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Township of Moon, PA To obtain a challenging position that enables me to grow on my past experience and continue my success in information technology and project management. Work Experience Systems Administrator Dollar Energy Fund - Pittsburgh, PA January 2006 to February 2019 Configure, set up and maintain VMWare ESXi server hosts and virtual machines  ? Improve network reliability, scalability, redundancy and availability  ? Monitor licensing compliance  ? Maintain, upgrade and configure servers including SQL, SharePoint, CRM and Exchange  ? Provide project management support and solution implementation  ? Manage and maintain disaster recovery solution via onsite/offsite backup  ? Communicate with outside vendors for products and services  ? Ensure network security via security patches, group policy, anti-virus, and firewalls  ? Manage and maintain documentation (succession plan) regarding network policies, security, and design  ? Design and implement new network infrastructure to scale with the expanding company  ? Configure DNS, DHCP, AD, VPN, and Azure servers  ? Assign duties and follow up with help desk technician Help Desk Technician Dollar Energy Fund - Pittsburgh, PA October 2005 to January 2006 Add & maintain network users and Cisco phone system.  ? Support onsite and offsite users with training and technical support  ? Perform server updates and upgrades  ? Implement group policy, firewall, and antivirus solution  ? Design and implement disaster recovery solutions and documentation Computer Technician Pittsburgh West H&R Block - Baden, PA September 2004 to October 2005 Installed workstations and server software each year in preparation for tax season  ? Diagnosed, maintained, and supported 12 offices and sub-stations  ? Submit weekly reports to headquarters team lead Computer Sales Associate / Tech Bench Best Buy - Robinson Township, PA October 2002 to September 2004 Assisted customers with a "complete solution" of individual computer needs / recommended the best product for that need.  ? Assisted part time on the tech bench (now known as geek squad).  ? Performed backups, data recovery, new computer setup, and break/fixes. Education Bachelor Degree of Computer Science in Network Administration in Project Management Kaplan University 2011 Associates Degree in Computer Systems Specialization in Computer Systems Specialization Pittsburgh Technical Institute 2002 Skills CISCO, DNS, EXCHANGE, TCP/IP, DHCP, LAN/WAN, TCP, VMWARE, VPN, SHAREPOINT, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2000, SQL, ETHERNET, FTP, SMTP, MITEL, LAN, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems Servers (2000-2016) Windows (XP-10) VMWare ESXi 3.0-6.5 (vCenter, vSphere)  Software SharePoint 2003-2016 Exchange 2003-2016 SQL Server 2000-2012 Phone Systems (Cisco, InterTel, Mitel, PrairieFyre, Oaisys)  Hardware Dell Desktops and Servers, HP ProCurve Switches, SonicWall Routers, Cisco Phone Systems  Network Features/Protocols LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, SMTP, FTP, VPN, NAT, Ethernet Group Policy, Print Servers