Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> San Antonio, TX Current Secret   ITIL Foundation Certified Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator United States Air Force March 2014 to Present Provide clear and accurate over the phone customer support and Remote Troubleshooting support to the United States Air Force & provide "how to" walk-throughs for common computer and data processing tasks via telephone interaction with users.  ? Perform all network, computer, and administrator account maintenance actions as required including computer, user, and administrator password resets via RDP & DRA/Active Directory utilities and tools.  ? Responsible for providing quality over the phone trouble ticket resolution via verbal and remote pc control trouble shooting of hardware, software, services, and peripheral devices along with proper & accurate ticket documentation, escalation, and closure in the BMCS Remedy ticketing system.  ? Assist with the training of newly hired employees in a classroom environment. Information Technology Help Desk Technician for United States Air Force Indus January 2013 to March 2014 Advanced Level 2 Technician    ? Provide clear and accurate over the phone customer support and Remote Troubleshooting support to the United States Air Force & provide "how to" walk-throughs for common computer and data processing tasks via telephone interaction with users.  ? Responsible for providing quality over the phone trouble ticket resolution via verbal and remote pc control trouble shooting of hardware, software, services, and peripheral devices along with proper & accurate ticket documentation, escalation, and closure in the BMCS Remedy ticketing system.  ? Perform all network, computer, and administrator account maintenance actions as required including computer, user, and administrator password resets via RDP & DRA/Active Directory utilities and tools. Tier 1 Help Desk Technician Indus June 2013 to December 2013 Responsible for providing quality troubleshooting steps for iPhones, iPads, iMacs, and iPods over the phone.  ? Preformed warranty requests for customers and explaining the different types of solutions involving warranty for their product. Education B.A. University of Texas San Antonio B.A. Criminal Justice - San Antonio, TX 2011 Security + CE Incarnate Word High School - San Antonio, TX 2007 Skills System Administration (3 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: Ctr Awards Awarded Employee of the Month Award, Information Innovators, October 2014 Awarded Employee of the Quarter, Information Innovators, November 2014 Awarded Resolving over 15,000 Tickets, Indus, September 2013 Nominated Student of the College for Outstanding Academics, UTSA, December 2010 Dean’s List, UTSA, 2007-2011 Certifications/Licenses Security+ May 2019 Additional Information Motivated, Dedicated, Reliable, Punctual & Detail Oriented