Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Annandale, VA An Information Technology position with an organization where my proven communication, customer service abilities and Information Technology skills are valued while my managerial skills will be nurtured and strengthened.  ? Active DoD Secret Clearance Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator SAIC - Washington, DC May 2018 to Present • Use Veritas to view and correct server connection by using processes such as flushing, turning servers online and off while also switches servers over from one load to another.   • Responsible for checking logs in Cognos web interface, Veritas, Weblogic, for errors and running back ups.    • Responsible for checking and reviewing STIGS, running SCAP scans, run ADS loads for SIPR collection,  and reviewing ACAS reports.  • Access our console with WebLogic administration rights to start/stop/undeploy/deploy our applications. Technical Field Representative DMDC/TELOS - Ashburn, VA November 2017 to April 2018 • Performed Windows 10 software and hardware upgrades  • Installed and configured computer hardware, telecommunications components, hardware, computer applications and cabling.  • Utilized Microsoft Access database to track, update, and report on equipment inventories at each user site visited.  • Installed peripheral components, such as minor LAN components and cabling, monitors, keyboards, printers and disk drives on user's premises, following installation procedures Naval Contractor/Technical Solutions Rep 3, VIP Premier Support Hewlett-Packard/DXC Technologies - Norfolk, VA October 2016 to November 2017 • Configure, monitor, and maintain email application  • Monitor, operate and maintain software, hardware and networks for a computing platform for all military installations supported by NMCI (Navy Marine Corps Intranet).  • Respond to and diagnose problems through discussions with users utilizing steps of recognition, research, isolation and resolution.  • Promoted to VIP support in which I was responsible for Mobikey, Apple iOS support, Good for Enterprise Application and Thursby, Hosted Virtual Desktop and deployment devices.  • Specify users and user access levels by utilizing Windows Active Directory and Windows File Server  • Worked at our Resource Operation Center to maintain all network functions, monitor call volume, report and communicate outages to our network teams, and Update all SLA numbers for our enterprise Technician Intern Stafford Technologies LLC - Stafford, VA December 2015 to June 2016 • Troubleshoot Laptops, CPU's, Cellphone's, and the testing of tablet to ensure functionality  • Conducted Data Entry using Spice-Works  • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.  • Set up equipment for customer use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software Shift Supervisor Norfolk, VA March 2015 to March 2015 August 206  • Directed and supervised employees engaged in sales, inventory-taking, reconciling cash receipts, and customer service  • Ensure that the Pharmacy and Front check out area ran at a high efficiency rate along with provided Inventory stock and reorder when inventory drops to a specified level Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Technology Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA 2020 Associates of Science in Business Administration Northern Virginia Community College - Woodbridge, VA Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (1 year), Microsoft C++ (1 year), CIRCUIT BOARDS (Less than 1 year), EXCEL (10+ years), MICROSOFT OFFICE (10+ years), Windows Server 2008 (1 year), HP Service Manager (1 year), Remedy (1 year), Help Desk, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ April 2019 Additional Information Distributive Education Clubs of America (DECA) (2010-2012)    Computer Skills  ? Microsoft Office, Excel, PowerPoint, and Word  ? C++, Microsoft Visual Studios and DEV-C++  ? Troubleshooting Hardware and Software  ? Windows Operating System  ? HP Service Manager  ? Microsoft Access  ? Windows Server 2008 R2  ? Microsoft Active Directory  ? Knowledge of circuit boards, processors, chips, electronic equipment, and computer hardware and software, including applications and programming.  ? Proficient in Windows 7 and Windows 10  ? Remedy