Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Humberto Vidal, Inc Corozal, PR Work Experience Systems Administrator Humberto Vidal, Inc - Piedras, PR, US 2010 to Present In charge of IBM System with VMware as a virtual software. Windows Servers and Veeam as a backup. 45 stores connected using Windows Remote Desktop Software. Responsible of monitoring LAN and WAN. Programmer and Point of Sales Administrator 1995 to 2009 Hired as a full-time systems administrator following initial consulting role. Provide Windows administration, network operating center (NOC) administration, LAN/WAN/VPN administration and VMware administration. Also manage AD/DNS, wireless access points and load balancers.    Key Contributions:  • Improved system security through setup and ongoing maintenance. Delivered a cohesive solution managing Fortigate firewalls and containing all GFI software.  • Researched, recommended and implemented network enhancements that improved system reliability and performance.  • Revamped Veeam Backup schedule. Optimized system availability (averaging 99.9% uptime) and equipped company with scalable systems to support fast business growth. Trained employees across multiple departments and stores on network operations including log-in procedures, network management software, permissions, printing issues, security and use of software.  • Directed the implementation and performance tuning of Windows Server environment for client's global operations.  • Resolved a history of problematic network failure by troubleshooting LAN/WAN connections between multiple stores for a regional retail chain.  • Replaced major manufacturer's vulnerable network with robust security through joint architecture of firewall and DHCP.  • Stabilized, expanded and protected client network and PC environment. Built new file servers to maximize terminal server, file/print sharing and domain control performance. Education Master in Business Administration in Business Administration EDP University 2008 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems University of Puerto Rico 1992 Skills Lan/wan, .net, Visual basic, Visual basic 6, Security, Vmware, System Administrator