Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> “Why fit in when you were born to stand out?” ~ Dr. Seuss Escondido, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator A3 Education - Escondido, CA October 2018 to June 2019 Maintains student information in multiple systems, including but not limited to learning management systems, student information systems, and state reporting systems. Implemented and manages ticketing system and procedures utilizing K12 Insight. Director of Online Learning A3 Education - Escondido, CA June 2015 to October 2018 Created and maintained calendars, training modules, professional development, and company-wide policies and procedures. Supervised principals, attendance procedures, and facilitated yearly audit. Liaison for partner programs and providers, including resolving escalations. Oversaw the hiring process for educational staff. Principal Academy of Arts and Sciences - San Diego, CA October 2012 to May 2015 Supervised teachers to ensure student interaction and grading is complete. Met with leadership to plan for the growth and success of the program. Problem solved with other faculty to maintain a positive and productive atmosphere. Director's Assistant/Program Writer Boys & Girls Club of San Dieguito - San Diego, CA June 2011 to October 2012 Organized and executed a variety of specialty and day camps running at five different locations, including writing curriculum. Insured all programs are properly prepared each day, including ordering supplies. Organized end of summer family picnic for over 200 people. Substitute Teacher K-12 Del Mar Union School District - San Diego, CA January 2010 to October 2012 Taught in classrooms grades K-6, all subjects, and established rapport with students. Created lesson plans, utilized time management skills, and evaluated student progress. Provided successful structure and learning curriculum for students with special needs. Program Instructor/Program Writer University of Nevada, Cooperative Extension - Reno, NV December 2006 to December 2009 Wrote and taught after school curriculum at Title I schools and low income housing developments for the 4-H Club. Provided instruction in science, leadership, sewing, art, homework skills, nutrition, gardening and life skills to at-risk youth. Education Master's in Educational Leadership Point Loma Nazarene University - San Diego, CA October 2012 to Present Bachelor's in Elementary Education, Minor in Art University of Nevada-Reno - Reno, NV August 2006 to December 2009 Skills System Administrator (Less than 1 year), System Admin (Less than 1 year), Google Suite (7 years), Data Analysis (7 years), Database Management (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Multiple Subject Teaching Credential July 2010 to September 2020 California Teaching credential to teach all subjects K-8. Single Subject Teaching Credential, Art August 2015 to September 2020 California teaching credential to teach Visual Art to students grades K-12. Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nfjy8utbtl8sgqnh Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.