Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Information Technology Specialist Hampton, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator NAF - United States Air Force - Fort Eustis, VA November 2018 to May 2019 • Monitors, tests, analyzes, maintains, and operates multiple base-level operating systems and network platforms.  • Coordinates LAN installation, implementation, maintenance, and troubleshooting; reviews, evaluates and fine-tunes components to achieve network connectivity.  • Installs, configures, and troubleshoots network, and application server hardware, network operating system hardware, and peripheral network equipment.  • Provides proactive consultation, recommendation, and documentation to system users.  • Provides technical support for commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) applications and/or legacy systems, such as: RecTrac POS and other POS systems; current versions of Microsoft software, browser software, antivirus software, desktop operating systems, and network email. Systems Help Desk Specialist DKW Communications, Inc. - Langley AFB, VA May 2018 to June 2018 • Assist users with PC/peripheral/server/printer problems relating to hardware, software, and network configurations hands-on and using remote desktop applications  • Troubleshoots all Microsoft Office Automation Tools, Operating Systems, and Electronic Mail software, as well as any other Automated Information System interfaces.  • Validates user accounts for active and non-active staff; Manages user accounts; Creates, deletes, modifies, repairs email and user accounts and updates passwords.  • Supports the implementation of computer security through automated procedures, manual fixes, and customer interaction.  • Assists installation and implementation of small-scale IT projects local to JBLE. Oversight and guidance on said projects will be provided by Chief Information Officer (CIO).  • Maintains Air Force certification Time Compliance Network order (TCNO) security updates and packages. Installs, verifies and reports to appropriate agencies or staff. Directory Services Administrator Kforce Government Solutions, Inc - Langley AFB, VA August 2017 to September 2017 40 hrs/wk)  • Locally and remotely operate, configure, administer, troubleshoot, manage, and maintain Air Force Information Network (AFIN) directory and authentication services from Langley AFB, VA including server, software, Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) support, disaster recovery and restoration, and preparations for Command Cyberspace Readiness Inspections (CCRI)  • Ensure the Active Directory infrastructure integrates seamlessly with all components including network, security, and messaging, remote access and virtualized environments.  • Configure and manage various technologies including Active Directory, SQL Server, Exchange, DNS, WINS, DHCP, and Windows Server 2012.  • Design, maintain, and manage Domain/Forest trusts, Directory/Forest/Domain replication, Active Directory Group Policy Objects (GPO), accounts, and security groups. Information Systems Security Officer Planned Systems International, Inc - Langley AFB, VA February 2016 to June 2016 40 hrs/wk)  • Provided support of information Security Programs for divisions requiring TS/SAP/SCI access.  • Managed the overall program information security on classified networks TS level for the specified program offices ensuring confidentiality, integrity and availability of program data  • Provided technical and analytical assistance implement solutions sustaining, maintaining, and managing all information systems to include LAN/WAN and Personal Computer (PC).  • Developed and maintained service level agreements between the primary Joint Base Langley Communications Office and A5/8/9 to define areas of responsibility.  • Provided analytical and technical support for reorganization and relocation of divisions as well as configuring network software parameters for the new locations and ensuring organizational change connectivity issue are resolved quickly.  • Diagnosed, troubleshot and resolved network and system problems, account issues in Microsoft Active Directory and NetIQ Directory and Resource Administrator, utilizing Remedy and local A5/8/9 SharePoint ticketing system for accountability. Information Systems Security Analyst Huntington Ingalls Industries - Newport News, VA April 2011 to June 2013 40 hrs/wk)  • Administered classified Information Systems programs, ensuring compliance with U.S.  Government Agency mandates regarding information system security (NISPOM/OPNAVINST/DIACAP/NSA).  • Tested and implemented security operating systems, networks, and database products and provided client support on system operation and troubleshooting.  • Conducted risk assessment, provide recommendations for application design, and prepare security reports to regulatory agencies.  • Involved in a wide range of security issues including architectures, firewalls, electronic data traffic, and network access.  • Used encryption technology, penetration, and vulnerability analysis of various security technologies, such as auditing tools included in Microsoft Server 2008 R2  • Training lead for secure local area network; developed content and provided bi-weekly training. Wing Information Assurance Manager/Security Manager USAF - Langley AFB, VA June 2009 to March 2011 40 hrs/wk)  • Updated and renewed Certification & Accreditation packages in accordance with existing guidelines for networks/ systems and in compliance with DIACAP and DOD directives.  • Implemented policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access and documented in the local IA Microsoft Access database.  • Involved in C&A package data migration from local IA database to Microsoft SharePoint, allowing information to be publicly available to organizational leadership.  • Enforced IA compliance through IA Assessment and Assistance Program by performing inspections of unit security programs.  • Reviewed network configuration change proposals for compliance to information system and network security directives.  • Executed unit personnel security indoctrinations, including Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDA).  • Verified security clearances using Joint Personnel Adjudication System Education Master of Science in Information Systems Stratford University August 2014 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Columbia Southern University April 2011 Associate in Applied Science in Information Systems Technology Community College of the Air Force August 2009 Skills Help Desk, Tech Support, Service Desk, Desktop Support, Active Directory, Networking, Windows, Customer Service, Technical Support Military Service Branch: USAF Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 May 1999 to March 2011 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ CE February 2016 to February 2022 CompTIA Security+ CE February 2016 to February 2022 Additional Information Supervised and performed enterprise computer systems operations and executed associated information systems support programs. Performed network management, control, and security administration for classified and unclassified LAN/WAN and maintained proficiency in various networking protocols, including TCP/IP, DHCP, and DNS. Managed Information Assurance (IA) program to include COMSEC, EMSEC, and COMPUSEC programs. Provided information systems life-cycle management. Monitored software maintenance contracts and determined upgrade cost-effectiveness. Experienced installing, configuring and maintaining Windows operating systems and various software applications, including Microsoft Office products, physically and remotely. As training lead, developed training content for software licensing and systems security and trained hundreds of end users in those areas.