Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Hi-Crush Houston, TX I am seeking a Systems Administrator position in a results-oriented company that seeks an ambitious and career conscious person, where acquired skills and education will be utilized toward continued growth and advancement. Work Experience Systems Administrator Hi-Crush - Houston, TX February 2018 to Present • Responsible for the administration of Microsoft Windows servers and workstations, Active Directory, O365, Exchange, Azure, Teams and TrendMicro OfficeScan XG antivirus.  • Management of SolarWinds Service Desk ticket system, CrashPlan Pro data backups.  • Providing timely tier-III support and resolving hardware and software tickets.  • Migrated users from Microsoft Windows 7 to Windows 10.  • Created and deployed the standard HiCrush Windows 10 computer image.  • Created Windows 10 image for Dell Image Assist to streamline computer imaging from factory.  • Manage third party Level I IT Helpdesk Company to make sure they are meeting SLA's.  • Working closely with networking team to support Cisco Meraki servers and phones.  • Management of HiCrush IT related assets. Technical Support Analyst II Energy Transfer - Houston, TX June 2015 to December 2018 • Provided level II software & hardware support for Energy Transfer executives, employees, and contractors.  • Supported HP desktops, notebooks, iPhone, and Android devices.  • Administration of Microsoft Active Directory  • Completed migration project moving user's accounts from Windows 7 & 8 to Windows 10.  • Responsible for imaging new and reimaging existing Energy Transfer assets using SCCM.  • Installing applications utilizing the applications catalog from SCCM or packages server.  • Managing IT software licenses.  • Replace, repair or refreshing older IT equipment.  • Asset management. Technical Support Analyst II CompuCom, Inc - Houston, TX April 2007 to June 2015 • Provided level II software, hardware and break/fix support for Chevron executives, employees, and contractors in up to 6 different buildings in downtown Houston and 3 different campuses.  • Supported HP, Lenovo and Xerox desktops, notebooks, printers, plotters and iPhone devices.  • Responsible for repairing or replacing assets and issuing loaners.  • Management of Chevron IT assets.  • Management and setup of video conferencing rooms using Cisco WebEx and jabber.  • Chevron smart badge agent responsible for activating/renewing/unblocking smart badges and issuing temporary smart badges for new or existing users.  • Assisting call coordinators with dispatching help desk tickets.  • Assisting Chevron move teams with IMAC (Install/Move/Add/Change) support.  • Provided remote access support for offsite Chevron users.  • Worked as team lead with team members from different regions across the U.S. to diagnose and troubleshoot support issues. Technical Support Video-Insight - Houston, TX October 2006 to April 2007 • Provided phone and remote support for 30 - 40 calls per day for Video-Insight's line of software, capture cards and cameras.  • Supporting Microsoft Windows XP Professional, Windows Server 2003 and several different models of home and professional wireless routers and CCTV camera's.  • Troubleshoot and resolve issues associated with Video-Insight software.  • Installation, removal and cleanup of software and SQL engine that supported the software.  • Installation of drivers and codec's for video capture cards installed in servers.  • Router setup and port forwarding for customers to remotely view cameras over web browsers.  • Setup of SQL as single or multiple database and assigning appropriate IP address for SQL engine to communicate with database. Technical Support Stratasoft, Inc - Houston, TX April 2006 to October 2006 • Team lead of helpdesk responsible for 9 employees. 5 in Houston, 1 in Canada, 1 in Dallas and 2 in Lahore, Pakistan.  • Provided 24/7 level I & II remote support to Stratasoft customers worldwide.  • Supported Microsoft Windows NT, 9x, 2000 and XP as well as Server 2003.  • Troubleshooting and resolution of SQL and FoxPro issues.  • Completed network cabling project in office pulling cat5e cable from network closet to user desks. Toning network cables for separation of data from phone and punching down at both ends.  • Creation and resolution of trouble tickets using in house ticketing system.  • Worked with software team to resolve client issues. IT Asset Analyst ExxonMobil - Houston, TX August 2004 to February 2006 • Provided desktop support for ExxonMobil 7500 Houston clients supporting software and hardware related issues.  • Asset management of ExxonMobil's IT equipment.  • Deployed and maintained HP printers, scanners and fax machines.  • Hardware IMAC (Install, Move, Add, Change) for Dell laptops, desktop and monitors.  • Supported Microsoft Windows NT, 9x, 2000 and XP.  • Hardware and software distribution between Houston area sites.  • Shipping and receiving of ExxonMobil's computer hardware and software.  • Completed ExxonMobil's XME refresh project consisting of replacing out of date computing equipment with new Dell models and Windows XP. Education Associate in Computer Systems Technology MTI College - Clear Lake, TX October 2004 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, MCSA, REMEDY, TCP/IP, System Administrator, System Admin, SCCM, Linux Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional MCSA: Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate Server 2016 Cisco CCENT CompTIA A+