Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System administrator/ Sr. Network Engenieer Bowie, MD Support involving the AD Management, Wind Server 2008/12/16, Exchange Server 2013/16 , WSUS, SCCM, CUCM Call Manager V11, VMware ESXi Host / vCenter V.6.0/6.7, Office 365 , Cloud Solutions and IBM AS/400 technology.  Experience in the field of information technology (IT) and recognized for delivering leading edge solutions that consistent meet complex business requirements.  Provide networking solutions that both accommodate special needs on time and within budget.    Consistently managed numerous simultaneous technical projects / lead engineer for many client-related branch openings, installs & upgrades.    With a B.S. degree in Systems Engineering, have held key managerial positions with consistently increased responsibilities, including IT Management/Project Management/ System Administrator/  Sr. Network Engineer in the private sector, in the Financial, Manufacturing and Technology industries as well as at the Local Government level.    Always working in the Innovation because it is crucial to any business for many reasons, so it is imperative that the business company be up to date with all of the relevant technological upgrades.    Adept in building strong relationships with IT staff, customers, vendors and third-party contractors. Work Experience Systems Administrator The NERDS Group. - Silver Spring, MD May 2019 to Present -   Support and troubleshoot involving with the Catalogic DPX Daily Backup system. The backup system support around 500+ Windows/Linux Servers for the MDOT(Maryland Department of Transportation).    - Working to create the Backup process (SOP). Systems Administrator Alexandria Redevelopment Housing Authority, VA - Alexandria, VA September 2004 to December 2018 The SCCM allows to manage the ARHA's computers /laptops /tables /servers on six (6) locations, License and Inventory Management (SW/HW), Remote access management, Deployment application, Software Update management (Microsoft update process -synchronization), Operation System Deployment, Configure State Migration, Create the Users/Device Collections, Compliance Management, Reporting and Monitoring tools.  · Oversee internal and external day-to day IT operations of ARHA, Providing overall management of technology vendor(s), development the IT governance model, and a comprehensive on-going IT project management plan.  · Oversee investments in technology hardware, software, and talent to meets the goals and objective of ARHA. Ensure that all initiatives in the IT portfolio have clear business goals and success metrics.  · Management and work with the cloud vendors to keep the high performance and availability the cloud solutions (TENMAST/ Visitor system integration (iView system and Cloud Backup)).  · Implement the redundant Internet Service.  · Responsible for creating and administering disaster plans that will keep the company functional in the event of a crisis.  · Provide strategic direction and vision to direct the overall design of ARHA’s technology platform to ensure that ARHA’s current and future business goals can be met.  · Determine the rationale and methods for upgrading company network software programs each time an update is released.  · Initially, this role will oversee and direct technology vendors and technology project teams.  ·  Analyze user needs, specify system requirements /or assist user in implementing selected applications.  ·  AD Management, Wind Server 2008/12/16, Exchange 2013/16, TCP/IP,LAN, WAN,DNS,DHCP, Cisco Switches, (WSUS), SCCM 2012, Office 365, Windows 7/8/10, VMware ESXi Host / vCenter v6.0/v6.7 and cloud solutions.  ·   Assist with the preparation of various project, plans and schedules, including requirements, tasks, resources, milestones, review points and reporting.  ·        Spiceworks Helpdesk system Management.  ·        Support users and troubleshoot involving Citrix Receiver.  ·        Support users and troubleshoot involving with the Interactive Phone System Respond (IVR).  ·        Support and troubleshoot involving with the CUCM Call Manager (VOIP) v11, Intercom features and Cisco Jabber.  ·        Active Director Management will be including User accounts, Email’s accounts, Computers, Distribution Group, Security Group, Contacts Group, Share Folder and Helpdesk Delegation.  ·         Computer equipment disposal.  ·        The management of the network printers and Xerox Copiers.  ·         Maintenance Windows Servers 2008/12/16 (this involve updating, rebooting, patching, and performing general maintenance).  ·         Develop and implemented training plans for end-users.  ·         Customer service experience.  ·         Security Camera systems – Technical infrastructure support for seven (7) locations. Project Manager, Cap Computer Consultants, Inc - Kensington, MD November 1999 to February 2004 • Designed and developed the new ERP-Web-Financial application including A/R, A/P, GL, and Inventory Control Modules using DB2.  • Provided IBM AS/400 -Application's Maintenance and Development and client's support to the following enterprises:  Corporate Jet Sales (Airplanes brokerage).  With sales exceeding 500 million per year and s offices in NYC, Chicago and VA.    Mail Marketing Systems (Bulk Mailing systems)  Nationwide electronic mailing system, exceeding 1 million per month.    International Union of Painters and Allied Trades  Labor Union with 150.000 members and 500 local offices throughout the USA and Canada. Systems Specialist XEROX Corporate - Bogota, CO July 1998 to October 1999 • IBM AS/400 Application's Maintenance and Development leadership  • Normalization and Relational Database Performance  • User's requirement support  • Production Plan  • Implementation of applications developed on visual Basic using ORACLE Database.  • Conversion and migration process from AS/400 to ORACLE (Financial Application)  • PL/SQL programs analysis, design and implementation.  • Report generation through 'Reports Tools'.  • Basic consult and maintenance Forms generation  • Analysis and design of new applications  • Involved in code walk through and testing of other modules. Education Bachelor's in Systems Engineers INCCA University - Bogota February 1980 to November 1988 Skills Active Director Management, (10+ years), Windows Server 2008/12/16 (9 years), Exchange Sever 2013-16, (6 years), VMware ESXi Host / vCenter Technology version 6.5 and 6.7 (4 years), CISCO Call Manager (10+ years), TCP-IP Protocol(LAN-WAN) (10+ years), Cloud Backup Solution, (5 years), ERP System (8 years), IBM AS/400 administrator/Application’s Maintenance and Development leadership Supported clients (10+ years), SCCM 2012 (2 years), Administer / deploy Symantec anti-virus software (10+ years), Cisco switch/ routes (8 years), Windows 7/8/10 (8 years), PowerShell Scripts (2 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses IBM Certifications: PMP, AS/400 RPG III-IV (Registration # EF8DTT6219), June 2000 to June 2000 also the DB Design and Coding, CL Programming, interactive program design, SQL, System Administration and control certifications too. WESTLAKE - Java Development April 2007 to April 2007 WESTLAKE - Advanced Java Development May 2009 to May 2009 ORACLE Account Receivables June 1999 to June 1999 ORACLE Account Payables May 1999 to May 1999 Cisco Call Managet May 2007 to Present Additional Information Skills    Active Director Management, Windows Server 2008/12/16, Exchange Sever 2013-16, Office 365,  Windows 7/8/10, VMware ESXi Host / vCenter Technology, Citrix Receiver, TCP-IP Protocol, Help  Desk system, Cloud Backup Solution, Dell SonicWALL, VPN Site to Site, SSLVPN, CISCO Call  Manager, Cisco Switches/Routers, Fiber optic, Dell EMC Storage Technology, Email filter, Web  Content filter, Symantec Anti-Virus solution, IBM AS/400 technology, CL, SQL, RPG ILE, RPG FREE,  Store Procedure, JavaScript, WebSphere, HTML on the DB2 Data Base, Oracle Data Base, lPL /SQL.    Manuel Ramos 11/12/2018