Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Dearborn Heights, MI Technically skilled and quality-driven Information Technology professional with over 9+ years of technical, analytical, and customer support experience with various organizations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Epsilon Data Management - West Chicago, IL September 2014 to Present • Oversees 6k Enterprise local systems activities with 24/7/365 support.  • Manage team of 16 technicians at six sites.  • Researched, planned and designed infrastructure solutions and configurations across various platforms.  • Develop and overlooked multiple projects and associate budgets, SLA & constraints.  • Extensive knowledge of Firewall, DHCP, TCP/IP, DNS, UDP, SNMP, SMTP, FTP, VPN, SSH, Nagios, Cloud backup and recovery. Wireshark, SharePoint, Citrix XEN, ControlUp console VDI, VMware, Webex, Microsoft Exchange, Active Directory, Casper, MDM and DEP.  • Utilize Cyber Security Tool to protect and found vulnerabilities/ Firewall configuration  • Documentation of servers and network installation  • Coordinate IT and site teams to implement and administer Cyber Security Programs  • Support Local and remote users Worldwide, Over Hundred Locations (Onsite and Remote)  • Install, Troubleshoot and setup PC, MAC and iDevices & set up complete workstation environments  • Support VoIP Phone, AD,Azure, Microsoft Intune, Exchange and share point, Firewall Security, Network setup  • Provide XEN environment in XEN Director version 7.x and troubleshoot and modify XEN desktop by using vSpare  • By using ControlUp check XEN environment for performance and provide analyze overview  • Support and troubleshoot and setup VMware & Data center/VDI  • Server Support, Networking security and VLAN Config, Router/Switch Troubleshooting  • Assist, perform design, flow and create best network environment for Epsilon user & Support testing and issue resolution associated with the cyber security programs and possible attacks  • Manage all Mac & iPad through JAMF Casper Pro Suite.  • CA Ticket System and ServiceNow Support    Skills Used  SonicWall, Symantec, DHCP, TCP/IP, DNS, UDP, SNMP, SMTP, FTP, VPN, SSH, Cloud backup and recovery. SharePoint, Citrix XEN, ControlUp console, VDI, VMware, Webex, Microsoft Exchange, Active Directory, Azure, RSA SecurID, Casper (JAMF) , VPN, Cisco.ServiceNow Infrastructure Project Manager US NAVY contractor - Manama August 2013 to September 2014 Assist and monitor Tech in Installing, setup and troubleshooting Network Equipment Including Radar System  Help Desk, System Administrator, Server Maintenance.     Skills Used  Installing, Setup, troubleshooting, analyze and report. Senior IT System Administrator Tie National LLC - Aurora, IL February 2012 to July 2013 • Develop, maintain and monitor procedures for all server backups & data backup  • Assist in the organization and inventory procedures for all server backup  • Provide Network and desktop & IT support to over 90 users in two branch offices.  • Data flow Analyst, security and environment Utilize Cyber Security Tool to protect and found vulnerabilities & Firewall Configurations  • Installing and troubleshooting VoIP via Toshiba Phone system/ Telecom Customer Service Representative/Assistant Management/ Sales Consultant varies Companies - IL May 2004 to June 2008 Technician Project Westwood College - Woodridge, IL April 2007 to May 2008 • Server, exchange server maintenance   • VoIP, Toshiba, Trixbox servers/ Telecom   • Help Desk troubleshooting user needs  • Install and troubleshoot printers  • Assist IT administrator with duties assign   • Reconfigure the college network and Install New PC and software as required Education Bachelor of Applied Science in Information System Security Westwood College - Woodridge, IL October 2006 Skills Casper (5 years), Active Directory (8 years), Citrix (3 years), Networking (3 years), Exchange Server (3 years), Routers (3 years), Office Manager (3 years), VOIP (3 years), Vmware (3 years), Sharepoint (3 years), Mac OS X (4 years), Languages (10+ years), Network Security (3 years), Azure (3 years), System Administrator, SCCM, System Admin, LYNC Military Service Branch: ARMY Service Country: United States Rank: SPC February 2009 to Present Counter Intelligence/ Analyst and Adviser for US Military   • Assist and manage Local Translator in US FOB in Iraq / Kuwait/ Jordan   • Work and advise Enlisted and high rank Officers to better work with Locals  • Work in BDOC Monitor BETSS-C and make communication between USF-ISF   • Monitor, assist, collect, analyze data and information   • Advise and assist in security of the military base  • Assistant Administrator, installing troubleshooting PC, Servers   - Using Cisco, POP3, VPN, Active directory, DNS, DHCP, SMTP, SSH, TCP/IP, UDP, Microsoft product and working in towers and satellite/radar signal transfer. Certifications/Licenses Information Security Manager (CISM) February 2016 to February 2018 Information Security Manager (CISM) Additional Information • Technically skilled and quality-driven Information Technology professional with over 9+ years of technical, analytical, and customer support experience with various organizations.   • 9 +year experience in managing Win clients by SCCM & manage all Mac & iPad through JAMF Casper Suite, for 10000+ pc.  • 4 +year of managing sites with IT activities such as troubleshooting Microsoft OS and Office problems, connectivity to the network, email, printers, phones, phone wiring, and network wiring  • Effective communicator; proven ability to provide clear answers to non-technical customer questions.  • Skilled in needs assessment, problem identification/resolution, process reengineering, inventory tracking, budget administration & coordinate and prioritize multiple tasks.  • Develop, maintain and monitor procedures for all server backups, data backup &Windows refresh  • Communicate IT plans, policies and technology trends throughout entire organization.   • Extensive experience with Microsoft Active Directory services i.e. forest and domain design, policies, trusts, replication, and topology, Microsoft Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS) and integration with various products.  • Excellent understanding of network protocols.  • Strong experience in software deployment/distribution using SMS/SCCM, for 25,000+ pc.  • Good with Troubleshooting application and security related problems.  • Effective Team player with Good Communication and Interpersonal Skills.  • Experience in side-by side migration from SCCM 2007 to SCCM 2012  • Experience in AD to create user accounts, AD groups, GPO, OU & map drives & add users to AD groups, create new GPOs, modify OU structure, assign membership, reset passwords.  Skills:  Operating System: Windows 10/8/7/Vista/XP   Servers: Windows server 2003, 2008, 2012 & 2016  Deployment tool: SCCM 2007, 2012 & Casper  Email: MS Outlook, gmail  Application Suite: MS Office, MS Project, MS Visio, Adobe   Operating System: Windows 10/8/7/Vista/XP   Servers: Windows server 2003, 2008, 2012 & 2016  Remote Access software: TeamViewer, LogMeIn, Symantec PCAnywhere, RDP