Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I.T. Systems Administrator Tucson, AZ Proficient Computer Systems Engineer, highly motivated, 27 years of experience in Systems Administration   (UNIX, LINUX, Windows Server 2012), Project Management and VMware Virtualization Infrastructure Installation in multi-platform corporate environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Leoni Wiring Systems - Tucson, AZ October 2017 to Present Project leader or manager on small to medium projects for region Americas.  Develop business plans for the implementation of the IT computing solutions for manufacturing plants.  Participates on various Group Technical Infrastructure teams to drive standardization and strategic implementations.  Supervise and evaluate performance of assigned technical support staff.  Perform Analysis, evaluation, coordination, resolution and implementation of critical computing components within the Infrastructure Support team.  Lead development of critical computing components to enhance service delivery and support to customer base.  Installation, Administration of VMware VSphere infrastructure, Windows Server 2012 R2 operating System (Active Directory, DHCP, DNS) and Software Applications such as Enterprise Backup Systems (Veeam & BackupExec), Imaging Systems (SCCM & Empirum), Email (Exchange), Sharepoint and Ticket Systems (ServiceNow & OMNITracker).  Provide superior customer support service to customers ensuring best practices using standard operating procedures.    Key projects and Accomplishments:  Implemented Enterprise Backup System (Veeam Backup and Replication Software) for the Region Americas. This helps in protecting company data and applications in reliable storage devices.    Provided Technical Support in SCCM for Region Americas. This helps to keep all client computers up to date in security patches.    Administration of VMware servers, turning the system more efficient, cost effective and easier to administer.    Installation, Management and Technical Support to HP and DELL Servers, PCs and Mac computers. This help to keep servers performing at optimum levels and enhanced system productivity.    Successfully administrated Mobile Iron System to support mobile users. This allows users continuing their productivity while being out of the office.    Procurement of computer equipment and IT Services in accordance to budget regulations. IT Systems Administrator United Way of Tucson and Southern Arizona - Tucson, AZ July 2015 to June 2017 Administrate and support network infrastructure and software applications running in VMware and Windows Server 2008 R2 operating System.  Provide superior customer support service to computer clients ensuring best practices using standard operating procedures.    Key projects and Accomplishments  Implemented Sophos XG310 and XG125 Security Appliances and A100c WiFi access points.  Implemented VoIP Phone System Nextiva, switching from analog system.  Improvement of virtualization servers, turning the system more efficient, easier to administer.  Management and Technical Support to IBM Servers, PCs and Mac computers.  Implemented vRealize Operations Manager, in order to isolate and resolve technical issues with resource analysis and system alerts to ensure an optimal performance and availability of applications and infrastructure.  Installed IBM System x 36550 M4 File Servers to enhance datacenter operations and increase system performance for computer users.  Installed IBM System x 3550 M4 Servers to support the Virtual Environment (VMware vSphere), providing enhanced capacity to support more virtual desktop with better performance and reliability.  Successfully Implemented VMware Mirage Imaging System for the VITA program.    Skills Used  Network Systems Analysis and Design to implement hardware, OS and Security resources to support current and future computing needs. IT Network Specialist Arizona School for Deaf and Blind - Tucson, AZ August 2012 to March 2013 Provided system administration services to LAN/WAN Network Infrastructure, optimizing its functionality. This includes Red Hat Linux, Windows 2008 Servers, Active Directory, Servers, Cisco Firewalls/Routers, Cisco VoIP Phone Systems, Wireless Access Points, Websense and SolarWinds.  Provided superior customer support service to customers ensuring best practices using standard operating procedures.    Key projects and accomplishments:  • Management and Technical Support to IBM Servers, PCs and Mac computers.  • Implemented network equipment and related software. This included network servers, Exchange (mail) servers, Active Directory, Web Servers, VPN remote access, VoIP servers, routers, switches, Operating system, Application Servers, Internet access, firewalls, Security Cameras, network printers, and cabling systems.  • Resolved non-compliance IT audits deficiencies to be in accordance with State of Arizona regulations.  • Upgraded outdated HP servers to be functional with newer operation systems and virtualization products such as Hyper-V and VMware. This allowed improved servers performance on the Network.  • Improved datacenter efficiency by virtualizing physical servers into virtual cluster servers using Hyper-V and VMware technologies. This simplified datacenter operations, simplified Windows Server 2008 R2 server administration and reduced power consumption considerably.  • Restructured access rights to agency database systems. This contributed to enhance system security and be in compliance with State and HIPPA regulations.  • Enhanced data backup procedures. This contributed to ensure proper data retention policies and data recoverability in case of data loss or disaster.  • Documented and maintained documentation of all network infrastructure and configuration settings. This contributed to be prepared to restore the systems to its original settings in the event of a disaster. IT Specialist Pima County Accommodation School District - Tucson, AZ November 2010 to July 2012 Administrated LAN/WAN infrastructure and Database Application systems. Supervised network activities to evaluate performance, IT security controls, and accessibility to devise capacity planning and enhance systems functioning.  Develop business plans for the implementation of the IT computing solutions for Education Industry.  Lead various Group Technical Infrastructure teams to drive standardization and strategic implementations.  Supervised and evaluate performance of assigned technical support staff.  Performed analysis, evaluation, coordination, resolution and implementation of critical computing components within the Infrastructure Support team.  Project leader/manager on company IT related projects.  Provided superior customer support service to customers ensuring best practices using standard operating procedures.    Key projects and accomplishments:  • Designed and installed network infrastructure and associated operating system software. This included network servers, Active Directory, Application Servers, Web Servers, VPN remote access, routers, switches, Operating system, Internet access, firewalls, network printers, Exchange (mail) servers and cabling infrastructure.  • Management and Technical Support to IBM Servers, PCs and Mac computer.  • Programmed Cisco PIX firewall to ensure network security and system access. This contributed to enhance security and improved network traffic in the campus.  • Configured district's network infrastructure to perform at optimum level (PC, Apple and Unix-based systems). This contributed to maximize system usability and reducing downtime.  • Introduced VMware vSphere 5 to consolidate servers and implement virtual desktops. This contributes to reduce operating costs and improve efficiency and effectiveness of operations.  • Proactively designed and developed SQL database systems for student records management. This contributed to generated reports, having better control of student academic progress.  • Evaluated IT security risks, implementing Active Directory Organizational Units, Groups, Group Policies and access rights in windows server 2008/2003 operating systems. This contributed to enhance network and secure access to database systems.  • Implemented continuous monitoring, updating and auditing programs to ensure optimum network security and system performance in database, operating systems and file servers.  • Evaluated, tested and deployed educational software applications. This contributed to deploy learning systems in accordance academic standards in the state of Arizona.  • Implemented Backup System (Backup Exec 2010) to ensure daily backup of data and application systems. This contributes to recover company data and applications in case hardware failure or disaster. Network Specialist State of Arizona - Department of Health Services - Tucson, AZ April 2004 to September 2010 Provided administrative and technical support services to the State of Arizona DHS LAN/WAN Network and clinical application systems. This is in coordinating activities to install, ensure, protect, restore IT systems/services and maintain optimum performance of the network systems based on established IT procedures and security controls.  Provide superior customer support service to customers ensuring best practices using standard operating procedures.  Function as Project leader or manager on small to medium projects in Tucson.  Participates on various Group Technical Infrastructure teams to drive standardization and strategic implementations.  Supervise and evaluate performance of assigned technical support staff.  Perform Analysis, evaluation, coordination, resolution and implementation of critical computing components within the Infrastructure Support team.  Leads development of critical computing components to enhance service delivery and support to customer base.    Key projects and accomplishments:  • Integral part of the IT team that accomplished a complex system migration project from Novel NetWare to Windows Server 2003. This involved the installation and configuration of servers, Windows Server 2003, 2008 operating system, Cisco Routers/Switches, Firewalls, peripherals, Active Directory, Antivirus systems, Organizational Units, Groups, Users, implementing Group Policies and upgrading workstations to Windows XP.  • Planned and managed IT projects to upgrade PCs, Servers and software applications. This enhanced Network operations and improved user performance.  • Converted physical to virtual servers using VMware technology. This contributed to reorganize datacenter space, power consumption and to enhance the performance of servers.  • Developed training programs to educate computer users in the utilization of Software Applications, Hardware Devices and Telecommute Technology (VPN).  • Developed Crystal Reports for the Licensing Division. This helped surveyors to organize work load activities at the medical facilities they supervise.  • Coordinated IT technical specialists in the deployment and upgrade of agency's computing equipment. This contributed to accomplish IT goals on timely manner and minimize the impact of system changes on computer users.  • Provided technical support to Application Systems in Health care departments such as: Medical Facilities, Emergency Management Systems, Child Care, Long Term Care, Assisted Living and Office of Border Health.  • Trained computer users in the proper utilization of Health Systems Applications and the associated Hardware Resources. Systems Administrator Valencia International - Nogales, AZ September 1996 to April 2004 Planned, designed, installed and administrated a new corporate network infrastructure consisting of multiple file servers based in UNIX, Red Hat LINUX, Windows 2000 Operating Systems, Database Systems (SQL, UNIVERSE).  Project leader or manager on company IT related projects.  Developed business plans for the implementation of the IT computing solutions for Customs Brokerage Industry.  Lead or Managed on various Group Technical Infrastructure teams to drive standardization and strategic implementations.  Supervised and evaluated performance of assigned technical support staff.  Performed Analysis, evaluation, coordination, resolution and implementation of critical computing components within the organization.  Lead development of critical computing components to enhance service delivery and support to customer base.    Key projects and accomplishments:  • Evaluated corporate IT infrastructure, designed and Installed UNIX AIX, Red Hat Linux and Windows servers, Storage Devices, Disaster Recovery Servers, Backup systems, cabling systems, network peripherals and new Database system for Custom Brokerage Industry. This enhanced the data processing capabilities, network security, reliability and accessibility of the systems and turned the company more competitive and efficient in the market.  • Procurement of computer equipment and IT Services in accordance to budget regulations.  • Administrated Database and Application Systems for Customs Brokerage and Warehousing operations.  • Designed and developed company web site using PHP and SQL Database, providing customers with online status of their importation/exportation transactions.  • Implemented daily backup routines to ensure system backup of file servers. This ensured safeguarding company data in case of hardware failure or disaster.  • Linked remote office locations to corporate office, providing Voice and Data Services. This enhanced the performance of the company in conducting business.  • Installed company phone system (PBX) and cable infrastructure. This contributed to enhance the communication capabilities in the organization.  • Implemented continuous monitoring programs to ensure optimum network performance.  • Installed and programmed Cisco firewalls to protect the network from unauthorized access. This reinforced the Security of the Network infrastructure.  • Introduced new computer technology to improve company services offered to customers, such as Windows (IIS), UNIX, Linux servers and a Web application to provide online tracking services on the importation of products.  • Saved the company over $12 thousand dollars in selecting computing equipment and software applications while maintaining quality. Education SAP BASIS ADMINISTRATOR in SAP BASIS ONLINE - Tucson, AZ August 2018 to August 2018 Implementing and Maintaining Microsoft SQL Server 2008 Reporting Services in SSRS New Horizons Learning Center - Tucson, AZ June 2013 to June 2013 VMware VSphere 5 Administration in VSphere Administration New Horizons Learning Center - Tucson, AZ August 2012 to August 2012 MCTS (Windows Server 2008 R2 Active Directory and Network Infrastructure) in Windows Server Active Directory and Network Infrastructure New Horizons Learning Center - Tucson, AZ October 2009 to October 2009 Employee Supervision in Management State of Arizona DHS - Tucson, AZ June 2007 to June 2007 Ethical Issues in Public Sector in Code of Living State of Arizona DHS - Tucson, AZ May 2005 to May 2005 STRUCTURE CABLE INSTALLATION in CAT 5/6, Fiber Optic TELCOM - Tucson, AZ September 2000 to September 2000 Interconnecting Cisco Networking Devices in CCNA UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA - Tucson, AZ July 2000 to July 2000 SCO UNIX in UNIX SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION OPEN LEARNING CENTER - Los Angeles, CA July 1997 to July 1997 UNIX SYSTEM Administration in AIX UNIX IBM OF MEXICO - MEXICO DF August 1996 to August 1996 B.S. in Computer Systems Engineering Instituto Tecnologico de Nogales - Heroica Nogales, Son. Associates Degree in Sciences Pima Community College - Tucson, AZ Skills Microsof Exchange Server Administration (2 years), SAP Basis Administration (MaxDB, HANA, SQL) (Less than 1 year), Active Directory (9 years), Vmware (6 years), Linux (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years), UNIX (10+ years), Windows Server (9 years), CCNA (10+ years), STRUCTURED CABLE CAT5/6 (10+ years), LINUX OS (10+ years), VEEAM BACKUP AND REPLICATION (VBR) (1 year), MOBILE IRON (1 year), SCCM (2 years), Empirum Imaging and Patch Management System (1 year), Backup Exec (4 years), DNS, DHCP, Email, HTTP, SSL, OSI Model, and TCP/IP protocols and applications (10+ years), Procurement, Budgeting, Forecasting, and Asset Management (10+ years), Leadership, supervision and team building (10+ years), MS Office (Excel, Power Point, Word), Outlook (Email) (10+ years), Linux Administrator, System Admin, Red Hat, Redhat Certifications/Licenses Computer Systems Engineer December 1991 to Present Professional License available upon request.  SEP Additional Information U.S. Citizen