Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Booz Allen Hamilton Bronx, NY I am a highly motivated self-starter who is fully committed to proving himself in a new career challenge seeking an Information Technology (IT) position utilizing my 5+ years of exceptional judgment and observation skills in security and 10+ years of analytical and technical experience in an Information Technology environment on a full-time basis. Highly familiar with a variety of servers, databases, remote access, domains, networking, operating systems, hardware and software.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Clearance: Department of Defense, Top Secret (SCI) with Counterintelligence (CI) Polygraph    CompTIA Security + CE    ITIL 4 Foundation Certification - IT Service Management    Hardware: Photocopiers, Canon C5255, Xerox C8035, HP CM4730, Canon C2030; Xerox Phaser 6600 & 7500; HP Scanjet Enterprise 8500 fnl (Change Toners, Waste Cartridges, Hard Drives, Fuser Kits, Imaging Units, and Roller Bars)    Domains: NIPR (NLAN), SIPR (SLAN), TLAN/JWICS    Software: Installation, Removal, Upgrades, Configuration, Troubleshooting    Windows Servers: NDEV & SDEV (Account Creation, Deletion, Password Reset, Unlock Password)    Databases: Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) (Trusted Agent)-Unblock Common Access Cards (CAC), Defense Enterprise Provisioning Online (DEPO)-Microsoft Outlook Mailbox Provisioning, DODII-PKIs (Trusted Agent), Active Directory     Smart Card Managers: Active Client, 90 Meter    Assisted with the successful migration and troubleshooting from Office 2013 to Office 2016 in 2018.    Assisted with the successful migration and troubleshooting from Windows 7 to Windows 10 in 2018.    Internet Browsers: Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, Safari    Operating Systems: Windows 7 & 10    Remote Access: Remote Desktop Connection, Bomgar    Additional IT Technical Skills: File Explorer (Admin), Microsoft Exchange (Admin), Microsoft Powershell (Admin), Remedy, InContact, Skype User Management (Admin), Citrix, VMware Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Booz Allen Hamilton - Reston, VA September 2018 to Present Provide technical remote support to over 2500 end-users in a fast pace environment, including troubleshooting, installing, removing, upgrading, configuring software and driver installation. Provide technical troubleshooting over the phone to deployed users all over the world. Create internal and external user accounts in Active Directory using a Microsoft PowerShell Script. Answer inquiries into the service desk via InContact phone system, e-mail, in-person, or self-help ticket at multiple divisions. Provide accurate incident resolution within established Service Level Agreement (SLA). Re-image computers via remote access. Provide technical remote support for Microsoft Office Suite, Adobe, Internet Browsing, and printer configuration. Create, update, and resolve tickets using the Remedy ticketing system. Provide Active Directory account management, Lync or Skype account management, Microsoft Exchange Account Management and Group Policy Configuration. Interact with clients professionally while exhibiting customer service expertise. Provision and deprovision Microsoft Outlook e-mail accounts in Defense Enterprise Provisioning Online(DEPO). Create, analyze, maintain, and review Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Systems Administrator Insight Global (6 month contract to hire with Booz Allen Hamilton) - Reston, VA February 2018 to September 2018 Provided technical remote support to over 2500 end-users in a fast pace environment, which included troubleshooting, installing, removing, upgrading, configuring software and driver installation. Provided technical troubleshooting to deployed users all over the world. Created internal and external user accounts in Active Directory using a Microsoft Powershell Script. Answered inquiries into the service desk via InContact phone system, e-mail, in-person, or self-help ticket at multiple divisions. Provided accurate incident resolution within established Service Level Agreement (SLA). Re-imaged computers via remote access. Provided technical remote support for Microsoft Office Suite, Adobe, Internet Browsing, and printer configuration. Created, updated, and resolved tickets using the Remedy ticketing system. Provided Active Directory account management, Lync or Skype account management, Microsoft Exchange Account Management and Group Policy Configuration. Interacted with clients professionally while exhibiting customer service expertise. Provisioned and deprovisioned Microsoft Outlook e-mail accounts in Defense Enterprise Provisioning Online(DEPO). Created, analyzed, maintained, and reviewed Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Armed Security Officer Andrews International - Sterling, VA October 2017 to February 2018 Operated Closed-Circuit Television Premisys Identification Management System, exacqVision Video management system and various electronic intrusion detection systems to monitor and facilitate protection of ingress/egress points of facilities and perimeters, and responded quickly to alarm triggers. Collected data from Premisys, then exported the data into an excel spreadsheet and forwarded to my supervisor, co-workers, and internal federal government security team. Inspected exacqVision Closed-Circuit Television every 30 minutes for any intrusion, incidents and/or emergencies and specify in a rolling shift log book. Assessed effectiveness of security/safety at assigned posts, and managed and conducted security risk assessments and recommended solutions. Verified credentials to ensure only authorized personnel, vehicles, and equipment is permitted in respective facilities. Protective Security Officer (Armed) Paragon Security Systems - Washington, DC July 2013 to October 2017 Operated Closed-Circuit Television, C-Cure, Smart Client, Sentry Beacon 911, Telco Video Management System and Velocity Identification Management Systems and observed the ingress/egress of personnel and visitors and the perimeter of the building. Activated various site-alert notifications and protocols to maintain the safety of the employees and assets in a crisis situation. Collected and wrote detailed security incident reports on property damage, theft, unauthorized persons, suspicious activity and other cases. Handled walk-through, hand held metal detectors, x-ray screening for visitor entry screening. Issued visitor passes to authorized personnel. Protective Security Officer (Armed) Master Security - Vienna, VA November 2012 to March 2017 Operated Closed-Circuit Television, Telco Video Management System, Sentry Beacon 911 and used various electronic intrusion detection systems that facilitated protection of ingress/egress points of facilities. Observed individuals for suspicious behavior and if warranted, reported suspicious individuals, activities, and objects to the Federal Protective Service (FPS) and FPS Command Center. Prepared reports on property damage, theft, presence of unauthorized persons and unusual occurrences. Verified credentials to ensure only authorized personnel, vehicles, and equipment are permitted in respective facilities. Interpreted written orders and provided verbal instructions and guidance to subordinate officers. Special Police Officer (Unarmed) CSI Corporation of DC - Washington, DC January 2012 to October 2012 Monitored and controlled the ingress/egress of personnel and visitors for proper identification. Instructed visitors during an emergency evacuation situation, and served as a First-Responder during a state of emergency. Assessed effectiveness of security/safety at assigned posts, and managed and conducted security risk assessments and recommended solutions. Gathered preliminary investigation information as a first responder to an incident/crime scene. Project Manager Verizon Communications - Silver Spring, MD April 2007 to July 2008 Managed and supported Central Office Technicians with mass move processes and interfaced with other internal departments. Created all method and procedures and Work Instructions (WI's) pertaining to projects. Served on the auditor's team to oversee the implementation of the Quality Management System and recertification for International Organizational for Standardization (ISO). Performed ASAM Splits, ASAM Upgrades, RT Splits, RT Re-homes, Host-to-host Re-homes and Host-to-Switch Re-homes. Informed managers with vital information concerning the roadblocks with internal groups. Facilitated weekly conference calls to implement current and future deployments. Attended meetings to maintain a strong focus on Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards and procedures. Local Manager Verizon Communications - Falls Church, VA April 2006 to April 2007 Managed Central Office Technicians that performed the provisioning and testing of all ADSL Data Network, Data Communications Network, Gateways to ISP POP and the Regionalized Consolidated Throughput Testing. Handled and resolved union grievances, customer complaints and other related customer concerns. Identified problem areas and implemented required corrective actions. Provided developmental training and conducted job inspections to determine adherence to quality requirements. Performed safety observations and conducted meetings to maintain a strong focus on Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards and procedures. Local Manager Verizon Communications - Annapolis, MD January 2004 to April 2006 Supervised Maintenance Administrators to assure adherence to policies and procedures. Managed the resolution of First and Second Level Escalations for all installation and maintenance work. Accessed WFA/DO, WFA/C, TIRKS and vRepair to create and review installation and repair tickets. Provided developmental training and conducted job inspections to determine adherence to quality requirements. Handled and resolved union grievances, customer complaints and other related customer concerns. Identified problem areas and deficiencies and implemented required corrective actions. Performed safety observations and conducted meetings to maintain a strong focus on Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards and procedures. Local Manager Verizon Communications - Washington, DC December 2000 to January 2004 Managed Systems Technicians that performed installation and maintenance of DSO, DS1, DS3, Digital (56K, 64K), Analog, OC3, OC12 and OC48 circuits. Accessed WFA/DO, WFA/C, TIRKS and vRepair to create and review installation and repair tickets. Provided developmental training and conducted job inspections to determine adherence to quality requirements. Identified problem areas and implemented required corrective actions. Handled and resolved issues including union grievances, customer complaints and other related customer concerns. Performed safety observations and conducted meetings to maintain a strong focus on Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards and procedures. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration University of Maryland Eastern Shore - Princess Anne, MD May 1995 Certifications/Licenses Security+ December 2017 to December 2020 ITIL 4 Foundation - IT Service Management June 2019 to Present Additional Information QUALIFICATIONS SUMMARY  Experience and discipline leader at guiding, influencing, and empowering others to maintain law and order with a proven capacity to assist diverse populations, and ability to perform under pressure and stay calm in emergency conditions. Knowledge of qualitative and quantitative analytical techniques such as: Literature search; work measurement; task analysis and job structuring; productivity charting; determining staff to workload ratios; organization design; space planning; development and administration of questionnaires; flow charting of work processes; graphing; and calculation of means, modes, standard deviations, or similar statistical measures. Dynamic and highly skilled at resolving conflicts and diffusing hostility amidst diversity with strong personal commitment to upholding the highest standards of the law covering work methods and procedures such as performance and production standards, and information of a factual nature. Highly dedicated individual who exhibits the highest degree of professionalism, a strong proponent of training and development, focused on improving organizational performance with strong and effective communication skills with individuals at any level and of all backgrounds.    JOB RELATED CERTIFICATIONS  CompTIA Security + CE    COMPUTER/TECHNICAL SKILLS  Office Technology, MAC Software & Operating Systems, Smart Client Monitoring System, Typing/Word Processing - 40 WPM, Passage Point, Identity Management and Biometrics, Premisys ID Management System, C-Cure Monitoring System, IT Requirements and Development, Adobe Acrobat Pro DC, Adobe Acrobat Flash Player, Data Integrity, Information Assurance and Cybersecurity, Microsoft Office Suite, Telco Video Management System, vRepair, WFA/C, TIRKS, Internet Research Techniques, Velocity Badge Monitoring System, Security Studies and Analysis, Lotus Notes, exacqVision Video Management System, BDMS, Sentry Beacon 911 by Conveyant Systems, Security Studies and Analysis, E-QIP, Telecommunications, WFA/DO, GCAS, OSHA Standards and Procedures, Hikivision IVMS-4299 Video Management System