Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - OVH US Hendersonville, TN Driven Information Technology enthusiast with Linux+, VCP 5, and Security+ seeking to contribute acquired skills. Works well independently or in a group setting providing support, administration and maintenance of hardware and software technology; Excellent communication; strives for continuous improvement; commended for ability to resolve difficult issues quickly. Talented learner who quickly apprehends new technology; able to impart technical knowledge to non-technical individuals. Work Experience Systems Administrator OVH US - Irving, TX April 2013 to Present • Utilizing Agora ordering tool and review Linux logs and Perl scripts to process bare metal and PCI orders.  • Troubleshoot API calls such as Get, Post and Push for possible ip, dedicated, or order instances.  • Using CentOs and Debian to perform task such as manage host, stop and start services on vCenter and vCD cells, create directories, navigate file systems, check file system usage, and install software as needed.  • Perform show commands and check for mlag on leaf switches.  • Created a training program to train current employees and new hires.  • Documenting all technical inquiries, develop and review contents for knowledge base articles.  • Handling responsibilities of providing 24x7 networking support in production environment.  • Performing production task monitoring of network, systems, and application status by using Zenoss monitoring tool.  • Responsible for first level troubleshooting issues, creating ESXi host, and creating ServiceNow tickets.  • Reviewing CPU performance, event logs and alerts in task and events within vCenter.  • Documenting all technical inquiries, developing and reviewing contents for knowledge base articles.  • Monitoring, troubleshooting and escalating infrastructure related outages.  • Operating and collaborating within a change control structure, obtaining approvals, and confirming resources. Technical Support Concentra - Dallas, TX May 2012 to April 2013 • Deployed all Windows XP and Windows 7 images and installed updates using LANDesk.  • Routinely performed incident reporting and remediation for Malware, Spyware, and virus prevention, detection, as well as performed the removal for all desktops and laptop for the environment.  • Created documentation for SOP for all new hires for desktop support team.  • Installed, configured, and updated all standardized corporate software and applications.  • Remotely resolved issues and installed software via LANDesk and BomGar.  • Performed technical support, including escalation of problems and incident identification with Subsequent resolution, while providing single point of contact for employee support. ADPE Technician / Desktop Support Specialist ITT SYSTEMS, Camp Arifjan, Kuwait / ESKAN AFB August 2009 to April 2012 • Delivered exceptional remote and on-site technical customer support 24x7x365, for over 300+ users.  • Utilized SCCM to upgrade 10,000 computers from Windows Vista to Windows 7.  • Remotely migrated 800 printers from Windows Server 2003 to Windows Server 2008 print server: reserved IP address on DHCP server.  • Ran a centralized service desk consolidation project to decrease cost, while maintaining a higher level of customer satisfaction.  • Was responsible for creating new users, password resets and managing accounts via Active Directory.  • Ensured IAVA updates are completed in a timely manner and ensured that the numbers of computers blocked are kept to a minimum; download software patches and updates for network users.  • Managed Remedy trouble tickets, OS level patches, software application updates, upgrades and configuration changes and IT inventory.  • Configured networks including user access; created new computer objects within ARS; troubleshoots and resolves issues; managed Active Directory; supported critical applications in the production environment; trains junior staff members and end-users. Configuration Management Analyst AEROSPACE TESTING ALLIANCE - Arnold AFB, TN May 2008 to February 2009 • Delivered exceptional software support via remote means to 130 end-users; primary liaison between vendor and end-users; facilitated training including revising training material.  • Identified, documented and resolved client issues; administration of accounts, assigned roles and privileges.  • Ensured compliance with CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration) regulations by auditing and maintaining current and accurate information with Dimensions. Desktop Support Analyst Internship THE COMPUTER DOCTORS - Sparta, TN March 2007 to May 2008 • Diagnosed, maintained and repaired desktops, laptops and printers; installed and backed-up Ghost Images.  • Repaired all laptop and desktop computers to the component level including LCD panel and motherboard replacement.  • Maintained network security: removed viruses and spyware; installed antivirus definition updates. Telecommunications Technician UNITED STATES AIR FORCE - Eglin AFB, FL October 2000 to September 2005 Software and hardware maintenance on Nortel MSL100 telephone switch serving 28,000 users; installed and repaired intra-building, subsets, modems and terminal blocks. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Business Administration TENNESSEE TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY - Cookeville, TN 2008 Skills Active Directory. (4 years), CSS (Less than 1 year), EMC (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (Less than 1 year), Linux (6 years), Microsoft Office (4 years), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year), printers (3 years), Python (Less than 1 year), Remedy (4 years), Windows Server 2003 (3 years), Windows XP (4 years), Servicenow (4 years), Vmware (4 years), Server 2008 (3 years), Cloud Computing (2 years), Powershell, Red Hat, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin, SCCM Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 October 2000 to September 2005