Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Indigo BioAutomation Inc IT professional seeking a operations-focused position. Experience with both AWS and Azure and a  strong belief in infrastructure as code and CI/CD to allow for faster, better tested, and more organized  deployments and development workflows. Work Experience Systems Administrator Indigo BioAutomation Inc - Carmel, IN September 2016 to Present Migrated onsite internal XenServer IT and QA infrastructure to AWS and Azure to reduce  reliance on on-prem equipment and move towards infrastructure as code.  ? Implemented SSO and MFA AWS IAM cross-account RBAC for improved security and access  between development and operations teams.  ? Architected and implemented a containerized Jenkins ECS deployment with dynamic build  agents utilizing IAM roles for improved security and high availability.  ? Practiced infrastructure as code using CloudFormation, Azure Resource Manager, and GitHub  while leveraging Jenkins for more controlled and rapid iteration.  ? Experience creating and managing Kubernetes clusters used in development.  ? Experience with Python and Bash scripting  ? Managed Active Directory, Azure AD, and Office 365 via Powershell and AWS Systems Manager.  ? Managed network infrastructure consisting of Cisco SG switches, Ubiquiti firewalls and APs.  ? Migrated onsite Asterisk PBX to Nextiva.  ? Deployed CrashPlan for end user backups.  ? Documented infrastructure and service changes in Jira and Confluence.  ? Worked to ensure auditory and regulatory compliance.  ? Responsible for all software licensing, standardizing equipment purchases, and IT inventory.  ? Responsible for end user technical support, new user onboarding, and terminations through Jira  Help Desk. Network Administrator Calumet Specialty Products - Indianapolis, IN January 2014 to September 2016 Participated in an on-premise Exchange 2013 migration from 2007, including DAG setup,  database creation, and mailbox migrations. Responsible for Exchange day to day. Wrote  Powershell scripts to help automate several aspects of managing Exchange (mailbox migrations,  database copies, mailbox creations, etc).  ? Upgraded to Backup Exec 2015 for the corporate office and increased backup success rates to over 95%. Manage backups of Exchange, vCenter, and databases, and other financially  significant systems.  ? Deployed and managed both Lync Server 2013 and GFI EventsManager.  ? Manage Windows and Linux server updates using WSUS and Spacewalk.  ? Lead on the configuration, deployment, and migration of Dell M1000e and VRTX blade chassis to  13 remote locations for server infrastructure upgrades.  ? Manage Active Directory and Group Policy.  ? Implemented computer imaging using MDT, WDS, and SCCM.  ? Follow SOX controls and change management processes.  ? Promoted from Help Desk Analyst to IT Network Administrator in April 2014. Education B.S. in Information Technology University of Toledo December 2013 Links https://github.com/kevingardner