Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Vantage Mobility International I am a dependable, determined and highly organized individual looking for an opportunity to utilize my considerable technical skills and years of experience in information technology. Work Experience Systems Administrator Vantage Mobility International - Phoenix, AZ November 2013 to Present * Completed Voice PRI to VOIP upgrade without any interruption to business  * Upgraded SAN and migrated CIFS and VM data without any interruption or data loss. This resulted in increased performance and 235% increase in available storage.  * Upgraded network LAN/WAN infrastructure with upgraded firewall, VPN and increased ISP bandwidth to 100mbps. Information Technology Consultant Winners Companies - Scottsdale, AZ August 2009 to Present * Migrated T-1 network to upgraded COX Business which resulted in lower operating costs, faster speed and increased security.  * Migrated Go Daddy Pop Accounts to Office 365 Exchange Server, without interruption to services.  * Performed Windows XP data migration to 4 new Laptops and 2 new Desktops to new Windows 7. Provided training and ongoing support to maintain productivity. Temporary IT Analyst (City of Mesa) All Staff Services, Inc - Mesa, AZ August 2013 to October 2013 * Setup and configured new Windows XP workstations for new city building location.  * Performed data wipe and asset management for retired laptops and desktops.  * Provided end user support from Help Desk tickets Clerk / Technology Specialists Church of Jesus Christ of LDS March 2006 to August 2013 * Served as a Ward Clerk and Volunteered over 8 hours a week to assist the Bishop with administrative tasks such as reading minutes and recording membership & financial information.  * Developed a standardized geographical mapping standard that has improved the accuracy and decreased the process to divide large congregations into smaller ones.  * Created a minutes recording system that has assisted Church unit leaders in responding to the needs of members.  * Provided website training to the members of the congregation which has improved communication among the members and leaders. Manager Alliance Air Conditioning - Mesa, AZ June 2007 to September 2012 * Administered dispatch scheduling system to provide real-time service call updates and work order information.  * Setup remote monitoring for cooling in computer rooms  * Developed a referral marketing program which generated consistent work and high quality customers.  * Created flat rate competitive service pricing that resulted in higher profit margins and informed customers. Mac Genius Apple Inc - Tucson, AZ June 2006 to June 2007 * Maintained Desktop/Laptop and OS X Certifications  * Software and Hardware repair on Mac devices and systems. Maintained goal of 32 in person repairs or 8 hardware repairs per day.  * Presented engineering information on how to assess if a particular technology failure is needed for failure analysis. This has resulted in a local team effort to assist in responding to current failures. Computer Technician Mesa Public Schools - Mesa, AZ February 2000 to June 2006 * Hardware, software and networking diagnosis on printers, laptops, PC and Mac systems.  * Designed a department website for staff and teachers to provide an organizational point of communication.  * Established a backup process for Kronos time clocks that directly transferred precise employee hours to the Payroll department resulting in improved efficiency, more accurate payroll records, and considerable cost-savings.  * Worked in a two-person team replacing 23 Mac servers that included transferring sensitive data without interrupted student access for a student body proficiency exam. This was accomplished in 12 days while maintaining a daily schedule of responsibilities and resulted in a significantly more reliable system.  * Demonstrated enhanced performance through personal integrity as evidenced by consistent prompt attention to assignments, punctuality, and attendance. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology / Information Security in Information Technology / Information Security University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ 2017 Diploma Mesa High School - Mesa, AZ 1999 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Terminal server, Vm, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin