Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Computer Specialist - Quadrant Inc Colonial Beach, VA Active Top Secret Clearance  Summary of Qualifications Accomplished, conscientious, and resourceful Computer Scientist/Information Technology Specialist with over 4  years of Federal Government Contracting experience demonstrating outstanding customer service. An understanding, innovative individual  who fosters a collaborative team environment to achieve desired results. Strengths include solid communication, problem-solving skills, and  strong ability to adapt to change. Work Experience Systems Administrator Bowhead - Dahlgren, VA August 2018 to Present Working in Remedy to update and close any tickets that comes within E department   Imaging old and new, desktops and laptops, to the latest version of Windows 10 to be sure all are in compliance  Working in Active Directory to ensure all user and computer profiles are setup properly with the proper permissions  Installing software on workstations per users request  Ensuring that all scans in ACAS are in compliance   Remoting into computers to troubleshoot daily issues and resolving Computer Specialist Quadrant Inc/Applied Computing Technologies,/FEMA - Washington, DC December 2017 to Present Utilize Microsoft Office Suite 2013 and 2010.  Configure and setup Microsoft Lync/Skype 2013.  Provide technical support to customers via telephone, email, and through Remedy tickets.  Analyze and troubleshoot software and hardware issues.  Identify and resolve issues pertaining to network configurations, web hosting, and domain registration.  Respond to queries pertinent to package details, e-commerce solutions, email configurations, and search engine submission  packages.  Create help desk documentation with step by step instructions on problem solving techniques.  Knowledgeable of PC setup and installation to include peripheral installations.  Imaging laptops from Windows 7 to Windows 10.  Assisting users with setting up iPhone and/or iPads to receive emails by using AuthenX and MobileIron User Portal Sign In System Administrator Tek Systems - Alexandria, VA June 2017 to September 2017 System Administrator on the Accounts Management Team creating Unclassified, Classified, and Top Secret Network Accounts  using Active Directory.  Creation of Network email accounts and Non Persona Entities on Unclassified and Classified Systems working with DISA.  Analyze technical data and resource requirements for customers In-processing and system accounts that have already been  established.  Use Remedy as an analytical tool to understand technical material that has been submitted by the customer or the Service Desk.  Modify customers Network Accounts by granting them permissions to shared files and folders.  Perform ongoing monitoring and threat analysis.  Analyze logs/traffic. Desktop Support Agent DHA/Federal Bureau of Investigation - Quantico, VA December 2016 to May 2017 Install desktops, portable microcomputers, peripherals, and software products for networked, classified and unclassified, and standalone environments.  Detect, diagnose, and resolve desktop and portable microcomputer software and hardware failures.  Create/modify/delete distribution groups and shared mailboxes.  Analyze and assess customers' service request and provide prompt technical solutions.  Conduct IT audits in compliance with policies governing the administration, utilization, and acquisition of desktop and portable  microcomputer products.  Prepare progress/status reports team leads.  Utilize trouble-ticketing software for opening/closing tickets in a timely and appropriate manner.  Prepare equipment for reuse or surplus of property actions.  Provide technical support for customers assigned to remote locations.  Perform software and hardware upgrades and installations involving multiple microcomputers configured for desktop, portable, and server operations. Systems Administrator DMI, Inc June 2015 to December 2016 Help maintain a customer facing, customer friendly environment in the IT Mart resolving issues efficiently to meet or exceed  published 95% SLAs.  Create and manage over 30,000 user and administrator accounts within Active Directory for the Department of State.  Use Remedy ticketing software to manage issues.  Troubleshoot and assist with high level ticket escalations.  Remotely train IT Service Center Technicians on using BMC Remedy.  Work closely with direct supervisor to maintain the Department of State standards for all controlled network accounts.  Install and repair software.  Deploy new assets to users with hardware issues.  Install and map users to network and local printers. Recovery Specialist West Asset Management - Fredericksburg, VA April 2014 to June 2015 Contacting customers with current and delinquent loan accounts in an effort to resolve issues and/or delinquent status.  Experience with LexisNexis and CBC (Credit Bureau Reports).  Greet and Assist incoming callers on multiline telephone systems.  Schedule and Confirm appointment times.  Accurately assess the consumer's financial condition by conducting thorough inquiries.  Tracks and maintain all customer accounts throughout the collection process ensuring prompt payment recovery of all outstanding  balances.  Perform customer account maintenance activities to include account reviews, reconciling aging levels, verifying account balances,  applying payments, monitoring collection activities, and updating accounts in compliance with established corporate policies and procedures.  Adhere to the State and Federal regulations pertaining to collection activities.  Meet corporate standards for call quality assurance and structure. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science Virginia State University - Petersburg, VA December 2013 Skills REMEDY (2 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (1 year), COLLECTION (1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year), System Administrator, System Admin Certifications/Licenses Security+ June 2018 to June 2021 Additional Information Skills  Microsoft Office Suite Provision of support services to maintain, sustain, and  C++, Java, Netbeans, & SML enhance IT programs and web applications  Remedy Conducting user acceptance testing of IT systems, user  Windows 7 training sessions, and provision of application demonstrations  Windows 10 Collection of information about incidents and problems to  Active Directory evaluate root causes; reporting findings and making  Mobile Iron (MDM) recommendations to upper level management.  BitLocker Leading users through diagnostic procedures to determine  IOS/Apple updates error sources  Troubleshooting to determine problems for operating  systems, applications and remote access, email, and wireless  issues  Installation, configuration, and troubleshooting on IT devices