Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Admin / Local Area Network Admin - Inserso/General Dynamics/CSRA Waldorf, MD Work Experience Systems Administrator Inserso/General Dynamics/CSRA - Falls Church, VA August 2010 to Present 22042  DHS\Immigration and Customs Enforcement\OCIO    • Provide Information Technology Site Support for DHS\ICE and FPS Users throughout Northern Virginia Metro Area and Harrisonburg, Va.  • Create, Maintain, Enable, Disable any ICE Users Accounts, Group Mailboxes and Groups through AD  • Install, Configure and Migrate Windows 2008 Servers to Windows 2012  • Configure, Maintain, Troubleshoot all user's computers remotely or onsite.  • Troubleshoot any network devices such as Routers, Windows 2003 and 2008 Servers, Printers, Switches, Tape Units and Computers.  • Provide the most efficient Network Connectivity for DHS\ICE  • Perform Daily Checks on Area Windows Servers and Daily Backups on a rotating basis  • Maintain DHS\ICE Policy Wise Server Data Backups through Symatec NetBackup  • Install, configure and troubleshoot DHS laptops with VPN connectivity through Wireless Aircards, IPHONE Hotspot or DSL Lines.  • Ensure IT operations follow all DHS\ICE Security policies and procedures  • Provide user instruction to ICE systems Users  • Setup and configure ICE Workstations using SCCM PXE  • Troubleshoot and configure ICE Custom Applications  • Keep abreast of any DHS mandated Technology, Software updates    Methods utilized to implement Information Security including:    1 Administer and comply with security guidelines within the DHS\ICE Information Security Policy and Procedures  2 Physical Local Area Network Rooms  • Secure Facility Management Policy  • Perform a risk and threat assessement of the Rooms  • Access Control of the Rooms  • Follow the good physical access practice    1 Logical Controls  • Server privileges are granted to the LAN Admin  • All USB devices are encrypted  • Install, configure and monitor Server and Desktop Systems virus protection as well as threat mitigation security software  2 Physical Controls  • Monitoring and controlling the workplace environment and computing facilities and ensuring they are safeguarded against any intrusion  • Coordinating for New ICE LAN construtions ensuring they meet ICE IT Security requirments  • Perform necessary requirments for Disaster Recovery in case of man made or nature related site disasters  • Production Input/Output Controls  • Information Handling Policy  • Removal of any uanthorized software or devices that are not approved for use  • Sensitive Security Information  1 Cryptology  • Ensuring devices ie Laptops are configured with latest encryption software  2 Access Contol  • Access to DHS\ICE network is restricted to users who are fully cleared for account access  • Computers are assigned on the network through Port Security any changes on swich location must be coordinated through DHS NOC.    Planning/ Analyzing/Developing Security Information System Programs:  Maximize connectivity and ensure security protocols are in place. Re-evaluate current sites to recommend upgrades, analyze site to system security, and enhance overall network performance. Consult end users to troubleshoot network connectivity problems and create strategies for greater network security by developing new security information system programs based on data retrieved.    IMPLEMENTING/MAINTAINING/ENHANCING SECURITY INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND PROGRAMS: Implement high-level security system requirements as issued in a continuing effort to make the network more secure and increase connectivity. Resolve new system integration issues with existing infrastructure to provide end users with latest connectivity technologies while maintaining overall system integrity and security    ENSURING CONFIDENTIALITY, INTEGRITY AND AVAILABILITY OF SYSTEMS, NETWORKS AND DATA:  Implement necessary measures to enhance and preserve system viability and functionality. Keep end users apprised of required changes in processes or procedures as technologies and approved protocols evolve. Network Engineer Spherion Corporation - McLean, VA November 2007 to August 2010 DHS\US Customs and Border Patrol\OIT  Travel to various US Customs and Border Patrol Sites throughout US. Provide Network Infrastructure support to US Customs and Border Patrol Sites. Coordinate and work with local US Customs and Border Patrol Office of Information Technology Staff on deployment projects with implementation of security procedure and polices. Provide the most efficient Network Connectivity for USCBP to allow them to perform their work to the best of their ability. Implemented and deployed new technologies for logical and physical security of the system. Support government IT staff in any Network connectivity issues. Assisted with testing of installed systems to ensure security strategies are properly implemented and working as intended. Coordinate with local government staff in keeping an inventory of all Network Hardware that has been deployed. Converted various Airports, Port of Entry and Border Patrol Sites from a Layer II network over to Layer III Network    • Installing/de-installing/relocating and configuring all distributed systems, network hardware to include but not limited to Servers, Switches, Routers, and PC's.  • Following proper Change Mangement Procedures  • Managing network ports and assist with all consumable capacities. (cables, labels, tie wraps, rail kits, etc.).  • Coordinate with the installation/extending/relocating/testing all carrier circuits to the network hardware.  • Install/Relocate/Manage Fiber Connections between LAN Closets  • Apply information systems security principles as part of the rollout of new images, servers and email systems. Implement network operations, and infrastructure protection to control access to mainframe applications, Internet accessibility, as well as various network applications and usage.  • Ensure that physical security measures are implemented on sensitive LAN and communication rooms, including specifications during preconstruction phase. Ensure all policies and procedures are followed as defined in Customs and Border Protection(CBP's) Information Systems Security Policies and Procedures Handbook, CIS HB 1400-05C.  • Deployment Lead during network and related projects, including migrations, deployments and electronic mail conversions within an enterprise environment. Determine the most appropriate principles to apply during various phases and make recommendations for improvements.  • Provide support and troubleshooting guidance for local personnel supporting approximately 500+ Border Patrol (BP) and Office of Field Operations (OFO) users within an assigned area of responsibility, including troubleshooting problems not resolvable at the local level. Current assigned areas of responsibility are the El Paso area operations, and New Mexico and Marfa Border Patrol Sectors area of operation. This includes Ports of Entry(POE's), BP stations and sector HQ, airports in the area." Technical Support II DataTrac\CSC - Chantilly, VA December 2006 to October 2007 USDA-FSIS Department  Provides support to end users on a variety of IT-related issues. Identify, research, and resolve technical problems; respond to telephone calls, email, and personnel requests for technical support; track and monitor the problem to ensure a timely resolution.  • Maintained workstations in Active Directory  • Migrate workstations to correct OU  • Maintain accounts in Active Directory  • Image machines using Ghost  • Recovered any data from corrupt hard drives using Knoppix software  • Setup Tandberg video  • Maintained VPN accounts through Enterprise Services Management  • Trouble shot any VPN issues over the phone  • Troubleshot any remote issues using  • Setup and configured Blackberry System Administrator I CACI - Falls Church, VA October 2005 to December 2006 Department of State  Primary support and maintenance point-of-contact for computer users via phone, email and Request Tracker trouble-ticket system. Support and troubleshoot Windows desktops and applications. Provide Remote Desktop and phone support for remote Windows users. Accurately and consistently document instances of hardware and software failure, repair, and resolution. Escalate trouble-ticket requests as necessary. Manage and maintain unattended installation system for Windows and NT client machines. Ensure appropriate hardware and software is in place for new hires. Provide initial computer and VTC network orientation for new hires. Creating weekly and ad hoc reports on requests. Install new PCs for users. Investigate and resolve hardware and software issues that require desk side visits. Setup and configuration of network devices. Create user accounts and assign rights and profiles for users. Image testing for Windows XP Rollout. Application testing on Department of State Image. Involved in AD Migration of users  workstations. Configure and install new workstations with Windows XP in an AD environment. Team Lead/ System Analyst BAE Information Systems Technology - Herndon, VA October 2000 to October 2005 Department of Treasury  Maintains installed systems, troubleshoots hardware and software problems, and repairs any inoperable systems or associated equipment.  Research and resolve network and remote access problems and system problems or issues involving other Computer Services groups  Test new hardware and software and developing implementation plans for new configurations.  Configures new systems by assembling the required components in accordance with user requests.  Setup computer systems and audio-visual equipment for meetings in conference rooms and other locations in response to user requests Hardware Technician/ Network Assistant Willkie Farr & Gallagher - Washington, DC February 1999 to August 2000 Installed and maintained PC's in a Network Environment  Provided desktop support to over fifty attorneys and staff on Software applications  Migrated over 100 staff and attorneys from Windows 95 to Windows NT 4.0. Training Specialist Learning Systems International - Washington, DC March 1998 to February 1999 Managed and coordinated a team of trainers at Social Security Administration  Conducted training for clients on Windows NT, Microsoft Office, CcMail and government applications. Developed training materials, providing classroom instruction or on-the-job training. Provided desktop support to clients at their desk side. Education Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics Canisius College - Buffalo, NY September 1993 to December 1998