Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - WAVE BROADBAND Las Vegas, NV Work Experience Systems Administrator WAVE BROADBAND - Bothell, WA January 2019 to Present Complete various projects while ensuring escalated complex incidents are resolved in a timely fashion. Liaison between IT Engineering and Service Desk teams. Third tier of incident escalation. Website whitelisting requests for call center reps in CDE environment for PCI. Swapped out-of-support Cisco switches and Palo Alto firewalls at Wave store and office locations in California and Western Washington to meet PCI requirements.  Key Achievements  * Documented process for setting up Palo Alto firewall from factory reset to deployment  * Resolved networking issues for SharePoint data center migration  * Identified client network endpoints on incorrect VLAN and adjusted to secure environment  * Enabled SNMPv3 on Network Printers and set up monitoring IT Administrator Service Desk October 2017 to January 2019 Front line for IT incidents and requests from Wave Employees. Prioritized incoming tickets and escalated complex issues as needed. Developed new and edited existing Knowledge Base articles to improve employee self service and simple incident resolution. Identified ticket trends and bottle necks in processes and developed solutions to increase efficiency and prevent problems from surfacing. Repaired Desktop and Laptop hardware and engaged OEM for more involved repair needs. Administer Key Card system.  Key Achievements  * Quickly excelled in job role and became a point of reference and escalation for the T2 IT Admin team  * Automated AD account creation for bulk call center new hire requests  * Became primary editor for internal and external facing KB documentation  * Automated the process for vendor call center account creation improving resolution time by a factor of 10 Technical Support Supervisor February 2016 to October 2017 Handled and resolved escalated supervisor calls from 1st tier agents and our customer service department for advanced technical issues. Performed customer call backs to follow up on FCC, and social media complaints. Provided small business customers priority troubleshooting to keep business services running. Escalated unresolved issues to the Network Operations Center (NOC) or other teams as needed and followed up with customers on the results. Helped Wave-G fiber customers using command line tools to start, stop and troubleshoot services.  Key Achievements  * Work with multiple ticketing systems resolving requests from customer emails, NOC and 1st tier agents  * Assigned to updating knowledge base resources via SharePoint, HTML and CSS editing  * Tasked with resolving escalated TiVo issues by working as a liaison between customers, TiVo engineers and other departments  * Track and Improve Net Promoter Score by coordinated action with various department team members  * Provide analysis on repeat call data and developed ways on reducing repeat call frequency  * Developed new one call resolution metric through Excel report analysis automation Technical Support Representative October 2015 to February 2016 Primary point of contact for Wave Broadband subscribers of internet, telephone and cable television services, assisting customers with technical issues in getting their services to perform to high industry standards while ensuring customer satisfaction through excellent customer service and engaging team mates when needed.  Key Achievements  * Meet or exceeded all performance metrics consistently  * Awarded for excellent customer service experience Senior Customer Service & Sales Specialist BANK OF AMERICA - Las Vegas, NV August 2006 to May 2015 Point of contact in cultivating and strengthening positive relationships with customer base, while generating and growing revenue across suite of financial products. Flourished in a high paced ever changing call center environment. Mentor and lead team members against aggressive performance metrics, ensuring customer service excellence. Work closely with senior leadership to assess and address training needs through development of customized seminars and materials.  Key Achievements  * Integral member of User Acceptance Training team charged with developing, testing and deployment of various internal systems, requiring travel to multiple call centers across country and abroad  ? Used the Agile development process to produce integrated customer service desktop application Managing Performance Variation Coach 2010 to 2015 Interface with associates to measure call performance and recommend improvements  ? Identify and mitigate certain behaviors to reduce variation in center-wide call statistics  * Excellent client satisfaction with client experience scores between 90-100% month over month  * Exceeded performance metrics in client satisfaction and call handling within top 20% of associates Customer Experience Coach April 2008 to November 2013 Facilitated classroom learning for new hires, locally and abroad by delivering comprehensive company information and performance expectations. Led on-the-job training in a class room and production environment for up to 30 associates, completing call monitoring and performance evaluations. Caterer, Cook Honey Baked Hams - Las Vegas, NV November 2010 to February 2011 Received, processed and delivered catering orders to business clients within Las Vegas, Summerlin Region. Also helped the kitchen staff in preparing holiday orders for in-store clients.  Key Achievements  * Drove a 26' delivery truck full of frozen hams from Las Vegas to Salt Lake City, Utah in a winter storm to ensure our neighbor store could meet their holiday demand. Client Escalation Supervisor June 2008 to January 2010 Handled and resolved escalated supervisor calls from 1st tier and 2nd tier agents and other departments involving bill pay disputes and client complaints. Delivered coaching to associates and managers as needed.  Key Achievements  * Maintained performance metrics in the top 3rd amongst a small team of Supervisor Professionals  * Help transition CEU team from Las Vegas to a new team in Phoenix and Los Angeles via virtual live training Account Specialist January 2006 to July 2006 Assisting clients in an in-bound call center environment by maintaining their deposit relationships and engaging appropriate teams for additional financial assistance. Associate Manager Regal Entertainment Group - Issaquah, WA January 2005 to January 2006 Managed teams of box office, concessions, and floor associates along with film based projection systems to ensure smooth operations and a great experience for movie goers. Also managed cash drops & pick ups  Key Achievements  * Mastered all floor associate positions within 4 months of employment prompting offer to management Education Associate of Arts in Higher education Bellevue College - Bellevue, WA 2004 to 2005 High School Diploma Liberty High School - Renton, WA, US 1999 to 2003 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Devops, Exchange, Firewalls, Networking, Pci, Citrix, Juniper, Sharepoint, Scripting, Avaya, Ivr, Linux, Ms office, Operations, Operations management, Windows 7, Documentation, System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information Areas Of Expertise    * Operations Management  * Skype for Business 2016  * System Center Config Manager  * Internal & Customer Facing IVR  * Documentation and KB Creation    * Service Now  * Palo Alto Firewalls  * Cisco, Juniper Networking  * Active Directory  * Avaya Site Administrator    * Windows 7, 8, 10  * Windows Server 08, 12, 16  * MS Office Suite 10, 13, 16  * Exchange 2010  * PCI Compliance    Highlight of Skills  * Zoom Conferencing  * SharePoint Administration  * Complex Issue Resolution  * Linux Desktop & Server    * Customer Experience  * Agile DevOps Practices  * Confluence Administration  * Open Fire Chat    * Meta web Hosted Voice  * PowerShell Scripting  * SCVMM  * Citrix XenApps