Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator La Habra, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator Altura Communication Solutions - Anaheim, CA May 2019 to Present My daily job duties include maintaining a small network of just over 100 plus users, most are remote.  Using remote tools like team viewer to resolve daily end users issues such as OS and hardware problems. I administrate end users in a hybrid Microsoft environment utilizing azure AD portal and office 0365.  I also administrate and monitor are anti virus software server trendmicro worry free business and  also are Cisco VPN server.  Work with third party vendors and isp's when needed.  Documentation of issues and also guides to fix known issues. Help Desk Representative New American Funding - Tustin, CA October 2017 to March 2019 • Account creation and administration in AD for users In an Office 365 and One Drive and Share point environment  • IT Helpdesk phone Support for Tier 1 and Tier 2 phone calls, troubleshooting daily issues for end users via Remote Assistance  • Track -IT Ticketing system to create and resolve issues as well as tickets that were received.  • Imaging machine creation end users and machine profile swaps for client  • Laptops and Desktop's as needed.  • PBX account creation in Free voice and IC and assigning extensions and phones and numbers to end-users  • Keeping track of assists of equipment to end users using a preparatory software asset tracking  • System. Support Desk Technician Christie Digital Cypress - Cypress, CA September 2017 to October 2017 • Special project assignment on Desk Raid check configurations on SMS and LMS servers  • am-doc ticketing system  • Raised Parts for replacement, and coordinated tech dispatches for cases. IT Technician Robert Half Technology - El Monte, CA January 2017 to April 2017 • IT temp and special projects  • Farmers and Merchants Bank as customer flow over calls with migration of new IT protocols for online  Banking account services webpage  • Liberty Utilities Help Desk, working with the migration from ticketing systems such as KACE and Track  It. IT Help Desk Technician Tilly's - Irvine, CA August 2016 to November 2016 Handling 25+ calls per day for Layer 1 and 2 Desktop Support remote assistance for retail stores,  local end users and offsite users.  • Setup new user workstations, Desktop Imaging  • Support for PC and MAC POS systems and mobile IOS devices  • Working Ticketing system for resolving issues by priority and within a timely manner  • Active Directory Support  • Hardware support for registers, 2Cr and TG4 printers and troubleshooting network printers  • Maintaining warehouse cage for PC parts and supplies  • Experience working with ISP vendors and work orders Server/Waiter Cabo Grill & Cantina - Brea, CA March 2012 to July 2016 Providing guests with excellence in dining experience and service. Help Desk Support Technician Obrien Systems - Brea, CA February 2010 to July 2011 • Handling 25+ calls per day for POS and PC support  • Customer specific builds of PC for desktop imaging  • Deployment and administration of POS software and Windows operating systems  • Maintenance and layer 1 and 2 troubleshooting for POS and Microsoft OS systems for POS through Ticketing systems  • IT Administration Support Supervisor Kirkorian Theaters - Buena Park, CA May 2006 to December 2008 Overseeing theater maintenance and food inventory. Responsible for cash counts and employee shift  scheduling. Department Manager Robinsons May - Cerritos, CA January 2002 to April 2006 Responsible for maintaining inventory, cash counts and employee scheduling. Ensuring guest  satisfaction by providing superior customer service. Education Associates of Science in Computer Information in Systems Cypress College - Cypress, CA 2014 Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0gxd24qyhqefjvc Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cx0xts6ugtbqmeqn Technical Support — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tdmivx-qgnx4vguo Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS:  • PC, Mac OS and Hardware Support  • POS Software Support  • Windows Server Administration in Active Directory  • Outlook and Exchange  • TCP/IP DNS DHCP Configuration  • Network Visualization  • Network Security  • End User Support Troubleshooting  • Ticketing Systems  • Configuring Data and Backup Storage Solutions  • Layer 1 and 2 Support Troubleshooting  • IPhone and IPad Configuration and User Setup Support  • Customer Service