Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - KSH, Inc Liberty Lake, WA Work Experience Systems Administrator KSH, Inc April 2017 to Present Tier 2 Technical Support: Provide superior troubleshooting and technical support abilities in system administration, including analyzing, designing, installing, maintaining, and repairing hardware, software, peripherals, and networks. Evaluate, monitor and enhance IT infrastructure with an emphasis on availability, reliability, scalability, security, data confidentiality and system integrity.  • Software Center Configuration Manager: Deploy multiple cumulative updates and a service pack update to configuration manager to stay current with latest Microsoft releases. Assists Tier III Configuration Managers in deploying Task Sequences and other applications in a windows environment to maintain compliance of all notebooks, workstations and servers.  • Assured Compliance Assessments Solutions Administrator: Provide subject matter expertise in deploying and optimizing the ACAS Security Tool. Assists Level III ACAS system administrators in implementing technical solutions and schedules of scans to ensure adherence to established Government and ACAS operational/technical requirements and standards.  • Host Based Security System Administrator: Provide host level protection for several threat vectors. Provide detailed report capabilities, real time asset status, central configuration management, and defense in depth protection of all cyber threats. Sr. Lead Computer Technical Support Analyst VENTURA GROUP November 2014 to April 2017 Managed two Help Desk personnel on the day to day operations of Help Desk functions. Sr. Computer Technical Support Analyst LOCKHEED MARTIN April 2011 to November 2014 Provided advanced technical support and services to end users either by telephone, e-mail, or on-site; relative to upgrades, installation, troubleshooting of PC hardware and operating systems. Sr. Financial Systems Analysis Administrator COMPUTER SCIENCE CORPORATION October 2010 to April 2011 Provided technical expertise in the use of all comptroller financial management systems. Acted as the liaison between the wing comptroller unit and the wing communication groups for all network related subjects and issues.  • Information Assurance Officer: Maintained accountable IT equipment and software products. Provided support for existing and future technology infusion as well as in-depth financial analysis of functional systems. Developed and maintained documentation citing financial system layouts, interrelationships, and sequences. Developed and maintained security procedures to guard against unauthorized intrusion to databases. Information System Security Manager UNITED STATES NAVY June 1990 to June 2010 Functioned as the activities accreditation action officer focal point and principal advisor for all command INFOSEC (Information Security) matters in compliance with governing directives and instructions. Analyzed and evaluated system security technology, policy and training requirements in support of National, DOD (Department of Defense), and DON (Department of Navy) INFOSEC policies. Implemented DON risk management programs and developed system security plans. Managed five aircraft networks and three local unit networks. Routinely conducted network security and vulnerability assessments and investigated the misuse of government information systems and networks.  • Information System Administrator: Provided basic and in-depth levels of instruction in Local Area Networks (LAN) and Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN), with focus on system administration. Prepared technical personnel to administer commercial network operating systems within the functional area of configuration, system and performance management. Managed internal site networks to include MS Exchange, NetWare, Novell, UNIX and Windows NT. Conducted first level network software and hardware corrective actions. Applied diagnostics and restoration techniques utilizing knowledge of electronic and operational system theory. Provided advice on limitations and condition of equipment. Implemented production control procedures including input and output quality control support.  • Communications Security (COMSEC) Manager: Developed and enforced the operational and communications security requirements for 278 personnel and all assigned aircraft. Regularly audited and inspected all COMSEC users for compliance with local and national directives.  • Instructor, Information System Technician: Instructed classes weekly on A+ Essentials, A+ Technical and Network + certifications in accordance with CompTia's regulation, guidelines and curriculum. Expertly instructed 180 students in all aspects of Information Technology to include: multimedia such as fiber optics, digital microwave, tactical and commercial satellites. Education CCNA Spokane Community College December 2016 CCNA Spokane Community College June 2016 CCNA Spokane Community College March 2016 CCNA Spokane Community College December 2015 Graduate Certificate in Information Security/Assurance and Digital Forensics Touro University - Cypress, CA December 2009 Masters in Information Technology Management in Information Technology Management Touro University International - Cypress, CA February 2009 Bachelors in Business Administration in Business Administration Touro University International - Cypress, CA June 2007 Information Systems Network Security Vulnerability Technician School - Little Creek, VA March 2006 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, SCCM, Host Based System Security (2 years) Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-6 Additional Information Information proficient in Windows software and hardware, Windows 7/10, Windows Vista, Windows XP, Configure File/Print/Domain with MS Windows Advanced Server, Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft Office 2007/2013. Running CAT5 cables, installing switches and routers. iPhone programming, TCP/IP, and Exchange.  Government: Top Secret clearance with access to Sensitive Compartmented Information.