Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Bennington, NE To obtain a position where I can utilize my extensive Information Technology skills. As well as expand on my current skills by learning new systems and techniques. Work Experience Systems Administrator Gallup Inc - Omaha, NE May 2016 to Present Manage world wide support and deployment of all mac systems.  Re-engineered and developed JamfPro systems to provide full MDM  capabilities to manage company Macs. Worked on improving Mac and  Active Directory integration. Provide secondary support for Microsoft  SCCM imaging for windows system. Help with security audits of Mac  systems and programs. Provide tier 3 support for all escalated Mac issues.  Support team of graphics design users with Adobe creative cloud.  Developed and conducted new hire orientation training. Developed and  conducted helpdesk Mac system training. Documented policies and  procedures for Mac troubleshooting. Completed selection, and  deployment of both our cloud based ticketing Samanage. As well as our  cloud Antivirus Sophos. Co Founder E&S Computers - Valencia, CA December 2011 to Present Provide direct consulting services to individuals and small businesses.  Performed system purchasing, setup and user training. Mac and PC repair  / troubleshooting. Provided data recovery services as well backup systems  consultations. Sr Desktop Support Move Inc - Westlake Village, CA May 2015 to May 2016 Provide direct support to both sales / corporate users on both Mac and PC  systems. Both in office and remote Provided escalation point for higher  level technical issues. Setup and maintained current WDS/ WDT windows  imaging system on Windows Server 2012 R2. Perform User setups via  active directory and exchange. Support Polycom, Join me, bluejeans  conferencing software. Became primary Administrator on Mac MDM  solution Casper Suite. Rebuilt Casper suit from single mac mini to VMware hosted OSX solution along with a Reposado software update  system. Provided training on both new hire setups and the Casper Suite.  Manage, create and troubleshoot Virtual machines using VMware  VSphere. High level supervision of Bitlocker/ MBAM management project Systems Support Specialist Conversant Inc - Westlake Village, CA May 2013 to May 2015 Provide extensive computer support for over 350 users across three  facilities and remote users. Performed new user setup and terminations  via Active Directory and Exchange. Primary support for Macintosh users.  Supported both native and 3rd party solutions (Centrify) for AD binding of Mac systems. Supported a variety of industry software from custom in  house marketing software to Microsoft Dynamics, Microsoft Lync, and Microsoft System Center etc. Provide direct support for Polycom  conferencing systems. Worked on Microsoft and Adobe licensing audits.  Worked with both Bugzilla and Jira ticketing systems. Genius Apple Inc - Valencia, CA June 2010 to May 2013 Valencia, CA - Genius  June 2010 - May 2013    Provide technical support to public users of Apple products. Complete  repairs on all lines of Apple computers and devices, as well as provide  internal technical support for the store. Provided training and systems  consultation to small business customers on Apple enterprise products.  Provide mentoring assistance to new members of the genius team and other new employees. Setup and maintained Genius teams imaging /  open directory server. Computer Technician Coast to Coast Computer Products - Simi Valley, CA January 2010 to June 2010 Provide extensive software/hardware support and customer service via  email, phone, and in person both on and off site. New user setup and management in Active Directory. Workstation preparation and setup.  Hardware and software troubleshooting. Exchange 2003 setup and management. Setting up new users, extensions and voicemail boxes in the  company PBX. Production Tech Level II HigherGround Inc - Canoga Park, CA December 2007 to April 2009 Assembled and performed QA tests on all server systems. Revised and wrote the Quality Assurance procedure. Provided extensive  software/hardware support to both internal and external users. Provided  software and hardware training to internal users. Worked with the development team to test new software and hardware configurations  provided inventory control and shipping for the entire company. Quality Assurance Test Lead THQ Wireless - Agoura Hills, CA January 2007 to September 2007 Managed small team of testers during final port testing. Oversaw the bug  writing process to ensure all issues were properly documented. Worked  directly with both the post production team and the development team to get outstanding issues resolved in a timely manner. Directed the testing of new cellular devices to verify their compatibility with previously  complete games and their technical specifications. Technical Support Specialist Volusion Inc - Simi Valley, CA September 2003 to June 2005 Provided extensive software/hardware support and customer service via  email, phone and real time chat to international clients. Assembled  computer terminals. Installed and configured software for multiple  servers. Configured and troubleshooted the company's LAN. Supervised  all Information Technology related purchases. Education Bachelor in Science Information Technology Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT 2016 to Present Associate in Computer Networking Systems ITT Technical Institute - Sylmar, CA 2006 to 2008 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ ce August 2016 to February 2020 CompTIA Network+ ce January 2017 to February 2020 CompTIA Security+ ce February 2017 to February 2020 CompTIA Project + Present LPI Linux Essentials Present