Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - DiscoverReady Santa Clarita, CA Self-driven, detailed, and multi-task individual providing technical support in a 1000+ user environment. Adaptive language to assist and can communicate with users at all levels of technical proficiency. Capability to work efficiently and successfully in a team or independently while troubleshooting, resolving, and documenting request for desktops, network, and peripheral issues.    Experience with;  Systems and Network Administration   System Security, Backup and Recovery   Server Administration and Repair   Mixed-Platform Environments   Technical & User Documentation  Technical Support  System Upgrades & Optimization  Workstation Installation/Configuration  Virus Detection, Removal & Prevention  End User Training and Support    Technology Proficiencies;  Platforms: Windows, Mac OS, iOS, Android and some Linux.  Networking: LAN/WAN/SAN/WLAN, VPN Architecture, TCP/IP, VoIP, DNS, Cisco Routers & Switches, Barracuda Firewalls, Active Directory Domain Controllers.  Hardware: iPads, iMacs, tablets, desktops, laptops, printers, scanners, projectors.  Applications: Symantec Endpoint Protection, MS Office, VMware Applications, Salesforce, Web Browsers – Chrome, IE, MS Edge, Safari, Firefox, Windows Server Update Services, Solarwinds Monitoring Software and Ticketing system, Site 24x7 Website Monitoring. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator DISCOVERREADY - Valencia, CA June 2013 to Present Promoted to Systems Administrator/Helpdesk Technician role to configuring, troubleshoot and maintaining desktops, peripheral devices, and servers in a data litigation service company. Provide technical support for internal and external remote users while using a helpdesk ticketing system.   Closed 95% of trouble tickets on the first call without escalation and achieved a high user satisfaction   Commended for resolving complex issues including system crashes, network slowdowns, connectivity problems, network shared drives, security breaches, virus infections and more.   Nominated five times for delivering outstanding technical support and customer service   Grant, administrate, and monitor user permission using Active Directory and Group Policy.   Manage and support VIP telephony system   Ensured all server hardware, operating systems, software’s and procedures aligned with organizational standards.   Trained users and employees across multiple departments on network operations, including log-in procedures, permissions, security and use of software.   Send daily reports on all servers, network switches, network storage attached devices.   Create and maintain virtual machines on VMware vSphere – including virtual Domain Controllers with Windows server 2012 R2, 2016, Citrix Servers, Web servers, and personal machines.   Set up networks at remote locations, configure and tune crucial infrastructure to ensure seamless business operations Configure FTP servers for internal and external users  Data Production Specialist DiscoverReady - Valencia, NM May 2009 to 2013 • Analyzed and comprehended case specifications for proper creation of programs.  • Understood and comprehended the process and purpose of each program.  • Education Associate of Electrical Engineering in Computer Science ITT TECHNICAL INSTITUTE - Sylmar, CA 2013 General Studies COLLEGE OF THE CANYONS - Valencia, CA 2008 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Active Directory