Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - KAMAX L.P Lapeer, MI Work Experience Systems Administrator KAMAX L.P - Lapeer, MI September 2017 to Present Provide Windows Server, LAN/WAN/VPN and VMware administration. Manage web servers, MS Exchange, Blue Cat DHCP, DNS, Cisco Switches, Wireless Controllers and Cisco WAPs. Supported two Data Centers with  complete redundancy via NetAPP SAN's with a Snap Mirror Configuration. Provide user support for 500  users with a team of 3 other IT staff.  Key Contributions:  ? Built out Data Center 1 and 2 with HP c7000 chasis with blade servers. Configuration consisted of 3  blades running ESXi 6.0 U3. Configured OBA's, iLo cards, and virtual switches within the blade chasis.    ? Planned and executed large scale network re-cabling project replacing all Cat 5e infrastructure with CAT6A inside of steel conduit. Managed vendor installation of over 1,000 network drops throughout the  entire facility.  ? Performed all multi-mode fiber runs to connect 11 cabinets in a standard network Campus design with redundant links to Data Center 1 and 2. Configured port channel reduancy in case of fiber link failure.  ? Designed and implemented organization wide Windows 10 migration plan. Migrated 500 machines of all  different manufacturers and models to Windows 10 using Microsoft WDS server with PXE boot.  ? Compiled all authentication information into a single searchable database for reference. Compiled all ISP  information, emergency contact, and disaster recovery contact information to combat any possible  disaster scenario. Management IWERK TECHNICAL SERVICES - Royal Oak, MI 2013 to September 2017 March 2017) Systems Administrator IWERK TECHNICAL SERVICES February 2013 to March 2017 Hired as a full-time systems administrator/network analyst. Provide Windows/Unix administration, LAN/WAN/VPN administration, VMware administration, and Hyper-V administration. Also manage FTP  servers, AD/DNS, Cisco Wireless Controllers and Cisco WAPs. Supported existing HA environments with multiple V-Hosts and Dell SAN's.  Key Contributions:  ? Planned and executed 19 Domain Controller rollouts/migrations across a large organization. Managed  the project on-site during the migration process directing entry and mid-level techincians on tasks while managing client expectations.  ? Performed over 100 remote migrations with Cisco routers, Access Points, VPN, and new internet  connectivity installations across the US.  ? Researched, recommended and implemented network enhancements that improved system reliability  and performance.  ? Deployed multiple Barracuda 490 backup solutions. Managed and maintained VEEAM and StorageCraft  backup solutions for Host-SAN environments. Performed test restores of entire server VM's.  ? Trained employees/clients across multiple departments on network operations including log-in procedures, network management software, permissions, printing issues, security and use of software. Database Analyst / Jr FIRST RECOVERY GROUP - Southfield, MI 2011 to 2013 System administrator  Wrote and ran T-SQL queries on SQL Server 2008 R2. Managed the databases and all backups for the organization. Worked with senior techinicans to implement SAN/SQL best practices. Created server VM's with VMware VSphere.  Key Contributions:  Wrote T-SQL scripts that were saved and used as a standard on a monthly basis to identify business  opportunities within the dataset provided across multiple client organizations.  ? Used Windows Powershell and Unix Cygwin tools to clean up/transform flat data files so they can be  imported into SQL using Data Transformation Services in SQL server 2008 R2.  ? Created new users in Active Directory, setup email accounts, managed passwords and assests for the company.  ? Implemented fail-over internet connection using active/standby on the Cisco 5510 ASA.  ? Managed DHCP & DNS with a team of techincians. Monitored network health between the client  machines on the network and the SQL server running on-site.  ? Configured Cisco wireless access point for organization. Setup mac address whitelisting to only allow  company approved equipment on the LAN. Lead Technican GEEKSQUAD - Flint, MI 2010 to 2011 Entry Level Technican 2008 to 2010 Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology OAKLAND UNIVERSITY - Rochester, MI 2011 Skills LAN/WAN (5 years), EXCHANGE (5 years), DATABASE (5 years), TECHNICAL SUPPORT, MS EXCHANGE (5 years), LAN (5 years), MAINTENANCE (5 years), DATABASE MANAGEMENT, MENTORING (3 years), TRAINING (10+ years), WORKFLOW, System Admin, Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware