Systems Administrator (Independent contractor) <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Independent contractor) Systems Administrator (Independent contractor) Los Angeles, CA Information Services Technical Support Engineer working on Routers,  Networked Wintel and UNIX systems and to continue developing my skills in network  computing environments. Work Experience Systems Administrator (Independent contractor) RFNR Accountants & Business Consultants July 2018 to July 2018 • On call IT infrastructure support.    01/08/2016 - 01/9/2016  • Inter office moving, setup and configuration of Windows Workstations and Printers.    10/29/2015 -10/30/2015  • Inter office moving, setup and configuration of Windows Workstations and Printers. Jr. Consultant, Storage Platform Management (Rose International Contract) Kaiser Permanente May 2011 to May 2013 • EMC Symmetrix DMX - VMAX host migrations:  ? Data analysis of 500 host using E-Lab Advisor & E-Lab Interoperability Navigator to generate remediation plans for host migrations.    • MySQL Storage Reporting.    • Installing\Configuring\Testing & documenting of SAN Management Software:  ? (Brocade CMCNE "Connectrix Manager CNE") for Brocade Fabric Management.  ? (Brocade SMI Agent for EOS) for McData legacy fabric management.  ? (EMC Unisphere for VMAX) storage array management.    • Tracked and updated all assigned Technical Support request with Remedy Ticking System. Systems Administrator Boeing Satellite Systems January 2004 to May 2008 Windows Server Support:  ? Installation and configuration of HBA fiber channel cards for attaching to EMC storage devices.  ? OS/application installation, configuration and support.  ? Configuration, upgrades and support on HP Proliant Server Hardware.  • NetApp Administration: create and support of volumes, qtrees and qtree quotas.  • VMWare Virtual Center Administration: server builds using VirtualCenter and P2V (Physical to Virtual) builds using the VM converter and PlateSpin tools.  • Citrix: create and modify user accounts.  • Imaging application installation, configuration and support: PowerQuest Deployment Center, Symantec LiveState Recovery & Symantec Ghosting Tools.  • ActiveDirectory Administration: add\remove objects and groups.  • DNS Administration using a RegInfo Tool.  • Legato NetWorker Administration: Setup\monitor\maintain UNIX & WIN2K backup clients.  • Vertias Backup Exec Administration: Monitor\maintain WIN2K backup clients.  • Responsible for client IT related requested through Remedy request tracking system.  • Participant of the 24/7 Windows Server Support Team on call rotation schedule.  • Disaster Recovery Focal: responsible for keeping DR documentation updated and participating in implementing and testing DR procedures.  • Experienced working in a documented "Change Control Procedures" environment. Desktop migration consultant PC Hardware Upgrades August 2002 to October 2003 • Washington Mutual. XP Rollout & Token Ring to Ethernet Conversion.  ? PC Hardware Upgrades: Installation of hard disk and memory. Replaced Token Ring  with Ethernet Card. Moved network patch from Token Ring to Ethernet.  Installation and configuration of XP pro desktop images.  ? Client data migration.  ? User support of desktop applications and print services.  ? Network Printer Token Ring to Ethernet Conversion: Replaced Token Ring with Ethernet Card. Moved network patch from Token Ring to Ethernet.  ? Installation of new network desktops and printers: Unpacked, assembled, configured and connected to network.    • Sony Imageworks.  ? Installation, configuration and distribution of Workstations with Windows 2000 Pro.    • Office Depot Business Division: Windows & Office 2000 Migration  ? PC Hardware Upgrade: hard disk and memory.  ? Installation and configuration of Windows 2000 desktop images. System Administrator Computer Associates January 1995 to October 2001 • Hardware and operating system/application support, installations and upgrades: NT/WIN2000 servers/workstations, Win95/98 & XP desktops & laptops. Configuration, test and deployment of UNIX based X-Term stations, Wyse, PhaseX.  • Application installation, configuration and support: Lotus Notes, Exchange Mail, Ms Outlook, Ms Office, PC Anywhere, Netscape, Ms IE and remote/dialup & ISP/VPN client software.  • Administrator of Local Area Network with NT/2000, DOS/Win95/98, Netware and TCP/IP.  Installation and support of network equipment, cabling and patch panel work.  • Management of two Network migration projects: LAN equipment installation, cabling, migration of approximately 50 systems: NT servers, Win95 desktops, UNIX machines and printers.  • Administration of NT and NetWare server: DHCP, DNS, user accounts, workgroups, volume shares, print service and system backups.  • Additional Windows 2000 support: Installation and configuration of Active Directory Domains for software development testing environments.  • Back up responsibility for a Legato server running on an HP 10.01 server. Also assisted with backup  responsibilities on RS6K systems, DEC/Ultrix project, HP based projects.  • Administration of adds, moves and changes on an NEC NEAX2400 IMS telephone switch. Facilities Coordinator/Telecommunications Administrator Locus Computing Corporation April 1990 to September 1993 • Manage and maintain Facility Data Base;  • Sole support of Rolm CBX 9751 software configuration, diagnostics and wiring;  • Sole support of Rolm PhoneMail software configuration and call processing configuration;  • Extensive knowledge of telephone wiring and patch panel boards;  • Responsible for programming ASSI CardKey security system;  • Coordination of internal company moves: furniture, telephones and computers;  • Purchasing of hardware/software;  • Back-up for shipping using automated FED-X Power Ship System; Print Shop Aid and Shipping and receiving Clerk Citicorp/TTI 1986 to 1990 • Responsible for receiving and delivering all company purchases, using a Database on mainfram to match purchase order numbers with invoice items;  • Created and maintained data base to track all photo copier maintenance;  • Responsible for ordering, maintaining company office supplies;  • Relief operator/receptionist on busy Rolm-CBX switchboard. Answered phones, greeted visitors;  • Assistant in print shop document reproduction; Education Introduction to Computers Santa Monica Community College 1988 High School diploma Alexander Hamilton High School - Los Angeles, CA 1978