Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Mulvane, KS Work Experience Systems Administrator DJ Engineering - Augusta, KS October 2016 to February 2017 Responsible for effective provisioning, installation/configuration, operation, and maintenance of systems hardware and software and related infrastructure. Participated in technical research and development to enable continuing innovation within the infrastructure. Ensured that system hardware, operating systems, software systems, and related procedures adhere to organizational values.    ? Administered servers (Windows server 2012R2 and Windows Server 2016), desktop computers (Windows 10 Pro), printers, phones, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.  ? Managed Hyper-V and Exchange 2013 environments  ? Perform system backups and recovery, using Veeam  ? Analyzed and isolate issues. Systems Administrator United Warehouse Company - Wichita, KS May 2016 to October 2016 Responsible for monitoring and maintaining a complex, multi-site, Windows network environment. Ensure that the IT platforms meet the needs of the customer and satisfy the company’s objectives. Ensures that the dependability of the platforms meet the demands of the different business units. Develop effective communication with customers and other functional areas of the company.    ? Support and troubleshooting from the OS, application and network level; resolves system hardware, software and networking issues; configuring, optimizing, fine-tuning and monitoring operating system software and servers; performing system backups and recovery and conducting server builds.  ? OS level application support, network and server monitoring and performance tuning; installation and configuration of Windows  ? Assist in the support of LANs, WANs, network segments and Internet systems; maintain networks and security, monitor networks to ensure security and availability. Systems Administrator The Golf Warehouse - Wichita, KS September 2012 to May 2016 Provide on-site and remote hardware/software, network security, and help desk support and solutions for entire organization, servicing over 175 end-users with desktops, laptops, telephones with Voice over, and virtual desktop environments.  • Planned and implemented VDI systems throughout entire organization.  • Deployed Microsoft Exchange Server company-wide.  • Programmed and deployed RF scanners.  • Assisted in setting up and launching new AS400 warehouse management software. Interoperability Test Contractor Workforce Logic June 2011 to May 2012 Developed, implemented, and executed test plans and collected comprehensive data for problem investigation for new hardware/software storage solutions. Inoperability Test Contractor, On-site at NetApp Workforce Logic - Wichita, KS June 2008 to May 2012 Technical Support Representative, On-site at NetApp Workforce Logic September 2010 to June 2011 Provided remote hardware/software storage solutions through email, phone, and instant messaging. Diagnosed, reproduced, and repaired software/hardware issues. Managed TSR lab.  • Responded to customers in a timely manner, researched hardware/software issues, and quickly followed up with customers to bring resolutions and solid action plans. Host Software Contractor Workforce Logic June 2008 to August 2010 Provided storage software solutions, modified and maintained lab systems, maintained websites, set up lab equipment, and configured test beds. Mentored two co-op students in IT support. Computer Lab Aide Blue Ridge Court - Mulvane, KS January 2007 to May 2008 1/2007 to 5/2008  Assisted college students in computer lab activities including computer log-ins and operations. Office Equipment Specialist Staples Office Super Store - Ponca City, OK July 2000 to December 2006 Supervised six employees in the sales of office equipment and supplies. Served as an on-site IT technician providing hardware/software computer support. Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science Wichita State University - Wichita, KS May 2010 Associate of Arts in Information Technology Cowley County Community College - Arkansas City, KS December 2007 Skills ? Project Management ? Repair and Maintenance ? Customer Service ? Hardware/Software Support ? Firewall Management ? Complex Problem Solving ? Help Desk/Security Support ? Diagnosis and Resolution ? VDI Systems ? Cost Analysis & Savings ? On-Site/Remote Support ? Intro to Hyper-V Certifications/Licenses Driver's License