Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Admin Clinton, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Kforce Professional Staffing & Solutions - Washington, DC July 2018 to Present ·  Performs systems administrative and operational duties on computer systems  ·  Maintain files as required by the vendor of custom design application  ·  Analyze, evaluate and test software and hardware problems   ·  Perform installation, planning and security of computer facilities  ·  Responsible for developing and maintaining systems configuration   ·  Prepare activity and progress reports regarding support activities  ·  Respond, investigate, and correct problems  ·  Acts as a technical resource for all users  ·  Contribute to finding improvements in the hardware, software or infrastructure related services  ·  Working to agreed SLA's in order to resolve customer issues in a timely manner  ·  Organize appropriate training and utilize commercial and government off-the-shelf products (COTS and GOTS)  ·  Install, troubleshoot, support and configuration of microcomputer hardware and software systems, to include servers  ·  Also performs same functions for peripheral devices such as modems, scanners, printers, and fax devices  ·  Provide troubleshooting diagnosis, and repair for microcomputer devices  ·  Install hardware and software application on a myriad of computer devices Air Transportation Specialist United States Air Force Reserve Command - Andrews AFB, MD March 2014 to November 2018 • Inspect aircraft cargo and mail to verify eligibility and proper documentation, packaging and marking;  • Determine quantity and type of cargo to be loaded according to allowable aircraft cabin load;  • Select and palletize loads and coordinate with air transportation clearance authority on diversion of cargo;  • Load and unload aircraft using materials handling and loading equipment; and • Review travel documentation for validity and accuracy and check in passengers and baggage. Mobile Systems Administrator SAIC - Washington, DC February 2018 to July 2018 ·  Monitor Remedy queue to address escalated tickets from Tier 1  ·  Document, update, and resolve escalated remedy Service request (SR) and Incidents (INC) from tier 1; Escalate unresolved SR/INC to Engineers and remain in contact until issue is resolved.  ·  Monitor, track, analyze, and respond to system alerts ( e.g. SCOM)  ·  Work in Active Directory to modify user’s accounts, both domestic and post, to ensure their accounts reflect permissions needed to complete work.  ·  Remote into BlackBerry/Global OpenNet (GO) servers to modify user’s accounts as needed, including resetting profiles, resetting Outlook/O365 profiles, removing “hung” GO sessions, clearing low disk space on servers, and hourly checks to ensure critical post servers are functional.   ·  Provide assistance for end-users with BlackBerry, iPhone, Android and computer issues pertaining to department use. Mobile Operations Technician SAIC - Washington, DC January 2016 to February 2018 • Provide remote access capabilities to the Department of State  • Answer helpdesk phones and provide Tier 1 support to users for Blackberry, iPhone, and Global OpenNet issues  • Manage and sustain the Blackberry Enterprise Server  • Respond to telephone calls, emails, and personnel request for technical support  • Log and prioritize calls and provide reports as required on Service Level Agreement  • Document, track and monitor the problem to ensure timely resolution  • Analyze, evaluate, and test software and hardware problems  • Handle heavy call volume Service Desk Analyst Kforce Inc - Washington, DC March 2015 to January 2016 • Answer helpdesk phones and provide Tier 1 support to users on a variety of issues;  • Respond to telephone calls, emails, and personnel request for technical support;  • Log and prioritize calls and provide reports as required on Service Level Agreement;  • Document, track and monitor the problem to ensure timely resolution;  • Analyze, evaluate, and test software and hardware problems; and • Handle heavy call volume. Fleet Service Agent U.S. Airways - Arlington, VA January 2015 to March 2015 Loads and unloads baggage and cargo, marshals aircraft to and from gates, and services aircrafts. Flow Team Member Target - District Heights, MD November 2014 to January 2015 Stock floor shelves neatly and accurately; and • Unload delivery trucks. Substitute Teacher Charles County, MD July 2013 to June 2014 In the absence of the regular classroom teacher help students learn subject matter and/or skills that are required for scheduled lessons and to provide meaningful instruction for assigned classrooms. Auditor Charles County, MD - Lanham, MD July 2013 to October 2013 Conduct the inventory of retail companies around the state of Maryland. Ground Radar Technician United States Air Force - Biloxi, MS August 2012 to May 2013 • Install, maintain, and repair fixed or mobile air traffic control, weather, ground air craft control and warning radar systems, related radar operator training devices, aircraft identification equipment, remoting systems, video mappers, computerized processors and communication subsystems;  • Operate and relocate related support and communication equipment; and • Direct ground radar maintenance inspection teams organized to evaluate base or command maintenance programs. Hard lines Team Member Target - La Plata, MD October 2010 to August 2012 • Update store displays and shelves as necessary.  • Check signs and labels for accuracy.  • Maintain a clean store.  • Answer customer questions and provide checkout assistance as needed; and • Restock items on store shelves and make sure merchandise labels are correct. Education Criminal Justice Frostburg State University - Frostburg, MD September 2009 to 2010 Additional Information Savvy and action-oriented professional with gainful Information Technology education and general technical support. Proficient in several software and computer tools ready for immediate obligations in network security, help desk support and operating system maintenance. Demonstrated ability to work calmly and efficiently in a fast-paced environment through refined communication, and superior leadership and organizational skills.    Technical Proficiencies  Systematic Programs: Proficient in WebCT, Wiki, and Blackboard.  Data Analysis/Graphics: Experienced with the management, analysis, and the visualization of statistical data.  Web Development: Knowledgeable in Web-based development using JavaScript and HTML. Database experience using MS Access.  Office Products: Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint).    Key Capabilities    • Quickly learn and master new technology; equally successful in both team and self-directed settings; and proficient in a range of computer systems, languages, tools and testing methodologies.  • Provide network and technical support in a broad range of services.  • Effectively train staff and management to improve basic computer and software skills.  • Proactively find and resolve malfunctions, using exceptional technical and communication skills to ensure minimization of downtime and optimal computer performance.  • Assist in developing Help Desk, including software selection and development of procedures to provide support for software, printing, and network access issues.