Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center Seattle, WA Work Experience Systems Administrator Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center - Seattle, WA 2005 to Present Provide hands-on administrative and technical support for a staff of 70. Coordinate with desktop technicians, vendors, software engineers, and other IT staff to troubleshoot, track, and resolve issues impacting our service to the public and day to day operations. Initiate systems improvements, hardware upgrades, software testing, and implementation of new or updated applications. Maintain, administer, and design SharePoint intranet site to improve collaboration, manage data, and control information sharing. Point person for office moves and renovations, with successful space planning experience maximizing daylighting, workflow efficiency, and occupancy comfort. Compile and organize reports, source materials and supplies, and develop systems and procedures to streamline operations. Community Health Worker Public Health Seattle & King County - Seattle, WA 2004 to 2005 Community Health Worker  Conducted home visits to offer asthma education and assistance to low-income families in underserved populations. Performed home environmental assessments to identify potential asthma triggers such as poor ventilation, mold, pests, leaks, and carpeting, and collected dust samples for analysis. Provided green cleaning supplies, mattress and pillow covers, and HEPA filter vacuums to reduce exposure to environmental triggers, and participated in community outreach activities and study participant recruitment throughout King County. Campus Voice® Program Administrator YouthStream Media Networks - Seattle, WA 1998 to 2002 Managed sponsored poster distribution for college wallboard media program with over 550 participating schools nationwide. Compiled performance data and coordinated client site visits. Supervised field representatives and partnered with schools for monthly poster placement, wallboard installations and repairs. Also attended college residential housing association conferences to connect with staff, generate leads, and increase participation. Education Bachelor of Applied Science degree in Applied Science South Seattle College 2019 Associate of Applied Science degree in Applied Science North Seattle College 2004 Associate of Applied Arts Degree in Commercial Photography Art Institute of Seattle 1997