Systems Administrator III <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> III Systems Administrator III Lester, PA System Administrator with exceptional attention to detail and follow through. Capable of administration in multiple environments ( Windows, Apple, Linux and VMware). Well versed in Tier 11 and 111 support. Desiring to obtain a system administrator role with a stable growth company. Work Experience Systems Administrator III QVC Inc - West Chester, PA April 2000 to March 2019 • Progressively moved through the organization via promotion.  • Technical Level 3 Support - Closed cased within 98% of SLA  • Macintosh Administration - Built, scripted and Automated over 50 packages with minimal defects  • Vertex Database updates - Maintained version and automated the push of the application details to QVC users.  • Adobe Cloud Services - Built, Maintained and automated service. Setup Active Directory Sync. Maintained user groups for access. Implemented Single Sign On  • VMware - Vsphere - Served as the administrator for Vsphere, created clones built and recomposed linked clones.  • VFusion- Setup and installed. Used for the graphic artists to use Microsoft application.  • VMware - Appvolumes - Built, scripted and published 50 plus complex applications  • SCCM - Packaged and scripted 80 plus packages. Tested and Deployed security patches using automation. Setup and maintained remote site application synchronization.. Business Analyst Elf AtoChem, ARKEMA - Philadelphia, PA October 1999 to April 2000 Placed at location as a contractor    Supported Windows 98 architecture for 5000+ clients.  • First and second level technical computer support for clients that were in the building, sales people that were on the road, and clients at remote site locations.  • Supported and used WinInstall server for Software installation for clients on premises, on the road or at remote facilities.  • Desk side second level visits to clients as needed for support or training. Deployment Contractor QVC Inc - West Chester, PA April 1999 to October 1999 Placed at location as a contractor for 6-month project, .  Upgrade company from Windows 3.1and DOS, to Windows 95 and NT.  • Upgrade hardware as needed to support new Operating System models.  • Training and support for the clients that were unfamiliar with the new upgrades.  • Create documents for other team members to follow to solve problems or train clients. Deployment Contractor Entex - Wilmington, DE October 1998 to April 1999 Served as a Consultant at Wilmington Trust Bank  • Upgrade company from Windows 3.1, to Windows NT.  • Upgrade hardware as needed to support new Operating System models.  • Training and support for the clients that were unfamiliar with the new upgrades.  • Create documents for other team members to follow to solve problems or train clients.  • Maintain mobile (local) deployment server with images, applications, and updates. Education Ridley High School - Folsom, PA June 1988 Skills VMWARE, DATABASE, TECHNICAL SUPPORT, CUSTOMER SERVICE Additional Information Skills  • Apple Administration • Windows Administration  • VMware VSphere • Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager  • Implementation of new IT resources • Technical Support  • JAMF • Adobe Cloud  • Vertex Database • Communications  • Client and vendor relations • Customer service