Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Kansas City, MO I've been in IT since 1993 professionally and have been working on computers since I was 7 years old. What I don't know I learn very quickly and I am a great asset to any company that I work for. Work Experience Systems Administrator Kansas University Medical Center Research Institute - Fairway, KS 2014 to 2018 Responsible for all aspects of user and server support, including building, deployment and maintenance of 16 servers and 85 desktops with multiple configurations. Primary contact responsible for maintaining users from provisioning accounts, phone/voicemail maintenance, daily support and troubleshooting to account termination. Testing, certification and deployment of Windows 7 and Windows 10 and software packages needed for daily job duties. Build and deployment of custom vendor webserver apps under Apache and Apache Tomcat running on Windows server 2008 - 2016. Purchasing duties include all computer systems and accessories, digital signage, software licensing and consumable supplies. Projects lead include P2V conversion of server farm, upgrading deployments of Windows 7 to Windows 10 either via physical swap or network upgrade. Design and configuration of new conference room along with audio/visual vendor, new process for identifying systems that are out of warranty and setup replacement cycle based on warranty including disposing of older equipment. Network Specialist Kansas University Medical Center - Kansas City, KS 2010 to 2014 Responsible for tier 1 customer support via telephone and customer walkups, troubleshooting and fixing operating system issues on Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7, and Mac OSX, including login issues, network connectivity, software troubleshooting, password resets, disk encryption, removing viruses and spyware, resolving issues on first call when possible, setting up of new equipment including desktops, laptops, and tablets.  Other daily duties include maintenance of the Computrace laptop anti-theft data database and sending daily e-mails to users that have non-compliant equipment. Systems Administrator Alexander Open Systems - Overland Park, KS 2006 to 2008 Responsible for maintaining Windows 2003 / Exchange 2003 domain, implementing and maintaining security policy, group policy, and exchange server.  Support of 200+ users and 65 servers in Overland Park and 5 remote sites located in different states.  Supporting of the AOS Citrix environment for remote access for employees. Implemented WSUS for patch management and deployment to all servers and workstations in the corporate network. Maintained the EMC SAN that housed all corporate data, monitored it for faults and errors and corrected any errors to protect the integrity of all corporate data. Reconfigured backup environment to optimize backup schedule and minimize backup and recovery time. Lead initiative to migrate from a physical to virtual server environment including building 8 ESX 3.5 VMWare servers to replace the 65 physical servers that were in place and converted 25 existing servers as well as migrating servers that were running in the VMWare 2.x environment into the new 3.5 VMWare environment. Enabled load balancing and disaster recovery using VMotion to maintain maximum uptime to the virtual server environment. Help Desk Technician ISPN Internet Services - Lenexa, KS 2004 to 2006 Responsible for call center duties including answering calls from 50+ different ISP's, supporting end users, diagnosing and troubleshooting internet connectivity, OS problems, and helping users setup their internet connections, e-mail programs, as well as resolving any connectivity issues the users may have. Self Employed Self Employed - Kansas City, MO 2002 to 2004 PC Repair/Network Analyst  General PC repairs and upgrades for several clients in and around the Kansas City area including office conversions from Windows 95 and 98 to Windows XP. The majority of troubleshooting work done was network and computer hardware/software issues. Setting up of websites using MySQL/PHP combination. VPN creation for secure remote desktop administration and B2B communications as well as remote access for employees. Network Security Engineer Birch Telecom - Kansas City, MO 2000 to 2002 Primary Checkpoint Firewall administrator responsible for all aspects of corporate firewalls, including upgrades, maintenance, disaster recovery, troubleshooting, and daily administration. Assisting NT, Unix, and AS/400 administrators with hardening of systems. Member of network security architecture team responsible for identifying and removing security holes and vulnerabilities on the corporate network as well as defining security policies for the corporate network and firewalls.Tested vulnerabilities and security breeches to secure resources against malicious attack/misuse. Part of Computer Incident Response Team responsible for responding to crisis situations, security breeches, and virus attacks. Evaluate new products / projects under review or development by internal teams for security compliance and risk assessment. Configuration of lab equipment for testing and assessment of new technologies and software. Network Security Engineer DST Systems - Kansas City, MO 2000 to 2000 Project lead on evaluation and initial selection of an intrusion detection system that fit the needs of DST, including control of a pilot program and phased rollout.  Developed security baselines and technical standards for Windows NT 4.0 Server and Workstation, Unix, AIX, Cisco Routers, and AS/400.  Tested vulnerabilities and security breeches to secure resources against malicious attack/misuse.  Designed a process flow and support system to handle dissemination of vulnerabilities on affected technologies from different alert services and provide tracking of current status of required patches and hot-fixes to close vulnerabilities on affected technologies.  Evaluated new products / projects under review or development by project teams for security compliance and risk assessment.  Designed and configured a lab environment for testing and assessment of new technologies and software.  Developed a process flow and implementation of a system for vulnerability assessment and network intrusion testing. Programmer - Advanced Technology Group DST Systems - Kansas City, MO 1998 to 2000 Maintained client templates for web based mutual fund transaction system.  Enhanced and maintained existing server-side Java code running under Netscape Enterprise Server using WAI to facilitate the communications between Java and the CORBA orb running within the web server.  Research and development of different security proof of concepts including VPN's and digital certificates.  Maintained and upgraded the PCs and servers in the ATG test lab.  Developed and implemented a stress testing facility as a final quality control step to the development cycle of applications and new server releases. Education High school or equivalent Skills APACHE, WEB SERVER, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lhodl-nddg8ycjyk Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wv0xw0brykbhzg4r Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rsypj7wexiwdagi8 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information COMPUTER KNOWLEDGE  • Windows Server 2003-2016  • Windows 3.11-Windows 10  • Domain Administration  • Active Directory    • Group Policy  • WSUS  • VMWare  • Novell Network Services    • Exchange 2003  • EMC Networker Backup  • Apache Web Server  • Microsoft SQL Server