Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II - Visionary Integration Professionals Elizabeth City, NC Certified Security Analyst, looking to continue my professional career ensuring safety measures are in place to protect sensitive information and proprietary data. While Troubleshooting, Log Analysis and Validation of Data Integrity are few my strengths; it has always been my desire to expand my knowledge and learn a new trade. I was taught from a very young age, "The Sky is the Limit" which is a moto I live by day to day. Work Experience Systems Administrator II Visionary Integration Professionals - Elizabeth City, NC February 2015 to Present Participated in Coast Guard wide vulnerability initiative. We remediated over 10,000 vulnerabilities to meet department of defense compliance standards.  ? Used Nessus Scanning tool to identify vulnerability and researched remediation methods.  ? Day to day performance monitoring and error detecting of server systems. This includes I/O, disk performance LVM management, CPU monitoring and log monitoring  ? Create and maintain Unix/Linux user accounts. This includes PKI enforcement. Verifying that user account settings were in compliance with DoD STIG regulations.  ? Integrated Application Single Sign on (SSO) on Linux Servers  ? Initial stand up of UNIX/Linux database server; installing and configuring Oracle 11g and 12c and Ingres 10.2 client.  ? Setup Production to Disaster Recovery replication for easy switch over.  ? Initial standup and administration of Linux SAS 9.3 server.  ? Installed and configured SAS 9.3 software on the development, QA, Stage and Production environments. Monitored the I/O, CPU usage and functionality of the client to ensure optimal performance.  ? Took Lead on the Upgrade of SAS 9.3 to 9.4 software on development QA, Stage and Productions Environment  ? Monitor the production SAS jobs and assessed and remediated any database and server issues.  ? Took lead on the upgrade, migration of our backup system. Assessed the current environment and provided suggestions on how to prove the backup system and processes. Document all changes in our standard operating procedures.  ? Managed the automated backup schedule using the backup software. Researched and fixed any software/hardware related issue and documented any abnormalities in the system.  ? Ensured availability of the Coast Guard servers and resolve any system performance alerts.  ? Worked with vendor as needed to resolve any hardware issues per SLA.  ? Used Active Directory to administer users and groups per coast guard application.  ? Configured, maintained and monitored storage area network (SAN). Conducted an analysis on the old system to ensure optimal performance of the new system.  ? Worked with information security team to identify, resolve and mitigate SAN related vulnerabilities.  ? Responsible for the upgrading and up keep of tapes and tape backup hardware and software.  ? Improved and documented new processes and procedures referencing Backups, SAS Administration and Storage Administrations.  ? Worked with virtual machines to provide redundancy and high availability for server and applications  ? Assist our Decision Support Team with any server related questions or issues regarding SAS and Cognos Powerplay system. Tier 1 Help Desk Specialist Synergetic Information Systems, Inc - Elizabeth City, NC December 2013 to January 2015 Support Coast Guard aviation and surface crew and maintenance personnel using custom applications which support Coast Guard operational missions, logistics, and technical publications.  ? Document aviation and surface personnel with hardware and software issues using Cognos 10 Remedy software and a customer relations management system  ? Evaluate each issue and if solution is out of the scope of my assigned limitation, assign the ticket to the appropriate team for resolution.  ? Monitor the Data Center and notify the engineering personnel when system performance or data center environment metric exceeds critical limits.  ? Evaluate the operability of coast guard applications. If application is down, send out a notification to all users and notify the appropriate personnel.  ? Use the Asset Maintenance Management Information System and active directory database to query user account to obtain information  ? Unlock or reactive account for AMMIS/ACMS users using Mayberry Active Directory  ? Maintained user request (with my Team) using Microsoft Outlook Shared folder and Shared Network drives Office Assistant Elizabeth City State University - Elizabeth City, NC May 2012 to September 2013 Reconciled Cash Receipts using WebFOCUS and Banner Advancement  ? Collaborated with ECSU's IT Department to create organized reports using Banner Advancement and Finance for the use of the department.  ? Developed and maintain an electronic database of all statements, receipts, agreements, and paperwork.  ? Worked with Ellucian to solve troubleshooting and feed issues concerning Banner Advancement.  ? Reviewed daily deposit reports to ensure deposit was logged accurately  ? Assisted with the preparations and presentation of board materials for The Elizabeth City State University Foundation Board Meetings.  ? Examined Scholarship fund agreements and Endowment agreements to ensure compliance with established Advancement Services criteria.  ? Created annual reports for Development (Fundraising) Office summarizing donor and alumni giving.  ? Oversaw the daily responsibilities of the work-study students.  ? Worked with the Executive Assistant to the Vice Chancellor of Institutional Advancement to complete the Foundation's daily cash deposit.  ? Assisted the Accounting Technician with the preparation of the bank reconciliation via Banner Advancement and Finance for the 2012-2013 Audit.  ? Evaluated customer satisfaction using electronic, telephone and paper surveys Education Master of Science in Information Technology North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University - Greensboro, NC December 2014 Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Elizabeth City State University - Elizabeth City, NC May 2012 Skills System Administrator (5 years), Linux (6 years), SAS (3 years), Troubleshooting (5 years), System Admin, Red Hat Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Cyber Security Analyst (CySA+) May 2018 to May 2021 SAS Certified Platform Administrator for SAS 9 June 2019 to Present