Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator III - Cerasis, Inc Tulsa, OK Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator II Cerasis, Inc - Tulsa, OK April 2008 to Present Provide a high level of customer service for end users and customers alike  Maintain servers under my responsibility (patches, software updates, etc.)  Application and desktop support for all users  Network access for new users  On-call rotation  Manage and maintain EDI software (Liaison ECS)  Responsible for data moves within databases (Access and SQL)  Manage phone systems (5 switches, 70+users)  Assist in management of Sharepoint site for all departments  Assist in management of Firewalls (Smoothwalls)  Manage FTP server and users  Setup new pc's and laptop for use in office and remotely  Manage 3rd party fax software (Ring Central)  Manage 3rd party email software (MimeCast)  Assist in employee departure  Manage and maintain local and networked printers Systems Support Blue Cross Blue Shield - Tulsa, OK 2007 to 2008 Solving IT  ? Create, prepare and distribute daily reports and schedule for the office.  ? Oversee Management Information System (MIS) e-mail through application of people, technologies and procedures. Manage backups for the servers.  ? Responsible for resetting computer accounts and resetting computer passwords. Teller to Loan Officer Tulsa Teachers Credit Union - Tulsa, OK 1998 to 2006 Responsible for making loan decisions for consumer and real estate loans.  ? Improved loan portfolio while creating good relationships with the members.  ? Reviewed credit reports.  ? Executed the responsibilities of tellers, CSR's and managers as necessary.  ? Excelled in cross selling products through a global understanding of the institutions internal and external workings.  ? Title Assistant  ? Acted as the IT specialist for the office.  ? Ensured information was current for out of state title requirements.  ? Maintained and evaluated statistics for title department.  ? Designed and implemented several record keeping logs that led to greater department organization and are still currently being used.  ? Loan Processor  ? Prepared and finalized loan documents and supported loan officers with loan closings.  ? Quoted NADA values, interest rates and payments.  ? Promoted and facilitated member services within the Tulsa Teachers Credit Union.  ? Collaborated with several different departments and gained a working knowledge of credit unions.  ? Teller, Drive Thru  ? Processed deposits, payments and withdrawals.  ? Consistently met balancing requirements for cash drawer and dispenser. Education BS in Information Technology University of Phoenix 2007 Skills Office Suite (8 years)