Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Salesforce Administrator Mesa, AZ Result-driven Salesforce Administrator with extensive experience in internal and external support, training and mentorship, organizational leadership, and environment/release management. Work Experience Systems Administrator Elevation Solar - Gilbert, AZ 2018 to 2018 Developed Salesforce-based solutions and provided additional support. Integrated internal and external tools. Maintained end-user guides, release notes, and all support documentation. Developed resolutions for Salesforce bugs, enhancements, and features as sole Administrator/Developer for nearly a year.  Key Accomplishments:  • Developed, tested, and deployed a custom Salesforce Partner Community Portal for ~20 company partners to submit and track leads, sales proposal and support requests.  • Created and implemented multiple Case types and processes for internal and external support management.  • Engineered and administrated Case Prioritization voting process with internal stakeholders to develop a single numerically scored backlog of work Administrator / Release Engineer G/O DIGITAL MARKETING 2014 to 2017 Managed the transition process from SVN to Git software repository methodologies. Developed revised deployment method by leveraging cloud-based Bitbucket Pipelines for Salesforce deployments. Designed, integrated, and administered JIRA and Confluence software for issue management, tracking, and documentation.  Key Accomplishments:  • Completed hundreds of engineering and customer support requests  • Facilitated dozens of production software deployments, and hundreds of test environment Salesforce deployments.  • Created and distributed multiple automated Batch scripts to perform Salesforce software deployments through Force.com Migration Tool/ANT from an SVN repository  • Developed and utilized Batch scripts to download and archive Salesforce XML metadata on a weekly basis for audit and compliance purposes.  • Migrated all departmental technical and sprint/backlog documentation and from Rally to JIRA  • Purchased and addminististered all department utilized Atlassian products Jr. Product Owner G/O DIGITAL MARKETING 2015 to 2016 Guided implementation of a change request scoring and prioritization system to better manage development and release expectations with business leads. Oversaw centralization initiative for the tracking and management of SDLC information and status in Confluence for communication and transparency purposes.  Key Accomplishments:  • Assisted in directing and delivering an end-to-end overhaul of sales and fulfillment processes.  • Managed 6 department/engineering relationships with their accocated department leaders  • Facilitated the Salesforce feature backlog voting, priotization, and scheduling process. Project Coordinator UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX 2013 to 2014 Delivered and managed Level II Salesforce.com support administration to University personnel.  Key Accomplishments:  • Completed hundreds of support requests across several applications and databases  • Served as a member of the JIRA Administration Steering Committee  • Trained 5 new Salesforce Administrators with no previous experience.  • Led and assisted with dozens of training sessions with new internal users on Salesforce and Salesforce Service Cloud.Exceptional communicator focused on developing relationships with clients, colleagues, and stakeholders. Change and Release Manager G/O DIGITAL MARKETING 2012 to 2013 Managed contracted on-site release time as well as the offshore support team. Directed three Salesforce Development teams with respect to deployments, hotfixes, and scheduling activities. Collaborated with Salesforce.com Customer Partner to manage outages, downtimes, and escalated issues.  Key Accomplishments:  • Automated manual deployment process to achieve a significant process time reduction and completed hundreds of test environment software deployments.  • Key contributor guiding preparation of forced Salesforce migration from NA1 instance to NA35.  • Served as Product Owner and Administrator of JIRA and Confluence Education Master of Science in Psychology in Psychology UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX - Phoenix, AZ 2010 Master of Business Administration in Business Administration UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX - Phoenix, AZ 2008 Bachelor's in Air Transportation Management ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY - Tempe, AZ 2005 Associates of General Studies in General Studies CHANDLER-GILBERT COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Chandler, AZ 2002 Skills Salesforce, SFDC, Soql Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/derricktaylordavid Certifications/Licenses Salesforce Certified Administrator December 2017 https://trailhead.salesforce.com/credentials/certification-detail-print?searchString=mSHYTUttY21YBQfVQxX2uIN1Z3QhXGs9jhD+hJCHp2xOMIMTAA5WgudalbNk57pN