Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> ITOC Systems Administrator Coconut Creek, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Spirit Airlines - Miramar, FL February 2019 to Present Daily duties include monitoring and verifying the integrity and availability of all systems, sites, applications, and virtual environments. Reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs. Managing user accounts in Active Directory handling creation, deletion, permissions, roles and VPN Access. Administration and monitoring of corporate and managed services cloud-based systems. Produce, maintain and update knowledge base, configuration documentation, as well as system and operations documentation.  NOC Analyst/ Data Center Technician LexisNexis - Boca Raton, FL September 2017 to August 2018 Contractor position, responsible for overall monitoring and reporting of issues with systems and network infrastructures of the Headquarters and hosting environments globally; executing & coordinating on-call escalations, performing failovers of affected applications or sites. Daily duties included operational network & system infrastructure checks and balances for Production environments, server hardware maintenance, troubleshoot network issues, perform remote & smart hands tasks. Initiated incident management & response with structured escalation levels for Production issues escalating/ engaging management for any issue not progressing or in which SOP escalation has not been successful. Limited HelpDesk after hours troubleshooting . Shadow daily bridge calls with managers, directors and support teams with the goal of taking on a leadership role on bridges.  Technical Support Supervisor/ NOC Engineer Broadstar Communications - West Palm Beach, FL November 2016 to July 2017 Weekly meeting to address all escalated technical issues from Customer Service Manager, Property Managers, Field Tech Supervisor & Network Operations Engineers. Use software to remotely monitor and troubleshoot multiple networks across the nation and dispatch accordingly. On-site implementation of Network Engineers design from plant to distribution. Create training material to better assist customer service and field techs with technical troubleshooting or introduction of new hardware/software. Virtual School HelpDesk Global Response - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2015 to 2016 Take inbound calls from students, parents or authorized tutors to assist with any and all technical problems on school provided equipment and personal devices. Troubleshoot, install and configure 3rd party software required by school curriculum. Most troubleshooting was done via remote access, phone, email or videochat. Mobile Technician USA COMPUTERS - Fort Lauderdale, FL February 2013 to October 2014 Delivery and on-site installation, configuration, testing, maintenance, monitoring and troubleshooting of servers, workstations, and end user networked peripheral devices Escalations Satellite Technical Support The Answer Group/ Teleperformance - North Lauderdale, FL 2011 to 2012 Receive inbound phone calls to resolve satellite connectivity and latency issues.  Promoted to Tier 4 Escalations department to identify, research and resolve my assigned  Tier 3 escalated tickets. Document all troubleshooting steps and customer interactions. Tier 1 Broadband Technical Support The Answer Group 2008 to 2010 Troubleshoot inbound Tier 1 phone calls and provide excellent customer service  experience. Promoted to Agent HelpDesk guiding Tier 1 agents in assisting customers. Education A+, NET+, MSCA, MCSE, CCNA in Networking Technician The Academy - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2016 to 2016 High School Diploma Coconut Creek High School - Coconut Creek, FL 2003 to 2005 Skills Network, Hardware, and Software troubleshooting (9 years), installation and maintenance of RG-11, RG-59, RG-6, CAT5 lines, cameras and AV cables. (5 years), Advanced configuration capabilities of Operating Systems, firewalls and web browsers. (9 years), Principle understanding of both wired, wireless, and managed wireless networks. (9 years), Active Directory (4 years), Servers (4 years), Routers (10+ years), Wireless (10+ years), Network Administration (4 years), Troubleshooting (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/juanmarcos-quinones-86510511b Additional Information SOFTWARE  BBX  HyperV  Microsoft Office  Momentum  NetTracer  PUTTY  SolarWinds  ServiceNow  Splunk  WhatsUp Gold    Advanced troubleshooting knowledge of multiple OS for both Windows and Mac  Advanced knowledge of Windows Active Directory    LANGUAGES  English  Spanish