Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Dallas, TX Driven Technology Specialist with an active security clearance and experience in systems administration, maintenance and end-user training. Skilled in constructing solutions to achieve program compatibility and conduct system upgrades and installations. Knowledgeable in managing complicated Windows operating systems, servers and specialized monitoring software. Seeking to leverage broad IT experience to take the next career step with a respected organization that values critical thinking and development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology Formerly CSRA - Bossier City, LA November 2017 to February 2019 Monitored Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Servers using tools such as SolarWinds, and Systems Center Operations Manager (SCOM).  Installed, configured, tuned, maintained and monitored Windows 2003/2008/2012 Enterprise server.  Troubleshooted windows server event log issues.  Conducted basic health checks and escalated troubleshooting issues to various teams regarding the monitoring systems via Remedy ticket.  Provided Tier 2 monitoring and troubleshooting for Systems Center Operations Manager alerts by restarting services or rebooting the unhealthy servers via RDP.  Implemented core business processes and assisted in process improvement initiatives in order to enhance  customer service.  Monitored network performance and provided network performance statistical reports for both real-time and historical measurements.  Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders. Help Desk Analyst General Dynamics Information Technology Formerly CSRA - Bossier City, LA July 2015 to November 2017 Answered help desk telephones for assigned account(s) and responded to moderately complex customer  inquiries to ensure customer needs were met.  Assisted customers in resolving complex technical problems on a primary account by providing guidance regarding software and hardware problems.  Resolved and/or referred highly complex technical problems as appropriate.  Followed up with customers to ensure that customer inquiries were resolved within the contracted or agreed upon time frame.  Logged and tracked inquiries using a problem management database and maintained history records and related problem documentation.  Identified, evaluated, and prioritized customer problems and complaints to ensure that inquiries were  successfully resolved.  Analyzed and evaluated inquiry/problem reports and suggested recommendations to reduce help desk call  rates.  Provided leadership and work guidance to less experienced personnel Mainframe and Network Operator Louisiana Tech University - Ruston, LA March 2015 to July 2015 Closely monitored and quickly responded to complex console messages and software applications and operations questions.  Modified job control language.  Assisted staff members and student workers in resolving problems or answering questions about equipment operations and procedures.  Successfully prepared equipment, data and instructions for processing operations according to job set-up statements, while maintaining production schedule and logs of work run to include pulling and/or scratching or adding magnetic media to the system.  Consistently prepared documentation for systems, production or communications network problems; identified abends and equipment malfunctions.  Quickly and decisively responded to and logged problems related to job processing and communications network system.  Resolved minor malfunctions and refers major problems to appropriate personnel.  Successfully performed complex start/restart procedures on the mainframe, client/server and various software support features without fail.  Assisted with support services such as the tape library and process control when dictated by the assigned shift, workload or personnel shortages.  Monitored enterprise system and various software support applications. Sales Associate Walmart - Jonesboro, LA June 2010 to November 2014 Achieved sales goals and service targets by leveraging interpersonal communication skills and product  knowledge to cultivate and secure new customer relationships.  Provided sales of Verizon Wireless and AT&T cell phones to satisfy the customer's way of communication  Organized racks and shelves to maintain store visual appeal, engage customers and promote specific  merchandise.  Maintained records related to sales, returns and inventory availability.  Trained and served as a peer coach for new sales associates.  Remained calm and poised during high-stress situations and when engaging with difficult or irate  individuals. Education Master's in Business Administration Louisiana State University-Shreveport - Shreveport, LA October 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Computer Science Grambling State University - Grambling, LA August 2010 to December 2014