Systems Administrator I <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I Worcester, MA To combine my background in sales with my passion for technology in a role that will allow me to grow both myself and the business. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator I Hologic - Marlborough, MA December 2017 to Present • Provide 2nd and 3rd line technical support to the internal business via phone, walk-ups, email and the ticket management platform My ServiceNow.  • Ticket management and ownership with root cause analysis when appropriate  • C-level lead support technician. Experience with "White Glove Support" for high level employees.  • Manage and maintain IS assets, network, contacts and service contracts inventory  • Triage and troubleshoot moderate to complex end user problems. This would include the usage of remote diagnostic tools to support off-site users.  • Created online documentation to help employees resolve day to day issues  • Provide 1st/2nd line support for Enterprise applications including Oracle, Agile, Siebel, Salesforce and QlikView escalating incidents and liaising with third party support where appropriate.  • Experienced with On prem to O365 Microsoft mailbox migration  • Maintained mailboxes via Powershell/Exchange Admin. Handled creations, Managed permissions, etc.  • Creation of Powershell scripts to help with day to day management of Active Directory and Exchange inboxes.  • Provide training for Enterprise applications and perform IS inductions for new starters. Management of our leavers’ process when required.  • Configure and deploy PC/laptop Hardware. Software deployment via SCCM  • Active Directory Admin  • Manage corporate mobile devices (Ipad/Iphone) via MobileIron MDM.  • Manage and Maintain Salesforce Accounts.  • Carbonite Backup Administrator  • Box Administrator  • Office365 Admin  • Microsoft Exchange Admin  • Internal Webex Administrator (Creating and Maintaining)  • Cisco Unity Administrator (creation of new accounts, setting up phone system)  • Lead Tech for our Corp. headquarters on Cisco video conference systems.  • Maintenance of files and records for auditing purposes and the ability to create clear, understandable technical documentation for the benefit of internal personnel.  • Ensure security of devices remains at the forefront of company objectives through the understanding and usage of the enterprise applications. (Splunk, Carbonite backup) Relationship Manager Bank Of America - Shrewsbury, MA November 2016 to November 2017 • Work directly with consumer and small business clients to understand unique financial needs and recommend the best products, solutions, and services to meet those needs.   • Collaborate directly with Investment Advisers and Mortgage loan officers to best assist clients when those opportunities arise. Solution Specialist/Small to Medium Business Core Team Leader Verizon Wireless November 2015 to November 2016 • Responsible for positioning a wide range of solutions and services to new and existing customers.  • Responsible for maintaining current and dynamic sales metrics.  • Responsible for generating and executing on small business leads  • Responsible for adhering to all sales processes and procedures as established by region and by Corporate.  • Responsible for executing promotions and meeting or exceeding established sales goals as established within District.  • Responsible for handling any and all customer service issues. Location Manager/B2B Specialist Sprint Arch Telecom - Saugus, MA April 2015 to November 2015 • Support and train 6 sales associates  • Handles all day to day operations of the store  • Certified Lead Technician in service and repair of device Hardware and Software  • Drives team to hit all sales metrics put forth by Sales Director  • Responsible for the stores appearance adhering to planogram created by Sprint Corporate Assistant Manager/ Store Manager Go Wireless/Verizon Wireless Retailer December 2011 to April 2015 Brockton, Quincy, Marlborough MA  • Responsible for selling products and services to new and existing customers.  • Responsible for maintaining current and always changing sales metrics.  • Regional hands on network and tech support for GoWireless Locations  • Responsible for generating and executing on small business leads  • Responsible for adhering to all sales processes and procedures as established by region and by Corporate.  • Responsible for executing promotions and meeting or exceeding established sales goals as established within District.  • Responsible for handling customer service issues. Customer Sales Associate/ Team Leader Lowe's - Brockton, MA January 2011 to November 2011 • Contributed to overall corporate success through the efficient ordering, merchandising, selling and maintenance of products and associated items.    ? Fully Licensed Power Equipment Operator Customer Sales Associate Home Depot - Rockland, MA July 2008 to January 2011 • Ensured customers received the best possible service through suggestive selling and product knowledge.  • Fully Licensed Power Equipment Operator Maintenance Worker Work Inc - Dorchester, MA June 2007 to September 2010 • Clean and Maintain Public and Private Facilities  • Occasional Job as Supervisor Education Bachelors in Information Technology Southern New Hampshire University - New Hampshire 2015 to Present High School Diploma Whitman-Hanson High School - Whitman, MA 2004 to 2008 Skills System Administrator I (2 years), Active Directory Administrator (2 years), Salesforce Administrator (2 years)