Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - JIRA Martinsburg, WV Work Experience Systems Administrator JIRA June 2019 to Present Earth Resources Technologies, Inc.  Performs as system administrator for JIRA Service Desk, Software, and Confluence servers in support of NOAA's office.    Also provides continuous process improvements, ITIL/CMMI process documentation, and Google Site support. IT Configuration Management Specialist Synergy BIS/Coast Guard Operations Systems Center March 2019 to June 2019 Performed as a Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS) Configuration Management Specialist in support of the Coast Guard's TFS integrated system that supports 30+ projects.    Created and managed TFS system area paths for project use. Also created and managed TFS user account permissions.    Created the team's Configuration Management plan. Change Manager National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration - Silver Spring, MD March 2011 to March 2019 Experienced IT Change Manager with over eleven years of experience.    I created and provided full-service IT Change processes for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA), National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) headquarters, Office of the Chief Information Officer.    Because of my change management performance and continuous improvement expertise, as of November 2018, I was promoted to also lead our reorganized Application Quality Assurance/Test team.    I coordinated high volumes of change requests to completion for the Technical Impact Analysis team, Change Control Board, and Enterprise Change Control Board.    I created the headquarters' first System Change Request (SCR) Forward Schedule of Change, their first SCR Service Outage Calendar, and their first automated Google Apps script change request form.    The automated change form replaced our antiquated and static MSWord SCR. This improvement provides not only basic features where SCR Submitter entries are automatically entered into a Google spreadsheet but also provides customized Google Apps Script/Javascript enhanced features such as;    * Conditional email notifications  * Dynamically created PDF SCRs  * Option to use digitally signed Common Access Card (CAC) signatures  * Outage notifications for the Helpdesk team  * Automated the IT Outage Maintenance Schedule for the Infrastructure manager    Another example of my initiative, I manually converted over 1500 approved MS Word SCRs from 2008 to 2014 into scanned PDF copies for digital archiving and audit support. The 2014 purchase of multi-purpose network printers vastly improved our document scanning efficiency. Because of this initiative, our documents easily comply with the new National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) 2019 digital records archive requirement.    I also performed as the JIRA Issue Tracking system administrator for all Fisheries' application teams. I quickly learned, activated, and supported the JIRA Cloud server.    I was the catalyst and coordinator in saving NMFS Fisheries about $10,000 by notifying senior management that our Office of Science and Technology (S&T) team had an in-house JIRA server. This resulted in sharing JIRA license and server resources at no additional cost to our office. As a result, I performed as the Fisheries' JIRA migration manager and served as a voting member on the S&T JIRA Change Control Board and Wiki Change Control Board.    I also was the Subversion Version Control manager. I provided monthly audits of our version control system, controlled user access, provided assistance to resolve issues, and helped team members who were not familiar with version control. Change/Configuration Manager Cascades Technologies Inc - Washington, DC December 2006 to January 2011 As the Division's Change/Configuration Manager, I ensured that changes were authorized and managed for 30 Production, 16 Intranet, 25 Administration, and 4 Social applications; as well as, 40 Development desktops, 10 Virtual Servers, and 6 Database Servers.    I established a high Request for Change (RFC) acceptance percentage from the Department of Labor's Enterprise Production Change Review Board.    Chaired the division's Change Advisory Board consisting of 5 federal managers. Created and maintained 4 years of archived change requests consisting of all related change emails and supporting documents.    Created and maintained dynamic MS Visio data graphics that showed relationships, states, URLs, supporting servers and databases of the division's 75 application and 56 server configuration items.    Created and maintained the division's Configuration Management Database and cross-referenced Change information for the division's 75 application and 56 server configuration items.    Created weekly and monthly metrics and baseline reports for federal managers, divisional managers, and requesting team members. Configuration Manager ITIL Change December 2006 to January 2011 Senior Coldfusion Applications Developer Cascades Technologies Inc June 2004 to December 2006 Department of Labor (Cascades Technologies Inc.)    Evaluated old, nonfunctioning Perl code and successfully created a new, auto-updating, Coldfusion application that returned federal reports from the Department of Labor's 21 agencies.    Volunteered and managed the division's Concurrent Versioning System (CVS) for all division applications. Established and ensured that programming staff complied with versioning standards.    Established and provided training covering how CVS works and how to use the WinCVS, TortoiseCVS, and ViewCVS graphical user interface applications.    Maintained the division's Change Request records. Coldfusion Systems Developer Caliber Associates - Fairfax, VA May 2000 to June 2004 Developed a reputation as a highly effective and flexible team player. Worked comfortably in dynamic, fast-paced production environments and provided task completion estimates to assist project coordinator decisions.    Programmed dynamic Coldfusion websites, registrations, and surveys for U.S. Department of Justice, United States Air Force, Pentagon, Environmental Protection Agency, and Department of Education.    Created effective website user interfaces that met Section 508 requirements for all produced Coldfusion applications.    Performed as a risk manager, database designer, database administrator, and technical support for all produced Coldfusion applications. Perl/Coldfusion Programmer Advanced Technology Systems, Inc - McLean, VA September 1995 to April 2000 Developed numerous products, web pages, and applications for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).    Performed as a highly productive team member who provided HTML, Javascript, Perl, Dynamic HTML, and Coldfusion support for projects like HUD's primary website, HUD's associated CodeTalk website, and 96 public internet kiosks.    Provided HUD Service Desk solution support for Internet and Desktop related problems. Target Materials Workstation Trainer Geodynamics Corporation - Fairfax, VA September 1993 to November 1995 Edited, updated, and developed training material for use in teaching military customers how to use the company's Target Material Workstation (TMWS).    Became proficient not only as a member of the training team but also developed expertise in setting up all Sparc 10/20 workstations and peripherals. Additionally, I became an expert in customizing TMWS products to meet specialized customer requirements.    Assisted our network engineers in debugging technical issues and fixing hardware problems. Target Materials Technician United States Air Force 1973 to 1993 Performed classified Multi-Spectral/Photographic Imagery Interpretation, Targeting, and Target Materials support duties at worldwide locations with numerous units and military services.  • Headquarters Strategic Air Command's Target Materials Project Manager (4 years)  • 7th Special Operations Squadron Intelligence Branch Manager (2.5 years)  • 544 Strategic Intelligence Wing Target Materials Supervisor (4 years)  • 544 Strategic Intelligence Wing Target Materials Technician (4 years)  • 354 Tactical Fighter Wing Multispectral Imagery Interpreter & Target Materials Specialist (3 years)  • 497 Reconnaissance Technical Group Multispectral Imagery Interpreter (3 years) Education Bachelors in Geography in Geography University of Nebraska at Omaha - Omaha, NE January 1992 Associate in Applied Science in Intelligence and Imagery Analysis in Intelligence and Imagery Analysis Community College of the Air Force - Offutt AFB, NE January 1991 Skills Google apps script, Html, Javascript, Perl, Cmmi, Version control, Jira, Itil, Coldfusion, Sql, Linux, Microsoft office Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/donneizer Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E7 Additional Information Skills  • ITIL Foundation 2 & 3 Certified • Microsoft Office  • CMMI for Development Certified • Google Docs for Government  • Linux • Google Sheets  • Javascript • Google Apps Script  • Coldfusion • Google Forms  • Perl • Atlassian JIRA & Confluence  • Regular Expressions • Version Control  • Structured Query Language (SQL) • HTML