Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - RCM Industries Palatine, IL Pre sales Engineer or MS Account Manager Work Experience Systems Administrator RCM Industries - Franklin Park, IL June 2018 to Present • Support SD-WAN with 4 plant locations and 300+ end users.    • Day to day end user support and concurrent projects.  • Windows Hyper V environment running 50 virtual machines.  • Cisco Small Business switching at all plants.    • Support manufacturing specific programs and systems. Senior Consultant PCS International - Inverness, IL June 2016 to June 2018 • Onsite support doing general Sysadmin duties and client facing.  • Pre-Sales efforts including site survey of potential clients.  • Enter potential business Opps in ConnectWise  • Product and services recommendations to clients.  • Work with sales to spec product and generate SOW.  • Tactical/Operational calls with clients on regular basis.  • Yearly visioning meetings with clients to cover the future of tech.  • Proficient with high-density Wifi systems for education.  • Admin of ConnectWise and Quosal ticketing and quoting systems. Managing Consultant Project Leadership Associates - Chicago, IL July 2009 to May 2016 • Make communication and client satisfaction a top priority.    • Lead design and planning sessions with clients.    • Create and update client documentation.    • Write Scopes of Work for hardware refresh projects.    • Regular client management meetings to go over budgets and 2 to 3-year tech plans.    • Advise clients on hardware refreshes and upgrades.    • Led multiple Office 365 cloud migration projects.    • Experience with Office 365 Administration Portal for multiple clients.    • Beginning knowledge of running Azure at client sites.    • Network Administrator for Managed Services and Small Business Services division.    • Administrator of N-Central network monitoring software solution supporting 40+ small to medium size clients. Also installed for new startup clients.    • Remote Network Administrator for multiple large clients. Duties include weekly reports for clients in: disk usage, Exchange store size, SQL DB size, BlackBerry CAL counts, EVault and Backup Exec jobs, AD maintenance/cleanup, and AV solutions.    • Receive and troubleshoot escalated tickets from Help Desk when issue is still not resolved.    • Manage and approve WSUS updates for production into client environments.    • Experience in installing and maintaining Windows Server 2008/2012 also strong in Hyper-V.    • Support/maintain Exchange 2008/2010/2012 and Office 2007/2010/2013.  • Basic knowledge of VMWare and Vsphere systems    • Intermediate knowledge of Cisco, Dell, and Sonicwall switches and firewalls. IT Specialist III Veolia Transportation - Oak Brook, IL April 2007 to July 2009 • Support 2000+ end users in 80 sites nationwide across 3 different domains.  • Solve user issues over the phone while remotely connected to user's pc.  • Troubleshoot Microsoft Terminal Server/Services and Exchange Server 2000/2003.  • Proficient in Windows XP, Office 2003/2007, Citrix Program Neighborhood, CA Unicenter, CA Admin Desktop Mgmt., Cisco VPN, Microsoft Active Directory, Bsafe Enterprise Security, Windows Remote Desktop Connection, Mochasoft Emulator, DameWare Remote Viewer, and many others.  • CA Unicenter Remote Control to remote into user pcs to solve issues.  • CA Unicenter Software Delivery to deploy software across the domain.  • CA Unicenter Service Desk to record and keep track of request tickets.  • A/S 400 user account administration with Bsafe Enterprise Security.  • Image pcs with Acronis True Image and Snap Deploy.  • Active Directory to create/maintain user accounts and reset passwords.  • Understanding of AD Group Policies, their effects and ramifications.  • Setup Outlook, Corporate Intranet, and Web mail remotely.  • DameWare Remote Viewer to deploy and install software remotely.  • Build and configured Windows 2003 Server to deploy OS images with Snap Deploy.  • Build/setup File/Print server with Server 2003 R2.  • Avaya ASA Office Phone switch/voicemail administration.  • Symantec Backup Exec 11 for daily/weekly corporate server backup tapes. Help Desk Technician Terlato Wines International - Bannockburn, IL January 2007 to April 2007 • Answer, assist, and solve problems both in-house, and with field users.  • Install/operating experience with Citrix (Thin & Fat Client), Gelco, UltraVNC, Cisco VPN, ProDiver, NetMeeting, JDEdwards XE environment (Thin/Fat Client installs), plus numerous others.  • Operate IBM AS/400 in PDM language and initialize/display daily backup tapes.  • Setup Outlook 2003 to run from company Exchange Server.  • Daily maintenance of Terminal/Application servers in JDE environment.  • Implementation/security of wireless and regular networks for corporate intranet.  • Standard-build of notebooks & desktops with required company software - both from scratch and Norton Ghost.  • Documentation for IT dept on how to install various software. Night Supervisor/Cashier III Northeastern Illinois University - Chicago, IL March 2001 to April 2007 • Receive tuition and misc. payments and balance drawer on daily basis.  • Investigate and solve discrepancies in student accounts.  • Night Supervisor of dept. with 3 student aids.  • Assist Accounts Receivable and Student Loan Dept's when needed. Education B.A. in Music Performance Northeastern Illinois University - Chicago, IL 1996 to 2000