Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Bradenton, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Computer Assist - Sarasota, FL June 2018 to Present • Provide remote and onsite systems support to various customers in the Bradenton and Sarasota area.   • Manager network environment including routers, switches, and troubleshoot any issues that arise.   • Maintain documentation and tracking of user issues   • Manage customer relations and promptly handle any customer service related issues.   • Manage desktop environment and troubleshoot and fix any hardware and/or software related issues.   • Fix and maintain security access systems for clients who have card reader and gate system within their infrastructure. Client Service Engineer Anexio, Inc - Sarasota, FL December 2015 to June 2018 • Work directly with customers to solve any and all Information Technology issues with client base of 1000 workstations and 200 servers.  • Installs, configures, troubleshoots, and resolves problems on a wide variety of commercial and proprietary software such as Peachtree, Quickbooks, Microsoft Office Suite, etc via telephone, remote control and on-site support.  • Troubleshoot and solve problems with network connectivity involving local and wide area networks.  • Monitor and create client tickets used to document problems, issues, and change management requests to include troubleshooting and resolving requests within required time limits.  • Provides detailed documentation of man-hours expended to resolve client problems and time required to complete assigned project requirements.  • Identify, research, and resolve client IT system data integrity issues/anomalies and report unresolved problems promptly to management.  • Effectively communicates to clients, peers, and management any system issues that affect the quality or reliability of corporate or client supported systems  • Maintain and troubleshoot server platforms including but not limited to Active Directory issues, DNS, RRAS, Group Policy, Exchange, user shares/permissions, etc. Network Administrator Benderson Development Company 2013 to 2015 • Ensure proper operation of all network equipment. Monitor system, maintain efficiency, perform maintenance, perform system updates as required. Supervise day-to-day operational functions of the local area network.  • Manage, configure, and maintain the MS Exchange, Ms active directory, MS SQL server, enterprise vault (for email archive) and associated communication equipment. Manage and maintain the VPNs, switches and routers.  • Manage and maintain the Florida FTP site. Provide support to vendors accessing our site.  • Provide technical support for the internal VOIP phone system.  • Provide level 2 technical support for users regarding hardware and software problems. This includes company offices/hotels and affiliated remote sites.  • Implement and test new hardware and software solutions. Provide expertise and support in the purchasing of new hardware and software.  • Manage and maintain the Verizon cell phones and call features on a company wide basis. Manage and maintain all mobile devices. Negotiate all related contracts.  • Interact with users to maintain a log of all service requests and the resolutions.  • Maintain and manage building access for all users as well as monitor and manage security system. Client Services Engineer II Anexio, Inc 2010 to 2013 • Work directly with customers to solve any and all Information Technology issues with client base of 1000 workstations and 200 servers.  • Installs, configures, troubleshoots, and resolves problems on a wide variety of commercial and proprietary software such as Peachtree, Quickbooks, Microsoft Office Suite, etc via telephone, remote control and on-site support.  • Troubleshoot and solve problems with network connectivity involving local and wide area networks.  • Monitor and create client tickets used to document problems, issues, and change management requests to include troubleshooting and resolving requests within required time limits.  • Provides detailed documentation of man-hours expended to resolve client problems and time required to complete assigned project requirements.  • Identify, research, and resolve client IT system data integrity issues/anomalies and report unresolved problems promptly to management.  • Effectively communicates to clients, peers, and management any system issues that affect the quality or reliability of corporate or client supported systems  • Maintain and troubleshoot server platforms including but not limited to Active Directory issues, DNS, RRAS, Group Policy, Exchange, user shares/permissions, etc. Computer Technician Allied Computer Systems 2010 to 2011 • Consult with users to assess computing needs and system requirements.  • Assist users to diagnose and solve data communication, software, and hardware problems.  • Change out hardware components on both laptops and desktop computers. Shop Floor Controller/Assembler Pierce Manufacturing Co - Bradenton, FL 2007 to 2008 • Pulled shop orders using parts list for service department.  • Kept inventory and tracked parts using MRP system.  • Did assembly work and changed parts 0n custom orders for stock fire trucks.  • Maintained cleanliness and furthered 5s program in service warehouse. Technician Specialist Graham Packing Co - Bradenton, FL 2004 to 2007 • Required to possess a strong ability to trouble shoot mechanical issues in an onsite production environment  • Duties included studying gauges, pressures, and vital temperatures; Also  change out motors, gearboxes, conveyors, material hoppers, extruders, melt pipes, and other miscellaneous parts.  • Direct training and experience in the operation of blow molding. Maintained and worked on a blow molding Graham Wheel the makes 890z and 128oz HDPE plastic bottles.  • Assisted supervisor with label changes, and bottle production for an on site 24/7 customer.  • Performed quality checks during production to ensure product is in specifications. Directly addressed quality issues during production and required to take a proactive approach to maintaining the quality of HDPE bottles.  • Was line team captain and involved in the tracking of maintenance and issues on production line. Also assisted in the training of new employees and directly assisted lead mechanic and delegation of duties Education A.S. in Information Technology Keiser University - Sarasota, FL 2008 to 2010 Skills Active Directory (6 years), Exchange (6 years), LAN (Less than 1 year), networking (Less than 1 year), R2 (Less than 1 year), System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information SKILLS  • Proven ability to analyze and resolve technical problems  • Provide appropriate priority response to any situation as deemed necessary  • Good verbal/written communications skills and strong interpersonal skills to interact positively and productively with associated computer systems, end-users  • Experience with the installation, configuration of computer hardware, software, and peripheral equipment to include diagnostic methods, research techniques and development of IT procedures.  • Knowledge of IT concepts, practices, and procedures associated with hardware and software support.  • Working knowledge of Active Directory, Group Policy, Windows Domain networking, LAN and WAN, Windows Server 2003/2008 R2, Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8 and Windows 10  • Experience with Exchange 2003/2010/2013/2016