Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR - Vidyo, Inc Bayonne, NJ Work Experience Systems Administrator Vidyo, Inc - Hackensack, NJ April 2018 to Present Maintained entire network and security infrastructure for the company, including a mix of HP and Cisco switches, Cisco wireless controller and access points, Cisco ASA firewalls, remote and site-to-site VPNs, VPN filtering, and multiple VLANs per site, in 3 datacenters, 2 US offices, plus  Google Cloud Platform.  • Installed and supported an extensive variety of Windows (2008 to 2012 R2), Linux (Ubuntu and CentOS), and VMware servers. Also supported  applications such as Confluence, JIRA, Bitbucket, Bamboo, Skype for Business 2015, Okta, domain controllers, file servers, Nagios monitoring  servers.  • Led a team consisting of 2 desktop support technicians and interns. As the most senior member of the staff, I was able to provide quick answers  with my knowledge of the infrastructure, and brainstormed solutions that the junior staff members might not have thought about.  • Integrated nearly all applications (internal and cloud-hosted) with Active Directory, eliminating multiple passwords for various systems, saving  users' time and increasing ease of use. This was accomplished with either native AD connections, LDAPS, or Okta (SAML) depending on the application.  • Participated in a weekly Change Management process for documentation, review, and approval of changes to servers, infrastructure, and se- curity.  • Enhanced in place automation for repetitive and lengthy tasks, to lighten the load on the Helpdesk team and increase their efficiency. This  included writing new and enhancing existing PowerShell scripts for new hires and terminations, and setting up Quest's K1000 and K2000 for automated imaging and workstation inventory. Also utilized Quest K1000 appliance to automate software installs, eliminating the need to  touch the user's workstation.  • Migrated the IT inventory system from GLPI to SnipeIT for a more streamlined inventory management workflow as well as having automated  reports run and alerts triggered when IT inventory is low. IT SERVICE DESK ANALYST Hackensack, NJ November 2017 to April 2018 • Provided IT support to Vidyo's employees, server, systems, applications, and infrastructure.  • Scoped projects, developed action plans, and delivered results on time.  • Diagnosed and resolved technical hardware and software issues. LIBRARY ASSOCIATE, TECHNOLOGY Hudson County Community College - Jersey City, NJ January 2015 to August 2017 • Evaluate the software and hardware needs to improve Library services as well as maintained existing systems and services.  • Conduct training sessions for campus SMARTBoard and Epson Brightlink projectors as well as workships for Intel Galileo and Raspberry Pi.  • Provide phone and email support to students, staff and faculty for connecting to the Library's electronic resources. PC TECHNICIAN Hudson County Community College - Jersey City, NJ May 2015 to March 2016 • Researched and tested a new Integrated Library System that would go on to save the Library two thirds of its operating budget.  Jersey City, NJ  PC TECHNICIAN May 2015 - March 2016 PART-TIME LIBRARY ASSOCIATE, TECHNOLOGY Jersey City, NJ March 2013 to January 2015 Education A.S. in COMPUTER SCIENCE Hudson County Community College - Jersey City, NJ September 2009 to August 2013