Systems Administrator III <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> III Brooklyn Park, MN To continue to advance my expertise as a Systems Administrator utilizing my experience and skillsets to achieve an organization's overall objectives and provide a highly sustainable environment. Work Experience Systems Administrator III Children's Hospital - Minneapolis, MN February 2018 to Present • Utilize VMware to build and maintain all virtual server infrastructure.  • Manage and maintain monthly server patch management processes utilizing Altiris to ensure compliance of all server endpoints based on corporate and vendor standards.  • Plan, design, and execute Symantec Endpoint Protection deployment configurations and monitoring necessary to ensure 100% server protection within the organization.  • Create tasks, deliverables, and reports related to project status and create documentation including Standard Operating Procedures, user guides and process flows.  • Perform routine setups and ongoing maintenance of system applications including the management of security and user access permissions.  • Develop system application requirements, specifications, workflows, processes and recommendations for compliance initiatives.  • Manage IT Support queue, follow up with other support staff involved in resolution to ensure incidents are resolved, requests are filled, and customer communication is completed. Sr. Systems Administrator NAMSA - Saint Louis Park, MN July 2016 to February 2018 • Responsible for the implementation, management and support of all enterprise business solutions, including EMC Unity, EMC VNX, Nutanix, Avamar, Isilon, and VMware platforms that comprise all of NAMSA's storage, virtualization, backup and recovery infrastructure.  • Applied technical understanding to the development of proposals and solutions involving all current supported infrastructure.  • Provided estimates and plans to management to ensure all infrastructure hardware and software adequately installed, tested and documented.  • Developed and executed installs and upgraded operating systems and other software components relating to servers, storage and other aspects of Namsa infrastructure, including two large data center migrations and consolidation to a tier 4 colocation.  • Provided support to other key corporate systems including Active Directory, Exagrids, Cisco UCS, Veeam, Solarwinds, SQL, Office 365 and Azure.  • Manage and maintain all backup and recovery operations utilizing Avamar and Data Domain.  • Worked closely with IT Department and staff to ensure customer expectations were met, including scheduling, timelines, budget and quality of service. Systems Engineering Sr. Analyst Dell - Eden Prairie, MN January 2011 to July 2016 • Managed and supported all servers, storage and business applications for the Solutions Enablement Team within Dell|Compellent.  • Setup and supported our core CRM development, test and production environments running Hyper-v and SQl clusters on VMware utilizing Compellent storage.  • Duties included all storage provisioning, server builds and configurations necessary to support business applications, as well as software and OS installation, monitoring and patching to ensure stability and security best practices.  • Implemented all backup and recovery operations for all systems utilizing replay manager.  • Acquired the necessary security and firewall exceptions required for business systems to function between Compellent and Dell.  • Recommended and developed change management solutions and disaster recovery strategies in accordance with current business needs to ensure proper failover of key business systems. Systems Administrator Wings Financial Credit Union - Apple Valley, MN January 2000 to December 2010 • Administered all Compellent SAN and VMware vShpere 4 operations.  • Controlled and monitored all backup and recovery operations utilizing Symantec Backup Exec.  • Managed critical systems, software upgrades, and capacity planning.  • Performed software and hardware operations for servers, desktops and printers.  • Assisted employees with PC and desktop application issues with Zenworks. Education A.A.S. Minnesota School of Business, Brooklyn Center December 1999 Bachelor of Science in Aquatic Biology Bemidji State University - Bemidji, MN May 1997 Skills Backup exec. (10+ years), San (10+ years), Storage area network (10+ years), Veritas backup exec (10+ years), Vmware (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Linux (5 years), System Administrator (10+ years), LYNC (6 years), SCCM (1 year), Powershell (5 years)