Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - City of Lawrence Topeka, KS I began my career as a bench technician and worked my way through multiple facets of the the IT industry. Over the past 10 years, I have enjoyed and focused on Microsoft SQL Database Administration. I have recently taken on additional roles of administering our ESXI VMWare environment and server/SAN hardware.     I am a dedicated professional that is able to adapt quickly to on-the-fly situations and new products. I am looking to provide my technical skill sets to a professional organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator City of Lawrence November 2017 to Present ESXI administrator, managing 50+ servers on 7 hosts;  SAN administrator; physical server administrator; backup administrator using CommVault for onsite  and offsite locations; Primary support for McAfee EPO, Goverlan, Spiceworks, Solarwinds  Dameware, Onbase, Firehouse, MicroMain XM, Fleetfocus, FullCourt Enterprise, and RecTrac  programs; High-end workstation build and support; all DBA duties below. Database Administrator City of Lawrence July 2008 to Present SQL administrator for 80+ databases on 8 servers,  including development, maintenance, management, security, and report writing. Application and intranet development using PHP, ASP, VB.net, DHTML, JQuery; including Visa transactions  reconciliation, court parking access control interface, grant information management, and multiple  interfaces to new and existing SQL, MySQL, Progress, AS400, and Oracle databases. Network Technician City of Lawrence April 2005 to July 2008 Computer hardware, software, and network implementation,  diagnostic, and repair. Hardware and software consultation for new builds. Support for 500+  workstations, servers, network devices and peripherals in cityhall and 26 remote locations. Frontline  support for 800+ fulltime employees. CLC Technical Director SEKESC - Girard, KS May 2003 to April 2005 Directed Technical department (5 staff members) for CLC & VPL  projects; technical documentation & briefings; developed technical program advancement and standards; prioritized projects and maintained project deadlines; trained new staff; technical &  professional consultation; web programming and application development. CLC Technical Specialist SEKESC - Girard, KS January 2002 to April 2005 - Frontline support for all educational software programs:  A+LS, Blackboard, Digital Curriculum; System Administrator for 18 CLC sites around SE Kansas  (280+ systems); Support and Consultation for 115+ VPL school districts. Software development using  MySQL, PHP, DHTML. Developed first internet site for VPL, online forms, and 2 call center  software programs. Supervised technical support; Vendor procurement; Staff development; Customer  service/relations. Systems Technician/Sr Manager Flint Hills Computer Systems, Inc - Manhattan, KS August 1998 to November 2001 Computer system diagnostics and repair, in-store and on-site;  new system consulting and design; Hardware and software networking integration; Team  leadership and management; Product research; Internet application development using DHTML;  Customer service. Education Construction Science and Management Kansas State University - Manhattan, KS 1992 to 1997 Skills SQL Database (10+ years), JQuery (10+ years), maintenance (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), Vmware, System Admin, Active Directory, System Administrator, DBA, Sql Server, Sql Dba Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/thanzlik Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ March 2000 to Present CompTIA A+ is the preferred qualifying credential for technical support and IT operational roles. Comptia I-Net+ March 2002 to Present The CompTIA i-Net+ certification validates the knowledge of technical and non-technical professionals with at least six months experience in Internet, Intranet, Extranet and E-commerce technologies. Microsoft Technology Associate - Database Fundamentals March 2014 to Present Proves introductory knowledge of and skills with databases, including relational databases, such as Microsoft SQL Server. Additional Information QUALIFICATIONS & SKILLS:    • COMPTia A+ & Inet+ Certified Technician   • ESXI 6.0/6.5 standard administration  • MTA: Database Fundamentals   • Open-E DSS 6/7 configuration  • Peer & Client/Server Networking experience   • Hardware/software specification consultation  • Expertise with Windows OS installation,   • Disaster Recovery and Escalation SOP  maintenance, & repair  • Expertise in systems analysis   • Resource Management  • 9 years of database management and development   • Remote Administration  • Transact, PHP, JQuery, XML, VBS, Powershell   • Organizational skills; attention to detail  • Application Development   • Logical and goal orientated    SOFTWARE KNOWLEDGE:    • Windows OS: workstation and server   • SQL Server 2014 (and prior) and related client tools   • ESXI VMWare / vCenter 5.5-6.5  • McAfee EPO  • Active Directory, DNS, IIS  • Dreamweaver  • Business Intelligence Development Studio   • RDP, Dameware, Goverlan  • Microsoft Visual Studio  • MySQL and related client tools   • Microsoft Office Suites