Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Fort Worth, TX Work Experience Systems Administrator KPS Global LLC - Fort Worth, TX February 2016 to April 2019 Provides Systems support for all infrastructure services including but not limited to Networking, Telecom, Exchange, Windows Servers, and Office 365. Manage and maintain company's servers running in our Vmware environment.    • Migrated domains  • Build Development and production windows/Linux servers  • Migrated company endpoints from windows 7 to windows 10  • Active directory administration, Including GPO's for managing Kiosk and end user pc's  • Build and manage windows 7/10 client images and deploy via MDT from PXE  • Build and manage Kiosk images and Digital Display pc's images  • Manage and Support O365 software and Windows store for Business  • Create and manage O365 Sharepoint sites and permissions  • Configure and manage DHCP, DNS, SNMP services  • Monitor network equipment  • Setup configure and maintain Vlans and switches, including firmware updates  • Assisted Helpdesk with desktop hardware and software issues  • Manage file/server backup and restore with Veeam Managed Services Specialist nDivision - Carrollton, TX August 2015 to February 2016 Managed Services Specialist is responsible for resolving incoming technical telephone requests, service desk tickets, and email requests, for technical assistance on a wide variety of hardware and software applications. Consistent customer care, quality standards, and reporting requirements are core competencies of the position. Ability to quickly adapt to changing priorities and fluctuations in workflow are requirements of the Managed Services Specialist role as well as the ability to multitask.    • Monitor network devices  • Troubleshoot and repair windows servers  • Administer accounts, Exchange, Active Directory, etc.  • Perform system updates and maintenance  • Manage remote servers running Hyper-v or ESXI  • Configure voip phones, network printers and devices Sr. Tech Support Rep Southwest Airlines - Dallas, TX November 2013 to August 2015 CONTRACT  Provided technical support for Southwest Airlines employees nationwide for hardware and over 900 business applications in an enterprise environment.    • Provided first call resolution for 90% of incoming calls for all hardware and software related issues  • Performed new hire account creation in active directory and MS exchange  • Assigned and installed applications via SCCM  • Performed monthly McAfee repairs and updates for PCI compliance  • Participated in bridge calls for business, impacting IT related outages  • Supported over 800 applications Sr. Helpdesk Support Analyst Parkland Memorial Hospital - Dallas, TX December 2012 to August 2013 CONTRACT  Provided expert support to end-users for PC, service or mainframe applications, and hardware of complex networking and hospital/health applications in an enterprise environment.    • Provided excellent technical and customer support for hardware and software related issues  • Updated and maintained the Helpdesk Knowledge Base with pertinent technical documents  • Maintained call stats related to Time On Call, Calls Handled and Customer feedback Remote Operated Vehicles Technician/Pilot Oceaneering International Inc - Morgan City, LA January 2012 to November 2012 Responsibilities included operating ROV's in a safe and efficient manner. Maintained and repaired all electronic, electrical systems, and sub- systems associated with Remotely Operated Vehicles including component repair, replacement, and troubleshooting.    • Completed intensive sixteen-week training program with top grades  • Troubleshot and repaired fiber optic cabling  • Configured and maintained system cameras and video recording devices  • Maintained and troubleshot 480,120 and 24 volt electrical systems.  • Maintained hydraulics system and tools  • Operated and maintained computer control systems and software Sr. Help Desk Analyst Brinks Inc - Coppell, TX December 2007 to January 2012 Provided technical support for all internal employees for both hardware and software needs related to the Cash Logistics industry. Created and maintained employee's Active Directory and MS Exchange accounts. Used multiple ticketing systems to log all calls.    • Assisted Desktop support team with migration to Windows 7  • Basic pc repair, replace hard drives, Laptop keyboards etc.  • Updated and maintained the Helpdesk Knowledge Base technical documents  • Assisted with Lotus Notes migration to MS Exchange  • Created and maintained user Active Directory accounts and permissions  • Created and maintained user Microsoft Exchange accounts  • Recorded support incidents in Remedy ticket system  • Setup and installed network printers, scanners and projectors and managed permissions.  • Added and removed workstations from the Active Directory and managed domain access  • Manage and Deploy software with SCCM Helpdesk Contract Work Lewisville - Dallas, TX August 2007 to November 2007 Verizon Wireless/Capital One - Helpdesk Support Technician  Provided technical support for all internal employees for both hardware and software needs.    • Reset passwords for billing systems  • Handled an average of 40 calls per day  • Reported and logged all troubleshooting calls in Remedy/Magic Ticket system Fiber Customer Support Analyst/Team Lead Verizon Communications - Dallas, TX February 2005 to January 2007 Provided customer technical support for the Verizon FIOS FTTP network for TV, Telephone, and Broadband services. Answered escalated customer calls in a supervisory role for problem resolution. Provided team members with technical and customer service related support.    • Acted in Supervisory role and resolved customer escalations  • Answered fiber support analyst questions concerning approach towards trouble resolution  • Resolved trouble with equipment setup and assisted in router configuration  • Configured Motorola cable box and TV settings for optimal picture and sound quality  • Talk customers through home entertainment connection and setup  • Used remote access to telephone switching equipment to change calling features Fire Control Technician-Submarines United States Navy - Bangor, WA July 2000 to November 2004 Maintained ship's computer network and fire control computers systems software and hardware. Maintained ship's Windows NT 4.0 server and MS Exchange server and user accounts.    • Maintained all Submarine LAN systems, Windows NT 4.0 server, and MS Exchange server  • Maintained all user exchange and Active Directory accounts for over 100 crew members  • Acted as the Control Part Petty Officer to order and track all required repair parts and equipment  • Installed and tested new hardware and software on all fire control and LAN systems Education Asher College July 2013 to July 2014 Information Systems Administrator Vincennes University April 2004 to October 2004 High school or equivalent in Flower mound, Texas Flower mound marcus 1996 to 2000 Skills Active Directory, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, DNS, Powershell Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: e4 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ August 2014 to Present MCTS: Windows 7, Configuration September 2013 to Present Windows server 2008 Acrive Directory C 70-640 February 2014 to Present ITIL June 2014 to Present