Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr Systems Administrator and Active Directory Specialist for Managed Services Troy, MI ? Microsoft Enterprise Solutions (Active Directory, DFS, Office 365) Specialist  ? Experience managing multiple simultaneous enterprise environments with hundreds of servers in diverse locations  ? CompTIA A+ certified  ? Expertise in server and workstation setup and installation, hardware and software troubleshooting, and operating system optimization  ? Extensive familiarity with the creation of batch processes to automate backup and other procedures  ? MCSA certifications pending Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Cutting Edge Computers - Pontiac, MI February 2019 to June 2019 • Resolved all hardware and software troubleshooting issues for all systems including Windows Server, Windows 10, VMWare, devices and services  • Utilized Autotask for ticketing and LogMeIn for remote access  • Automated Active Directory cleanup using Powershell  • Created Group Policies  • Reviewed IT security practices of clients  • Supported several hundred Windows servers from 2003 to 2019 System Administrator CJL Engineering March 2018 to September 2018 Resolved all hardware and software troubleshooting issues for all systems including Windows, Dell, Sonicwall, VMWare, VEEAM, Barracuda, Office 365, and Meraki devices and services  Installed and configured any hardware required  Traveled to remote sites for support and installation  Created project plan for complete file system migration  Automated Active Directory and Exchange Online management tasks using powershell  Used Spiceworks as the ticketing system  Created Group Policies used as templates  Wrote and reviewed IT standards and practices Technology Business Engineer NET Xperts July 2017 to January 2018 Resolved all troubleshooting issues by phone and at client sites for all systems including Windows server, android, Barracuda, Office 365, VMWare, and Watchguard devices and services  Installed and configured any hardware required  Traveled to client sites for support and installation  Used Autotask for ticketing and both N-Able and Teamviewer for remote support Sr Systems Administrator and Active Directory Specialist for Managed Services Ascent Data September 2013 to May 2016 Managed all Active Directory environments for Ascent Data and 18 client companies with hundreds of servers  ? Created Group Policies used as templates across all organizations  ? Wrote and reviewed IT standards used in Ascent Data and client companies  ? Made all IT related decisions for entire client companies  ? Created Managed Services Catalogue to define provided services  ? Deployed complete systems including Active Directory, Exchange, Office 365, DFS, workstations, ect  ? Installed and configured Microsoft Windows Server for Active Directory, Exchange, backup, terminal services, print services, centralized antivirus, DFS, and AMS centralization  ? Migrated Active Directory domains to merge and diverge infrastructures  ? Updated environments to newer servers, including service migration and decentralization IT Consultant / Server Administrator Answergroup May 2013 to July 2013 Installed and configured Microsoft Windows Server SBS and Enterprise Editions for Active Directory, Exchange, backup, terminal services, print services, centralized antivirus, and AMS centralization  ? Coordinated with mass deployment efforts for medium sized businesses  ? Converted small businesses over to Active Directory and Exchange environments in SBS  ? Managed Watchguard XTM series firewalls  ? Improved security policies for small businesses  ? Provided full technical support for end users in the above environments Owner / Administrator PLUR.FM February 2010 to February 2013 Installed and configured station using Shoutcast DNAS and Transcoder, and Apache on a Linode Ubuntu VPS over SSH only using a GUI for a single windows application that needed to run in Wine  ? Administered the server day to day operations using SSH, FTP, VIM, and Public/Private keys,  ? Automated server tasks using Cron and shell scripts  ? Implemented Google Apps for business to handle mail and productivity software  ? Resolved all technical challenges that arose  ? Automated broadcasting using batch scripting and a compressing mixer Senior Technical Analyst Carpathian Systems March 2011 to January 2012 Sold desktops, laptops, and computer related parts  ? Handled all upgrades and break fix issues.  ? Managed workflow  ? Headed technical department  ? Ordered parts  ? Checked in customers Helpdesk/Mass Deployment Specialist ANSYS January 2011 to April 2011 contract position)  ? Responsible for PC Support, Software installation, Microsoft Office and Outlook issue resolution.  ? Upgrades and break fix issues.  ? Mass deployment of all new PCs company-wide at headquarters.  ? Account administration tasks, using Active Directory.  ? Wrote complex batch files to automate backup and restore processes Helpdesk ServiceLink December 2010 to January 2011 Helpdesk (contract position)  ? Responsible for PC Support, Software installation, Microsoft Office and Outlook issue resolution.  ? Upgrades and break fix issues.  ? Mass deployment of all new PCs company-wide at multiple locations.  ? Account administration tasks, using Active Directory. Help Desk Technician (Contract) American Eagle October 2010 to December 2010 Responsible for remote support of retail locations.  Break fix issues.  Network Support for uniformly configured Cisco devices. Helpdesk UPMC June 2009 to October 2010 Helpdesk (contract position)  ? Mass Deployment tasks such as formatting new PCs and installing operating system and applications  ? Resolved trouble tickets in person and via phone on an enterprise network.  ? Resolved software issues and upgrades.  ? Wrote complex batch files to automate backup and restore processes for other teams  ? Resolved miscellaneous Mass Deployment and PC Support issues at offsite locations. Computer Repair Technician / Sales Associate Computer Alley - Ann Arbor, MI October 2006 to June 2008 Sold computer equipment and parts.  ? Diagnosed, repaired, and configured any incoming service.  ? Assist and troubleshoot customer issues via phone. Computer Repair Technician Paul Holm Computers - Farmington Hills, MI February 2004 to October 2006 Accompanied owner to on-site calls at homes, businesses, and in repair lab.  ? Diagnosed, repaired, and configured computers in lab. Computer Repair Technician My Computer Guys of Michigan - Plymouth, MI January 2004 to February 2004 Responsible for fixing computers, formatting hard drives, installing and optimizing windows, and removing malware.  Work with other technicians on-site at homes and businesses. Education High school or equivalent Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (7 years), EXCHANGE (5 years), MICROSOFT WINDOWS (5 years), MICROSOFT OFFICE (2 years), MS OFFICE (2 years), System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin Additional Information Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows (98, 2000, XP, 7, Server (2003 through 2012 versions, enterprise and SBS), Linux (Ubunutu, CentOS, Fedora), Android, iOS, BlackBerry  Server Roles: Active Directory, Exchange, DHCP, DNS, RRAS, HTTP, File Server, Printing, Shoutcast  Software: Citrix, Exchange, McAfee, Entire Microsoft Office suite, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Google Apps, Dameware, PuTTY, SCP, Remote Desktop, Altiris, OpenOffice, AVG, Norton Ghost  Hardware: Dell, HP, IBM, Lenovo, MPC, Toshiba, Cisco, Samsung, Fujitsu, AMD, ASUS, Intel, Nvidia, ATI, Matrox, Acer, Rosewill, Seagate, Western Digital, Watchguard  Cloud services: Office 365, Google Apps