Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Technical/Customer Support Wizard looking for a home Camarillo, CA I am looking for a position near or within Camarillo. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator II AGIA Affinity - Carpinteria, CA May 2016 to February 2019 Provided current technology tools to support productivity standards for internal clients by deploying, upgrading and maintaining workstations, servers and peripheral systems, including mobile devices, LAN infrastructure, data security and software integration.    1. Supported, implemented and restored to working order all hardware and software  2. Worked within active directories to set up and configure user and email accounts  3. Maintained backup systems, servers and administrator databases  4. Installed and configured software, operating systems and virtual user environments  5. Provided customer support on internal customer issues and tracked their resolution  6. Created, revised and edited documentation on new and existing product documentation, installation procedures and configurations  7. Monitored network performance to ensure availability of all network services  8. Worked to improve the reliability of all hardware and software systems  9. Planned and implemented security solutions to prevent internal and external threats to the system and information Product Support Specialist Voice Print International - Camarillo, CA November 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities  Support and Assist in the maintenance and upgrading of customer systems.  I was in training Learning the product from the PBX systems to the Servers to the Data collection systems.    Accomplishments  Finished 5 months of training with much praise for my work ethics and drive.  (Company was sold without notice and was released from contract)    Skills Used  All of them and Added some basic writing of SQL scripts and deep problem analysis skills. Desktop Support Specialist Baxalta Pharmaceutical, - Westlake Village, CA June 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities  • Began a three month contract to assist in Active Directory Migration after the company transitioned from Baxter to Baxalta  • Received multiple positive performance reviews, resulting in contract extension and role expansion  • Current role overseeing project replacing technology hardware after 3 years of use and constructing new computers     Accomplishments  Multiple accolades and expansion of Contract    Skills Used  Computer knowledge and the ability to listen and understand issues. Technical Specialist/Off-Site Project Manager Salem Communications - Camarillo, CA August 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities  • Created and updated computer images to meet the current industry software and hardware standards  • Also took on responsibility for updating all the current ghost images to meet industry standards  • Role expanded to include travel to sites throughout the United States of America (USA) implementing system updates    Accomplishments  • Promoted to Project Manager, working with General Managers to guide customer expectations and manage load balance    Skills Used  Computer Knowledge  Verbal Judo   Patience Senior EPS Technician/Product Support Specialist Exaktime Inc. - Calabasas, CA February 2010 to March 2013 Responsible for over-the-phone facilitation of installation and support of product software, serving as a team leader by supervising other team members and assisting with their difficult calls as needed. Documented record of high customer  service approval ratings, product knowledge and a solid working relationship with customers and colleagues.  Experienced Product Support Specialist and Project Manager Helpdesk Specialist Curtco Media - Malibu, CA December 2005 to February 2010 Managed the West Coast Help desk for the publishing arm of Curtco Media, covering 8 physical locations. Responsible for assembly and testing of new desk top computer systems. Maintenance and support of computers and systems in 805.252.7157 dwscraggs@gmail.com    person and via telephone or remote access. In charge of software installation, mail maintenance, management of telephone and voicemail systems, and both purchasing and accounts payable functions. Refresh Team Lead and Project Manager Verizon at Wellpoint - Newbury Park, CA December 2004 to July 2005 Responsibilities included training new employees and being their information source to do their job effectively. Created the departmental "How to" document for the Refresh Team. Streamlined the Refresh process. Responsible for the warehouse and its inventory as well as all computers rolled out to the floor. Created a control spreadsheet to track of computers in real  time. Spearheaded the Preventive Maintenance project from scratch to national release. Assigned several high profile  projects earning accolades from the corporate office. Technical Support Specialist - Second Level Kinko's Inc - Ventura, CA January 2003 to December 2004 Responsibilities included supporting all Kinko's branches in the US and Canada for Point of Sale and Express Pay  products. Troubleshooting from component level and software programming using PCAnywhere. Worked with team  members via remote access as well as at the company headquarters. Technical Support Lead Netlojix - Santa Barbara, CA March 2002 to January 2003 Helpdesk department manager at start up. Provided telephone desktop support on applications and software for two  corporate organizations. Directed staff and resolved questions for help desk coworkers. Technical Support Specialist InfoGenesis - Santa Barbara, CA June 2000 to March 2002 Supported Point of Sale software and hardware for national and international customers. Managed help desk including  call control and escalation, answering operational questions as well as software and hardware configuration. Clients  included casinos, golf courses and restaurants with the software product optimized to fit their individual needs. Technical Support Supervisor Cox Communication - Santa Barbara, CA November 1999 to June 2000 Responded to customer e-mail requests for technical help or information utilizing knowledge of modern re-provisioning and all phases of account setup. Performed daily technical support operations. Contacted challenging callbacks to ensure they had received excellent customer service. Technical Support Supervisor Cox Communication - San Diego, CA April 1998 to November 1999 Conducted interviews regarding industry standards in LAN/WAN and Datafile on computers ranging from terminals to mainframes and formatted data for presentation. Provided training to new team members on policy and procedure. Education Westlake Culinary Academy 2011 A.A. in Computer Technologies San Diego College 1993 Skills Sql Server (Less than 1 year), System Admin, Active Directory, System Administrator