Systems Administrator I <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I Systems Administrator I - Early Warning Services Scottsdale, AZ Work Experience Systems Administrator I Early Warning Services - Scottsdale, AZ March 2018 to Present Assist in creating processes and performing tasks needed to maintain the overall integrity and reliability of Windows contained in a VMware environment.  • Responsible for the administration, installation, configuration and maintenance of Windows Server and VMware operating systems, mostly contained in virtual environments, moderate work on physical servers may apply.  • Diagnose, root cause analysis, and problem resolution in Windows environments.  • Performance tuning of operating systems and applications.  • Create and/or edit policies, work instructions, and associated server documentation.  • Support existing server infrastructure in an on-call capacity as part of a team rotation  • Implement defined changes to existing operating system infrastructure including patches, users, and file systems.  • Maintain and update operating system versions and toolsets to improve security and stability  • Support the company's commitment to protect the integrity and confidentiality of systems and data Technical Support Analyst, TriWest Progilisys - Phoenix, AZ February 2017 to Present • Provide desktop support locally and via incoming telephone calls and tickets (TrackIT).  • Ability work without direct supervision.  • Maintains a friendly presence, while keeping a helpful attitude. Technical Support Specialist K&L Gates - Pittsburgh, PA February 2017 to November 2017 • Provide desktop support via incoming telephone calls and tickets (Cherwell). Resolve customer issues in accordance with first call resolution while balancing speed and quality. Training new employees; this would include monitoring how telephone calls are handled. How to answer emails that are coming into the GSD mailbox. How to answer Cherwell tickets that are coming in from GSD Connect. Respond to queries either via email or telephone to determine and diagnose deskside issues and inform on incident progress.  • Responsible for setting up Email Alias and Distribution List via Exchange 2010.  • Ability work without direct supervision.  • Maintains a friendly presence, while keeping a helpful attitude and building relationship with end users and Partners. Enterprise Tech Support Senior Analyst Dell Software November 2012 to November 2016 Provided application support via incoming tickets (Seibel). Resolved customer issues in accordance with service level agreements (SLAs) balancing speed and quality. Provided break-fix support for incoming queries and issues related to software applications. Responded to queries either via email telephone or chat application to determine and diagnose software issues and inform on incident progress. Supported disaster recovery solutions - Recovery Manager for Active Directory and Recovery Manager for Exchange. Performed quality assurance testing for software module upgrades / changes. Maintained knowledge base articles by writing and updating policies and procedures. Documented and maintained configuration and process information.  • Reproduced end-users' issues, sending findings to product development team, leading to either a quick fix or for inclusion in future product release, saving company money.  • Recognized for subject matter expertise with Active Directory products, handling 20 to 30 cases allowing company to avoid spending money on additional staff. Computer Analyst/ Tier II Gannett - McLean, VA October 2005 to November 2012 Provided Windows and IOS device support. Worked with CA Service Desk ticketing system and troubleshot hardware. Performed tier II level support. Before moving to the Server Team; I would work with new hires and coach them on how to work with the 'runsheet' to confirm processes were being kicked off and monitored. Managed unclaimed ticket queue and route tickets per escalation matrix. Directly resolved or appropriately escalated user reported problems / issues. Supported Exchange 2003 and 2007 (server and end-user support). Assisted with Microsoft Office Suite, Active Directory, Group Policy, TCP / IP. Deployed server builds through VMware. Installed ESX software for POC Data Center and supplied data center support as needed (building, racking, and cabling servers). While working in Phoenix, I would train or provide knowledge to other teams when they had questions regarding backups, servers, or applications.  • Presented users with immediate means of reporting and explaining problems by establishing direct voice link.  • Identified problem trends and provide recommended solutions, ensuring prompt, satisfactory resolution of issues.  • Achieved status as "go-to-person", upgrading backup infrastructure for East Coast Data Center, testing in lab environment ensuring all software criteria, confirming possible issues that would arise, and successfully implementing on time.  • Provided data center support for server and iSeries by building racking and cabling servers installed at Phoenix Data Center, resulting in server being turned on and used. Education Associate's Degree(AA in Information Technology Laurel Business Institute - Uniontown, PA Skills System Admin, Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/shawnettem Additional Information AND QUALIFICATIONS  IT professional capable of quickly adapting to changing environments, while being flexible. Identify, troubleshoot, and resolve issues within a timely manner. Excellent communications skills, able to go above and beyond to provide onsite and remote support. Track record of minimizing downtime and maximizing profits. Calmly manage urgent and complex projects. Known for providing outstanding onsite and remote assistance. Ability to work well under pressure, while maintaining professional demeanor.  Knowledgeable with:  • MS Windows 2003 / 2008 / 2012 and MS Windows OS 7 / 8 / 10  • MS SCCM and WSUS  • Symantec End Point  • Symante Altiris  • Windows Operating Systems  • Exchange 2007, 2010, 2013, and o365  • Quest Software Products - Archive Manager, Recovery Manager for Exchange and AD, GPOAdmin, Enterprise Reporter, Spotlight on Active Directory and Exchange  • Backup Software - Symantec NetBackup, Backup Exec  • Active Directory, IIS, DNS, DHCP, and CIFS / NFS sharing  • Microsoft SQL Server 2012/ 2014 / 2016; run simple SQL queries  • ESX Host and VMWare builds