Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Salisbury, MD Offering accomplished experience and technical expertise in the areas of Desktop Support, System Administrator and technical support across Windows and Mac environments. Areas of expertise are in hardware, software and network client applications. Exhibits experience and professional knowledge of current desktop, laptop software/hardware configuration, networking, operating systems, corporate applications and utilities. Soft skills trained to communicate highly technical information to technical staff and non-technical end-users. Providing outstanding oral and written communication skills is a part of my daily duties. Work Experience Systems Administrator The Bridge Corp - Fort Lee, NJ September 2018 to December 2018 • Performed systems administrator responsibilities for supporting 150 plus users in the NJ office.  • Implemented and supported Office 365 migrations  • Performed daily monitoring of all systems and applications, verifying the integrity, and availability of hardware, server resources, and key processes.  • Researched and recommended hardware, software, and automation for IT administration tasks. Maintained an on premise, and collocated data center in accordance with standards and operational requirements.  • Desktop Management: Fully responsible for the procurement, deployment, troubleshooting, and asset management of all Windows based desktops and laptops onsite and remotely.  • Day to Day included:  ? I.T. support - all request and incidents  ? White Glove support C-Level Executive Leadership  ? New hire and term administrator - setup new hires (AD account, Gmail, office phone, equipment, etc)  ? Worked with developers on creating a Azure AD structure.  ? Administrated O365 admin portals.  ? Super admin for Google G-Suite - All support and configurations  ? Windows 7, Windows 10  ? Mac administrator - Support, configure, and deployments  ? Microsoft office 2010, 2013, and 365  ? Windows Deployment Services - Image building  ? Server support - Windows Server 2016  ? Level 2, Level 3 support  ? Refreshes/Rebuilds/imaging  ? Break/Fix  ? Data Backups - HR files (confidential), databases, network shares  ? Google Chromecast setup, configuration, and support for all conference rooms  ? Active directory management - Group policy creator  ? McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (McAfee ePO) - Built EPO server and database as well as admin support and policy configurations  ? Hardware/Software support  ? Cisco Anyconnect VPN support  ? Asset management - created a system for data collection of all corporate equipment tagging and user assigned equipment deployed and in stock  ? Phone systems setup and admin- Polycom, RingCentral such as desk phones and soft phones  ? Migrations - Moved company from DropBox to Network share drives - Configured, setup and migrated  ? Moved company from Symantec to McAfee  ? Created admin portals and setup vendors for equipment purchases to a centralized platform  ? Software licensing administrator  ? Employee access passes - Setup, configure, enable or disable  ? Objective was to bring a growing company to a corporate standard Systems Administrator Experian - New York, NY February 2015 to May 2018 • Performed systems administrator responsibilities for supporting 450 plus users in the NY office single-handedly as well supporting the North America and United Kingdom locations.  • Implemented use of PowerShell scripting for remote systems support as well as dump specs that was loaded in Excel for reporting purposes.  • Implemented and supported Office 365 migrations  • Performed daily monitoring of all systems and applications, verifying the integrity, and availability of hardware, server resources, and key processes.  • Researched and recommended hardware, software, and automation for IT administration tasks. Maintained an on premise, and collocated data center in accordance with standards and operational requirements.  • Desktop Management: Fully responsible for the procurement, deployment, troubleshooting, and asset management of all Windows based desktops and laptops onsite and remotely.  • Day to Day included:  ? White Glove support C-Level Executive Leadership  ? Windows 7 and 10. Mac OS X10.11 El Capitan and Mac OS X v.10.12 Sierra  ? Microsoft office 2010, 2013, and 365  ? Level 2, Level 3 support  ? Refreshes/Rebuilds/imaging  ? Break/Fix  ? Active directory  ? McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (McAfee ePO)  ? SCCM  ? Hardware/Software support  ? Cisco Anyconnect VPN support  ? Asset management - FlexNet Manager Suite  ? A/V setup and support for all conference rooms  ? User data migration  ? Technical adviser  ? Command prompt specialist  ? Examines, pinpoints and detects windows startup and process vulnerability  ? Processing end of lease assets  ? Windows Management Instrumentation Command line  ? New hire setup, and training  ? Release management  ? Incidents and request support  Achievement  ? Support ticket closer record breaker Support Technician Consultant PepsiCo - Purchase, NY September 2013 to April 2014 • Migration from Windows XP to Windows 7 for desktops and laptops  • End user contact and coordination  • HP Service Manager 9  • Uses interaction and incident system to log, assign, resolve and escalate tickets using Remedy and Service Manager 9  • Outlook 2010 support  • Imaging/Ghost 32  • Active directory  • Troubleshoots and restores technical services and/or equipment issues  • Manages staffing and schedule of help desk analysts  • Serves as first line of support to meet customer needs  • User data migration  • Onboard applications and infrastructure components  • Level 1 and Level 2 software and hardware support  • Analyzes, identifies and diagnoses faults and systems using defined processes and tools  • Processing end of lease assets  • Served as the key interface with the backline support teams to prevent problems, facilitates problem resolution, and provides overall outstanding customer services Technical Consultant/Technician/Sales Isime Computer Repair - Bronx, NY January 2005 to September 2013 • Provided technical support to local businesses and residents  • Phone support/onsite support/remote support  • Carried out SEO (Search Engine Optimization)  • Rebuilt desktops and laptops PC/IMacs  • Executed Deployment and configurations for desktops and laptops  • Performed software installation and upgrades  • Completed Break/Fix and repairs  • Strong communication skills  • Provided Blackberry, Android and IPhone support (configurations and repair)  • Offered technical advice to end-users as well as trained end-users  • Experienced in web design and marketing.  • Network design LAN/WLAN  • Resold electronics Support Consultant Geller & Company Smart Source Rentals, GlobalNest, The Peak Organization Inc February 2007 to November 2012 Provided after hour and /or part-time support for clients on short term consulting projects.  Clients included: Nielsen Ratings, Geller & Company Smart Source Rentals, GlobalNest, The Peak Organization Inc. and TAC Worldwide, NY  Served as a Desktop Support Technician  • PC/Mac roll out  • Decommissioned desktops  • Built desktops  • Outlook 2010 support  • Configured desktops, VOIP phones, and printers  • Asset review  • Technical Support to end-users  Served as a Helpdesk Analyst  • Primary responsibility of staff computers and cell phone (Blackberry, Android)  • PC/Mac environment  • Active directory  • Altiris/Remedy ticketing system  • Phone support  • Identifies computer hardware, software and telecommunications malfunctions and takes appropriate action to resolve issues ensuring data/ system integrity  • Outlook 2010 support  • Analyzed problems (both technical and operational) and dispatched IT Services staff and/or vendor representatives to resolve problems  Served as a Support Technician  • Provided remote and in-person technical support for over 400 students  • Experience with providing professional technical support in the classroom  • Troubleshot printers  • Laptop configuration and support at Brooklyn College  • PC/Mac environment  Served as a Desktop Support  • Dell deployment  • Microsoft Exchange Server  • Configured CPU's onto their domain/network  • Imaging/Norton Ghost  • Troubleshot printers  • Minor troubleshooting (Bios Setup)  • Project was for Milbank  Served as a Desktop Support  • Responsible for servicing and upgrading various Social Security Administration Offices in Manhattan  • De-installations and re-installations  • Upgrades, imaging, ongoing support  • Active directory  • Install and upgrade clients systems  • Identify and advise client's needs and clarify recommendations  • Troubleshot printers Education Bachelor's in Business in Business & Information Systems Ashford University - Clinton, IA Skills Active directory (9 years), Altiris (5 years), Ghost (6 years), Mac (9 years), Remedy (6 years)