Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Premier Designs Plano, TX Accomplished Systems Administrator with over 15 years of experience managing server infrastructure and data-center operations. Effectively plan, install, configure and optimize the IT infrastructure to achieve high availability and performance. Personable with a unique talent for combining collaborative vendor talents to achieve cost effective project objectives. Adept in the follow-through of an opportunity from concept to closure with the flexibility to work as either a team player or individual. Experienced in all infrastructure for data center networks, while working in a matrix organization and incorporating technical and relationship skills.    • Skilled in Vendor Management • Technical Knowledge of VMware  • 15+ years in Information Technology  • Technical Knowledge of Datacenter    • Customer Relationship Development  • Technical Knowledge of Distribution Center    • Problem Solving & Resolution Driven • Proficient in Windows Server 2003, 2008 and 2016  • Team Player & Ability to Travel • Technical Knowledge of vBlock, vXRail and Blade Work Experience Systems Administrator Premier Designs - Irving, TX 2015 to Present • Manage the IT Infrastructure to successfully build and sustain the network, servers, SAN, Backup System, VM, IP phone system, Audio-Visual, Anti-Virus and all other IT infrastructure devices/ systems.  • Project lead migrating end users from a VDI environment to a Windows 10 desktop environment.  • Managed Web-World at annual company national event supporting ~5,000 independent jewelers.  • Collaborated with business partners to optimize our infrastructure.  • Provided Audio/Visual support for company museum and remote retreat facility.  • Project lead upgrading an AVAYA phone system from r9 to r11.  • Configured Solarwinds for monitoring of systems.  • Responsible for computer system (CASI) that facilitated the distribution of product, from the pick line to packing to shipping.  • Project Lead transitioning the pick line from a voice to a visual pick, which optimized efficiency in the Distribution Center.  • Implemented new security id badge program. Systems Administrator / Engineer / Vendor Manager ONCOR - Irving, TX 2009 to 2015 • Established and maintained vendor relationships ensuring ONCOR's technical needs were cost effectively met.  • Provided technical evidence to meet NERC CIP requirements.  • Manage and administrate an Enterprise domain in the ONCOR network.  • Responsible for the over-all system administration on Dell and IBM servers at 2 datacenters.  • Responsible for the day-to-day desktop functionality at two Dispatch Operation centers.  • Responsible for the configuration and deployment of Windows 2003 and 2008 servers.  • Responsible for two 12 desktop training / multi-media rooms.  • Train new entry-level personnel on server and desktop administration.  • Ensured that all Windows based systems were kept up-to-date with Microsoft patching using Shavlik.  • Ensured changes were accurately documented in Remedy Change Management.  • Administered a wireless access point to the internet for visitors at two datacenters.  • Lead on the following Projects:  • Upgrade of new server hardware to Dell M1000e Blade Enclosures and m520 and m620 blades and Dell Compellent Storage systems. Actively participated in this project alongside Dell Engineers to ensure consistency and accuracy of the installation and configuration of the new hardware.  • Responsible for the decommissioning of server hardware ensuring proper change management and correctness of AD.  • Responsible for implementing a 3GB desktop application on over 2000 corporate systems at over 50 sites, project finished ahead of schedule and under-budget.  • Improved system security by migrating entire domain from Symantec Anti-Virus 10 to Symantec EndPoint 12.1.  • Built out two completely new computer rooms including network, power, A/C, and shelving. Systems Technology Consultant ONCOR - Irving, TX 2008 to 2009 • Assigned to perform system administration work on contract from CapGemini to ONCOR for the Smart Grid Project.  • Attend meetings and provide valued input to the customer on setup and configuration of Server systems.  • Ensure proper Change Management documentation.  • Provide ONCOR senior management with daily status reports of on-going issues.  • Ensured systems met within established corporate anti-virus, back-up and OS patch standards. Systems Engineer ONCOR - Dallas, TX 2005 to 2008 • Perform system administration on Compaq and IBM servers.  • Provide HA (24/7) system support, including various stand-alone, virtual and clustered systems.  • Provide system support to application maintenance and application development teams.  • Responsible for implementing disaster recovery (DR) exercises.  • Responsible for the configuration and deployment of Windows 2003 servers.  • Responsible for the decommissioning of off lease servers.  • Ensured necessary backup, monitoring, anti-virus & system configuration was completed prior to it going into production.  • Ensure changes were correctly documented in Remedy Change Management.  • Coordinate with project team on the implementation of various changes to our environment. Senior Critical Support Technician TXU Electric - Dallas-Fort Worth, TX 2001 to 2005 • Desktop team lead for a staff of four.  • Executive technical support for CEO and all Senior Executives of Fortune 500 company.  • Recommended and implemented printing solution saving the company over $30,000 a quarter.  • Project technical client support for migration from a Windows 2000 environment to Windows XP.  • Technical lead overseeing migration of 200-client move, which included all Senior Executives.  • Maintained 1-hour response times & complete resolution within 4 hours in a demanding high stress Energy Trade Floor.  • Implemented and maintained disaster recovery hardware/software for key Traders.  • Implemented urgent new application patches released from third party venders.  • Identified, tracked and replaced off lease equipment. Contract Consultant Self employed - Dallas, TX 2000 to 2001 • Contracted with local small business to optimize IT investments.  • Troubleshoot and resolved computer hardware/software issues, on-site or by remote connectivity.  • Designed, Implemented and maintained business systems such as email, file and print servers. Application Administrator / Analyst Southwest Airlines, Love Field - Dallas, TX 1997 to 2000 • Participated in the development, testing and implementation of several customized IS projects to enhance Southwest's operational efficiency.  • Project Lead on company inventory of each Pilot Base computing systems, upgraded hardware on existing systems or replaced where cost effective to new corporate desktop standards.  • Coordinated with various departments within the company and the FAA in gathering information for reports concerning operational, personnel and passenger issues.  • Managed Southwest Airlines Intern Program for Flight Operations, including recruitment, interviews & daily assignments. Education Bachelor of Science in Aviation Sciences in Aviation Sciences Oklahoma State University - Stillwater, OK Skills System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses MCSE March 2007 to Present