Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - MERSCORP Holdings, Inc Reston, VA Work Experience Systems Administrator MERSCORP Holdings, Inc - Reston, VA 2014 to Present Supported 90+ local employees and 40+ vendor employees with access to the corporate network resources  ? Created, Maintained and Monitored 70+ VMs for testing and production environments.  ? Created DNS entries, Host records and modify as needed or as requested by internal Developer Team.  ? Utilized Microsoft Active Directory to manage and maintain User Accounts, Group Policy, Departmental\User rights and controls.  ? Automated and monitored the corporate backups using Code42 and Evault cloud backup solutions.  ? Proficient with Microsoft Server OS (W2k3, W2k8R2, and W2k12R2)  ? Rebuilt and Maintained Data Center Network infrastructure including UPS Battery backup, Servers, Switches and Routers.  ? Managed Systems Imaging Deployment using Quest KACE.  ? Managed Company's MDM solution (IBM MaaS360) and issued mobile devices (iOS\Android) to employees.  ? Performed monthly security patches for over 60 servers using WSUS and KACE.  ? Managed externally hosted Microsoft Exchange email environment through BAE Systems Cloud Solutions.  ? Managed Corporate telephony systems (ShoreTel) and users configurations  ? Monitored security controls in a highly regulated environment (Dual factor authentication via biometrics and RSA tokens, Hardware Encryption via self-encrypting SSD drives, Continuous Backups via Code42's CrashPlan, Business Continuity Plan/Tests, Encrypted Emails and DLP via ZixMail, Port/Media Restrictions and AI driven Antivirus/Antimalware via Cylance, and Insider Threat monitoring via Securonix)  ? Assisted in the transition of all IT systems to Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) as part of an acquisition Senior Information Technology Technician Agustawestland - Reston, VA 2012 to 2014 Provided hardware and software support for 100 employees.  ? Maintained Microsoft Active Directory service, Security Patches, Exchange Email, IP printing, Access privileges, server security, File permissions, Laser printers, remote access, VPN and others connectivity issues.  ? Upgraded systems, servers and appliances.  ? Created and maintained a devices and parts inventory for emergency repairs.  ? Weekly travel to company branches to help with any IT related issues.  ? Maintained daily backups using Unitrends backup appliance. Network Admin University of the Sciences - Philadelphia, PA 2005 to 2012 Deployed and managed Nortel switches  ? Deployed and managed Exchange 2007/2010 mail servers  ? Provided central managing system to allow: automatic desktop software deployment, network resource sharing, IP printing, and Group Policy  ? Daily configuration of Barracuda systems to prevent spam and email attacks  ? Utilized Kaseya Management system to monitor the network  ? Responsible for disaster recovery of servers using Acronis software  ? Coordinated with technology vendors and maintained records of facilitated purchases Education Chubb institute - Springfield, PA 2004 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Exchange Server (10+ years), backup (10+ years), two factor authentication (10+ years), Access Control (10+ years)