Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Brooklyn, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Metroplus Health Plan - New York, NY September 2018 to Present I received the opportunity to work in a different area of the company, as System Administrator I receive, verify, create and modify accounts for the 3M Providers System, in addition I have been developing tools for my Unit based on VBA Excel to improve our workflow. Network Relations Representative Metroplus Health Plan - New York, NY February 2018 to August 2018 Working as Network Relations Representative at Metroplus it was a great experience, I had the opportunity to help members inquiries related with Health Insurance Policies, Claims and Change or Primary Doctor and requesting Members Cards. Customer Service Representative/Call Center NEW YORK STATE OF HEALTH MARKETPLACE - New York, NY January 2017 to January 2018 During my time working at NYSOH I got experience with Health Insurance policies and regulations for the State of New York, I was helping New Yorkers with account creations and modifications relating with eligibility issues. Cashier Sears - Brooklyn, NY April 2016 to November 2016 Helping people with the checkout process and with general customer service inquiries in addition Helping with online orders. During my period working on Sears I improved my customer service skills and I created great relations with my coworkers establishing friendship and partnership, allowing us reaching our goal. Support Staff Talent Acquisition Team September 2015 to February 2016 503 2255 - 3700  Responsibilities:  • Create and implement new reports based on needs of Talent Acquisition Team in San Salvador.  • Create and implement new reports based on needs of Talent Acquisition Team in Managua.  • Maintenance of all Data Bases for Talent Acquisition Team in San Salvador and Managua.  • Control and Maintenance of the Data Base and Tracker for the Employee Referral Program for San Salvador and Managua.  • Control and Maintenance of Net Throughput File.  • Provide assistance to Talent Sourcing with Reports and others  • Coordinate reports of Talent Acquisition an Sourcing for the Senior Operations Manager Meeting Senior - Customer Support Associate Convergys El Salvador / Dell Account May 2011 to September 2015 503 2255 - 3700  Responsibilities:  • Create and implements reports in Excel for Dell (Metrics and bonuses)  • Maintenance of Previous and new reports  • Provide Assistance to SPs  • To Take escalations  • Direct interaction with the Client for escalated cases Video Monitoring Representative Convergys El Salvador July 2010 to May 2011 503 2255 - 3700  Responsibilities:  • Verify that all employees comply with the Private Customer Information Policy; not saving customer information or using it for fraud.  • Provide Daily reports to Site Director Systems Auditor National Institute of Pensions for Government Employees July 2004 to September 2009 503 2247-9700  Responsibilities:  • To execute Special Test for all the automatized Systems of the Institute.  • Provide opinion and recommendations to implement changes based in the Law and International regulations.  • To execute the Annual Work Plan in the Technology Segment. Typist October 2001 to July 2004 503 2244-2700  Responsibilities:  • Receive, authorize and complete information for the National Data Base of Institutions that work with Senior Citizens.  • Provide assistance to IT Education Liceo Stanford 1993 to 1995 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Engineering Universidad Tecnologica de El Salvador Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Data Analysis (5 years), SQL, Business Intelligence, access, Powerpoint, Excel, MS Office, testing, Visio, VBA (5 years), Macros (5 years), Pivot Tables (6 years), Reporting (5 years) Awards Site Director Award 2014-12 This is the highest award for leadership qualities was given to me for create a development program for the company I previously worked. Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rmsqysiqsmnk1xxr Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bhwpet42ar6wndti Email — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/b8c6ceri0bddxgfh Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills    Personal Mastery  Time Management    Communication Skills  Leadership and Management    PC Knowledge    • Microsoft Office Suite - Advanced  • Microsoft Power Business Intelligence - Intermediate  • Microsoft Access - Advanced  • SQL - Intermediate  • Java - Basic  • Taleo - Intermediate  • Workday - Basic  • Photoshop - Intermediate