Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Magnolia, TX Technically sophisticated networking professional with solid history of network development, deployment and support for both onsite and remote office locations. Broad knowledge and success in an information technology environment; proficient in repair and maintenance of desktops, laptops, servers and networking equipment. Exceptional interpersonal skills with ability to effectively communicate technical information to non-technical staff. Adept at streamlining existing processes to optimize performance, minimize completion times and reduce costs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Intellicure, Inc. - The Woodlands, TX August 2014 to Present As the Systems Administrator for a growing Electronic Medical Records software company, my position encompasses more than the typical role. Our company specializes in EHR/EMR Software for non-critical wound care facilities across the country. My role within the company includes systems security, data center & facility operations, along with many other areas.    Key Achievements and Responsibilities:  *Facilitated corporate office relocation to a new facility which features an on-site data center.  *Relocated our Data Center operations from a 3rd Party Co-Location facility to our own on-site data center.  *Maintain Business to Business VPN Tunnels with our clients to provide secure interfacing to our systems.  *Maintain a Microsoft Remote Desktop Hosting environment for our application.   *Maintain all application, database, file storage servers, and network infrastructure to support a hosting environment with more than 1,000+ Remote Desktop Sessions per day.  *Maintain our facility systems which include video cameras, electronically controlled access doors, alarm systems, lighting and HVAC Systems.  *Building our our next generation hosting environment in a cloud solution to improve availability and exceed durability requirements of our operations. Systems Administrator Parkway Chevrolet, Mazda, Kia, and Insurance, Tomball - Tomball, TX August 2011 to August 2014 As the Systems Administrator for a growing automotive dealer group my duties included a plethora of different technologies. Serving four physical locations with 20 servers, 160 workstations, 15 laptops, over 100 mobile devices, and 180 employees. Working directly with end users to better identify their technology needs and provide timely solutions. Drastically reduced telecommunications expenses through dedicated work with telecom vendors to install and upgrade connectivity at the dealerships.    Key Achievements:  * Implemented Telecommunications service changes which have reduced expenditures by over $35,000 per year while increasing services provided.  * Implemented managed print services contract to provide substantial cost savings by utilizing more efficient toner supplies and identifying under or over utilized printing devices.  * Implemented single point of entry to the corporate network ensuring a more secure network.  * Designed and successfully installed multisite VoIP Phone System.  * Stabilized network infrastructure to improve overall uptime from 90% to 99.9%.  * Designed and Installed network based Video Surveillance system at key locations. Special Projects Administrator Associa - Dallas, TX October 2007 to August 2011 Working with IT department, orchestrated technical support for office relocations and deployments to regional offices. Provided critical technical interface to on-site employees, providing them with clear communication regarding and ongoing support for changes. Assembled, tested, deployed and maintained 120+ field servers, and supported network switches, routers and cabling. Performed server, desktop and laptop repairs as required. Generated weekly status reports to management on project progress, and worked collaboratively with all involved work teams to ensure timely completion.    Key Achievements:  * Implemented print cost recovery software that increased monthly billing from $1,500 to $3,500 per month.  * Optimized monthly billing processes by redesigning reporting procedures.  * Championed successful start up of company's first data center project.  * Spearheaded migration of offices to company's national network.  * Deployed new service desk management system that improved response time to users. Regional Network Administrator Associa, Dallas 2005 to 2007 As part of a six-person team, serviced 40% of company infrastructure as well as the data center. Supported 250+ workstations, 15 regional servers and 30 data center servers to ensure optimal uptime of critical business applications. Led deployment of Symantec, Sophos and AVG antivirus technologies, and developed / deployed point-to-point firewall system. Worked directly with end users in person, via e-mail and on the phone to quickly and effectively resolve problems, and tracked user issues and trends. Analyzed hardware aging reports, and outlined annual budgetary requirement to management.  Key Achievements:  * Spearheaded implementation of centralized anti-virus software (Symantec & Sophos).  * Developed keyed source documents and a compilation / reporting engine that effectively streamlined monthly association billing process.  * Successfully led migration team on first round of network conversions.  * Earned company's Individual Achievement Award three times. IT Lead & Distribution Center Clerk Associa - Houston, TX 2004 to 2005 Supported in-house computers and file servers while also managing production projects for distribution center. Collaborated with office staff to facilitate design, duplication, binding and distribution of reports and publications, prioritizing projects to ensure all projects were completed in accordance with predetermined deadlines. Supported monthly billing by producing billing logs for copiers, postage and supplies.    Key Achievements:  * As first employee of this department, created and implemented numerous work processes still in use today.  * Improved distribution turnaround times by procuring faster production equipment.  * Played an integral role in streamlining monthly billing processes. Field Service Technician COMPUSA, INC - Sugar Land, TX 2001 to 2004 Based in one of CompUSA's retail locations, provided technical assistance to customers on a wide range of issues. Facilitated computer repairs, offered advice on hardware / software upgrades and sold ancillary products and services to customers.    Key Achievements:  * Provided highly-effective solutions at the lowest cost possible by researching best practices and applying diverse technical knowledge and abilities.  * Earned Customer Service Excellence Award 26 times during three years of employment. Education General Studies University Of Houston Downtown - Houston, TX Skills Windows Desktop Operating Systems (10+ years), Windows Server Operating Systems (10+ years), Mac OSx (6 years), Linux (6 years), Cisco ASA Firewalls (5 years), Cisco Network Equipment (10+ years), Structured Network Wiring (10+ years), Polycom Video Bridge Hardware (10+ years), A/V Presentation Equipment (10+ years), NEC, Nortel, FreePBX, Avaya, & Cisco Phone Equipment (10+ years), Microsoft Azure (1 year), Amazon AWS (1 year), Microsoft Office 365 (6 years), Microsoft Office 365 Phone System (Skype for Business Online, and formerly known as Lync) (Less than 1 year), SonicWALL Suite of Network Security, Data Protection, and Wireless Products (6 years), Ubiquiti Enterprise Wireless (6 years), Ubiquiti Video Systems (6 years), Ubiquiti Carrier Class Products (6 years), Fortinet Fortigate Firewalls (1 year), Network Security Testing Software (6 years), System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses Dell SonicWALL Certified SonicWALL Administrator November 2013 to November 2014 Dell SonicWALL Certified SonicWALL Professional December 2013 to December 2014 Additional Information Areas of Expertise:  • Network Design, Deployment & Maintenance  • Server Hardware Administration  • Hands-on & Remote Desktop Support  • Network Based Surveillance Systems  • Security Applications & Appliances  • Troubleshooting & Problem Resolution  • End-user Training & Support  • VoIP Telecommunications