Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Sacramento Network Solutions Fair Oaks, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Sacramento Network Solutions - Sacramento, CA June 2019 to Present Network Solutions is a Network Management Company that maintains the networks for Food Banks and Catholic Schools. I'm responsible for tasks ranging from user creation to building virtualized servers using VMWare ESXi. I also have installed and configured various routers, including setting up VPN connections and connection rules. I respond to any install/move/change requests by our various customers. I monitor Backup and Anti-Virus Solutions. These networks a primarily Windows-based networks utilizing Server 2008 and 2012, Office365, numerous brands of routers and switches, and varied Printer/MFD products. Network Administrator Sefnco Communications - Sacramento, CA September 2017 to September 2018 While at Sefnco, I administered Windows servers both physical and virtualized on a Hyper-V cluster, with storage served up via iSCSI. These were running Windows 2012R2 and 2008R2 deployments. I maintained remote access through Windows Terminal Services/Remote Desktop. I managed tickets escalated from Help Desk. The WAN was run with Sonicwall NSA products. I deployed them, made changes and performed Firmware Upgrades where necessary. I deployed and maintained the wireless access using ASUS access points.  My projects there included deploying a new VPN solution using a Mikrotik Router, and deploying a new Workstation Imaging Solution using Open Source, notably Ubuntu and The Fog Project. Network Administrator Pineapple Hospitality - Bellevue, WA February 2016 to September 2017 Pineapple Hospitality owns a number of Boutique Hotels nation-wide. I deployed and maintained Windows servers running 2012R2 and 2008R2 virtualized on XenServer in clusters. The storage for these servers was deployed using an Open Source O/S called FreeNAS, utilizing its ZVOL and RAID features. I also helped to deploy property-wide wireless solutions at their hotels using Unifi hardware. I gained some familiarity with Citrix products here, most notably Citrix Desktop, as our Front Desk agents were served using Thin Clients in all of the hotels. The WAN was built with Mikrotik products, and I earned my certification in them. Systems Administrator Matraex Inc - Boise, ID January 2015 to May 2015 At Matraex, I worked on Open Source servers almost exclusively. These used Debian and Ubuntu. I was moving applications such as Postfix, and LAMP to new hardware and the latest releases of Operating Systems and deploying them in their Data Center and Colo. Owner/Manager/ Systems Engineer Pinnacle Computer Services - Kent, WA January 1998 to October 2014 Pinnacle was my own company, which I managed for 16 years. I offered the sale, deployment and administration of everything network-related throughout the Western Washington area. My core customers were Community Banks, and over the years I had various Medical and Commercial accounts that I maintained. My most notable accomplishments were a handful of Bank Startups that I was fortunate enough to take part in. These were ground-up deployments, and I provided all of the required hardware and software, coordinated with vendors, and set up the networks, including the industry-specific applications required. Member of the Board of Directors Transport Federal Credit Union April 2008 to December 2009 Field Engineer II Advanced Network Solutions - Bellevue, WA July 1996 to January 1998 Field Engineer II Micro Computer Services - Kirkland, WA June 1990 to July 1996 Field Engineer I Fiserv Inc - Bellevue, WA May 1984 to June 1990 Education Certificate Clover Park Technical Institute - Lakewood, WA 1984 Diploma Curtis High School - University Place, WA 1980 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, Linux Administrator, Linux, Active Directory Additional Information Technical Skills  • Microsoft Desktops dating from MS-DOS including all versions of Windows up to Windows 10.  • All versions of MS-Office up to 2016 and Office365.  • Network Operating Systems: Microsoft from NT 4.0 to 2012R2, Novell Netware/OES, Ubuntu and SUSE Linux.  • Systems virtualized on Hyper-V, VMWare and XenServer utilizing shared storage.  • Citrix-based Applications, XenDesktop, Netscaler, etc.  • Router Configuration, Namely Mikrotik Routers. (MTCNA Certification)  • Sonicwall NSA Firewalls and ESA Email security appliances  • Design, install and monitor property-wide wireless systems.  • Monitoring/Management packages such as Nagios.  • Backup solutions utilizing tape and NAS.  • Power conditioning utilizing battery backup  • Numerous Industry-Specific and COTS applications.  • Email Systems based on Exchange, Groupwise, and Postfix.  • Security solutions including anti-virus, anti-malware and intrusion detection packages.  • Hardware platforms, utilizing many different storage solutions and protocols.  • Many different peripherals, including Network Printing solutions.  • TCP/IP Stack and related protocols.