Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> East Elmhurst, NY To contribute to an organization that can use a highly motivated young professional with knowledge of computer operations and computer network systems along with exceptional problem-solving ability, a strong programming background, communication skills, and fast learning capabilities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Esperanza Center - New York, NY June 2006 to Present New York, NY June 2006 - Current  • Designed and configured the entire network for the company. Installed and configured Windows Servers. Created the domain, joined clients to it and assign rights / setup permissions.  • Configured CISCO router (IP, DNS, DHCP, Port forwarding, etc.)  • Connected/troubleshoot switches, routers and verify proper connections with ISP's circuits and modems. Performed tests to verify functionality of the network. Installed hand scanners for ADP payroll purposes locally and remotely. Linked the hand scanners from the remote locations to the accounting system in the central office. Installed and • Implemented a DVR camera security system for the whole company, including the setup to view the cameras from a remote location.  • Supported /configured/troubleshoot all the software/hardware.  • Created the company's website using HTML & CSS - Dreamweaver.  • Installed/implemented/maintained Symantec Enterprise Antivirus software for the whole company  • Setup WIFI solution for the company with access points, repeaters, etc.  • In charged of the whole telephone/communications systems including troubleshooting and programming of Nortel phones, First Line Support Technician (Consultant) IT Network Consultants, Inc. (Diebold) - Northport, NY June 2003 to 2011 Performed maintenance on every service call - card readers, printers, monitors, sensors, etc. Troubleshoot any hardware / software problem with the ATM. Tested connectivity between ATM and network. Documented and informed the client / duty manager of ATM status. Software Developer Online Retail Partners - New York, NY July 2000 to March 2001 Leaded designer on an upgrade project for data warehouse software. Interacted directly with the client and participated in different design discussions. Created scripts to automate the different procedures involved with the database's loading procedure. Created scripts to produce reports showing the status of different aspects of the e-commerce system in the company. All of the software developments were done using Java and Oracle. Application Developer First Rehabilitation Life Insurance Company February 1998 to June 2000 Created applications for each department of the firm using Informix SQL. Developed a program that converts numerical values into text for check processing. Designed an ESQL/C program that tracks client's claims and personal data. Education MS in Computer Science City College May 2010 Network Engineering Power Course Micro Power Computer Institute August 2003 BA in Computer Science Queens College February 1999 Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ovhdmy7wb1kzs5em Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Computer Skills    Languages: HTML, CSS, OpenGL, JAVA, C++, C, SQL, ESQL/C, Pascal, Assembly, Visual Basic and PERL, UNIX scripting.  Systems: UNIX HP, INFORMIX-SQL, ORACLE, IBM-PC (DOS)  Software: Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Office Suite 03-07-10-13, WordPerfect, Lotus 1-2-3, Symantec AV Enterprise 8.0 to12.0  OS: Work Station: Microsoft Windows XP, 7, LINUX (Ubuntu), OS X Snow Leopard, MS-DOS, OS2  Server: MS 2003, 2012, Domain controllers.  Protocols: TCP/IP, SNMP, IPX/SPX, AppleTalk.