Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Tucson, AZ Andrew is a highly experienced IT administrator with over 13 years of experience in hardware, software, system administration, and software support and configuration.    Andrew began his career in the U.S. Marine Corps and worked diligently to learn and support IT environments in nearly every aspect; from troubleshooting complex problems to knowledge and support of multiple systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS - Tucson, AZ March 2019 to Present • Successfully implemented and maintained:  ? Unix, Linux, and Windows-based servers (both physical and virtual)  ? Multi-site Microsoft Active Directory environment  ? Data center server hardware  ? Backup and disaster recovery solutions  ? Office 365/Exchange email systems  ? Remote Desktop environments/Remote App/Portal Access/Dictation/ Citrix  ? Automation strategies via Powershell  • Administrator of system management/deployment appliances  • Experienced with change control processes and methodologies  • Tasked with multiple project management opportunities that were above current skill level - all completed without issue APPLICATION ANALYST ARIZONA COMMUNITY PHYSICIANS December 2018 to February 2019 • Troubleshooting complex issues across multiple applications  • Customized applications for the organization  • Created documentation for technical staff  • Gap analysis of the application and workflow for efficiency  • Printer lead for organization on both Windows and EHR application  • Helpdesk ticket completion averaging 50 tickets per week  • Customer Service excellence for all levels of staff across the organization  • Mentoring coworkers on complex build and analysis  • Project management of revenue-based implementations to meet MIPS/MU criteria  • Led first successful EHR upgrade in the history of ACP  • Led testing strategies for EHR upgrade  • Multiple fixes to high profile issues (RxRenewals, Printing, iLearn functionality, clinical note documentation, reports, etc)  • HL-7 proficient SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR ARIZONA COMMUNITY PHYSICIANS December 2017 to December 2018 • Successfully implemented and maintained:  ? Unix, Linux, and Windows-based servers (both physical and virtual)  ? Multi-site Microsoft Active Directory environment  ? Data center server hardware  ? Backup and disaster recovery solutions  ? Office 365/Exchange email systems  ? Remote Desktop environments/Remote App/Portal Access/Dictation  ? Automation strategies via Powershell  • Administrator of system management/deployment appliances  • Experienced with change control processes and methodologies  • Tasked with multiple project management opportunities that were above current skill level - all completed without issue SYSTEMS SPECIALIST - TEAM LEAD ARIZONA COMMUNITY PHYSICIANS October 2015 to December 2017 • Functioned as the lead of Help Desk for the organization  • Worked with System Administrators to implement new group policies and efficient work strategies  • Deployed new workstations, printers, and software  • Create and maintain inventory of computers, supplies and licensing for 50+ individual sites  • Customer Service excellence across 50+ individual sites  • Patch management TACTICAL AIR OPERATIONS MODULE TECHNICIAN U.S. MARINE CORPS September 2005 to February 2014 • Achieved the Rank of Staff Sergeant (SSgt)  • Two tours in Afghanistan  • Two Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medals for outstanding performance and leadership  • Leadership skills: Provided guidance, mentoring and instruction to personnel of different levels of aptitude  • Technical Skills: System and Application Administration of both Unix and Windows systems in a complex mesh network  • Interpersonal Skills: communication across multiple levels of personnel both written and oral Education High school in generals Rincon High School - Tucson, AZ Skills Application Support, Production Support, System Analyst Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Staff Sergeant