Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - COMM Hope Mills, NC Work Experience Systems Administrator COMM May 2019 to Present SA) planning and coordinating the installation, testing, operation, troubleshooting, and maintenance of hardware and software systems in support of Cyber Support Branch, located on Fort Belvoir VA. Recommends hardware and software replacements or upgrades to meet current and future cyber requirements. Applies new developments and solutions to complex cyber threats. Plans and conducts complex hardware failure, software functionality, communications and cyber-attack simulations to determine capacity requirements for the Army Cyber mission. Advises IT experts throughout Tobyhanna Depot or in other agencies on a variety of situations and issues that involve applying or adapting new IT theories, concepts, principles, standards, methods, or practices. Implements IT security procedures and tools. Plans and carries out difficult and complex assignments to lead studies to identify improvements in the way IT architecture is applied to key business functions. Develops and documents systems administration standard operating procedures. Resolves hardware/software interface and interoperability problems. Performs needs analyses to define opportunities for new or improved IT solutions to emerging cyber threats. Consults with customers to identify and specify IT requirements. Develops overall functional and systems requirements and specifications. Conducts process reengineering. Conducts feasibility studies and trade-off analyses. Prepares new hardware, software and business practices for the application of IT solutions. Defines systems scope and objectives. Develops cost estimates for new and modified IT systems. Ensures the integration of all systems components, e.g., procedures, databases, policies, software, and hardware. Plans systems implementation; and ensures the rigorous application of information security/information assurance policies, principles, and practices to the systems analysis process. Serves as a consultant, providing personnel and project teams with software engineering and project management support to meet established DOD, Army and organizational standards. Interacts with product management, project management and development teams to develop a strong understanding of the project and testing objectives. Manage and prioritize multiple, diverse projects simultaneously. Document, track and escalate issues as appropriate Furnishes expert technical advice and recommendations on major problem areas in assigned fields of specialization. Ensures reliability, maintainability, interoperability, and configuration integrity of IT projects. Develops templates, reports, checklists, and analysis tools.    Job Title: Information Technology Specialist, GS-13  Hours per week: 40 Plans, Programs and Project Officer US Army Central Command - Shaw AFB, SC December 2017 to May 2019 Shaw Air Force Base, South Carolina, 29152  Supervisor: Major Kelly Sunderland  COMM: 803-885-8623  Start and Ending Dates: 11 December 2017 to 24 May 2019    DUTIES: Assigned as Plans, Programs and Project Officer (PPP) and Cyber Security and Information Assurance (IA) Lead for US Army Central Command (ARCENT) G6. Plans, coordinates, schedules and conducts activities within the G6 PPP Division. Conducts significant reviews and analyses of current operational procedures. Provides recommendations and advice to superiors on ways to improve training and staff management methodologies. Provides advice and recommendations to the G6 workforce on all matters relative to the coordination, integration, and synchronization of staff actions, events and activities personally affecting and involving the organization. Initiates, expands and maintains contacts with CIO G6, USCENTCOM, ARCYBER, USARCENT staff elements, and subordinate commands. Plans, manages, executes, and evaluates special programs and projects. Advises the PPP Officer and other management on ongoing operational matters. Represents G6 PPP at committees, panels, symposiums, meetings and briefings with higher, lateral, and lower echelons and presents administrative considerations, speaks for the Directorate in clarifying administrative matters, explains Directorate views or implications of pending problems and programs. Serves as a Contractor Officer Representative (COR), responsible for reviewing and evaluating all contractor work progress and providing expertise in negotiating technical aspects of USARCENT contracts. Provides status reports on projects assigned (progress, issues, and trends) to leadership. Serves as one of several PPP's of Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service (eMASS) personnel. Additionally serves as the G6 PPP Trusted Agent (TA) responsible for vetting and inputting data required for ID cards to contractor personnel working for ARCENT. Serves as responsible person for the Automated Time Attendance and Production System (ATAAPS) approving leave and pay for all G6 civilian personnel. Participates as a team member for USARCENT's DoD Mission Assurance Assessment (MAA) inspections as required by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA). This team inspects USARCENT Assets in the South West Asia (SWA) Area of Operations in the areas from Engineering to Communications and Network Infrastructure. Additional duty as the USARCENT G6 Organizational Inspection Program (OIP) representative, inspecting USARCENT units, to conduct Command and Staff Assistance Visits on Information's Assurance.    Job Title: Information Technology Specialist, GS-12  Hours per week: 40  Defense Logistics Agency  Information Operations Europe SWA & Africa  Disposition Services - Kuwait  APO, AE 09112  Supervisor: Anthony Pink IT Specialist subordinate to Defense Logistics Agency COMM March 2016 to December 2017 DLA) Information Operations Europe South West Asia (SWA) & Africa J-63 office in Kaiserslautern Germany. Provides and maintains computer support to DLA's Disposition Services office in Kuwait. Sets up and configures all computer and printer equipment with in the DLA compound. Works with Regional DLA Network Support Administrators located in Germany and the local Network Administrators in Kuwait to make sure network connectivity within the DLA Compound is available at all times. Additional duty as Telephone Control Officer (TCO) responsible for mobile phone and iPhone support to all DLA personnel assigned to Kuwait.    Job Title: Information Technology Specialist, GS-12  Hours per week: 40  US Army Sustainment Command (ASC)  Army Field Support Battalion - Germany  405 Army Field Support Brigade  APO, AE 09112  Supervisor: Raymond S. Eden Senior IT Specialist in the Battalion S-6 office COMM March 2015 to March 2016 Provides IT support through the Battalion, and advisory services to Battalion Command Group and subordinate units, Information Assurance, planning, coordination, modification, implementation, IT life cycle management, and troubleshooting to support the Battalion's IT mission requirements.  Manages and administers the Information Assurance and Information Management programs for the Battalion. Evaluates new or changed software to determine how it would support current and planned networking and communications systems and projects, considers problems of compatibility, process ease and speed, and any known technological trends or developments.  Coordinates all work efforts involved with the Automated Information System (AIS) staff and interprets policies and regulations of the DoD, HQ, DA; AMC, ASC, Army Field Support Brigade, and Network Enterprise Center (NEC) and communicates these functional requirements to the staff.    Job Title: Information Technology Specialist, GS-12  Hours per week: 40  US Army Sustainment Command (ASC)  402 Army Field Support Brigade, AFSB Battalion - Qatar  APO, AE 09898  Supervisor: Major Rochelle Ruiz Senior IT Specialist COMM March 2014 to March 2015 S-6) on the Army Field Support Battalion - Qatar (AFSBn-QA) on the Commanders Staff. Responsible for planning, installation, maintenance and the training Battalion personnel on new IT systems. Involved in the day to day Systems Administration processes within the Battalion. In addition manages and administers the Information Assurance and Information Management programs for the Battalion. Provides a variety of IT services and advice to the Battalion command staff and subordinate elements. Ensures customers system configurations and automation plans are fully compatible with overall communications and networking initiatives within the supported activities. Develops security countermeasures necessary to protect sensitive and classified information processed on Battalion Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPR) computer equipment. Provides guidance and support for the protection of IT systems and local area networks. Sets up and administrates Battalion Polycom Video Teleconferencing (VTC) equipment and Cisco Voice Over IP (VOIP) phone configurations. Analyzes hardware and software functions, troubleshooting hardware and software problems and implementing changes. Diagnoses system failures to isolate the source of the problems between equipment and system software. Also ensures Secure Technology Implementation Guides (STIGs) are implemented throughout organizational servers. Provides IT contractors and IT services oversight as a Contract Officers Representative (COR) for the Army Prepositioned Stock - 5 (APS-5) contract. Administrates AFSBn-Qatar's ASC Share Point Portal to include updating and giving organization members access and rights to upload data. Updates Information Technology Service Management/REMEDY (ITSM) to review, analyze, evaluate and oversee organizational IT processes that were inputted into the database.    Job Title: Information Technology Specialist, DE-2210-03 (GS-13 Equivalent)  Hours per week: 40  Communications Electronic Command (CECOM)  Software Engineering Command (SEC-Lee),  Tactical Logistics Directorate, Fort Lee, VA, 23801  Supervisor: Robert Nash, Hardware Information Systems Branch Information Technology Specialist COMM January 2013 to March 2014 providing support to the Logistics Federated Net-Centric Site (Log FaNS) supporting SEC-Lee's STAMIS software testing requirements. Serves as a government technical expert in regards to all matters dealing with information technology including but not limited to facility access control, Access card issue, telephone/computer equipment tracking and placement, hardware (HW) analysis, HW documentation/return documentation. Provides technical support in resolving issues supporting customer queries. Provides technical support in analyzing, monitoring and validating statistical analysis of network and hardware resource utilization. Provides technical support to fix known software anomalies/bugs and utilizes software to track software anomalies or bugs. Utilizes the Joint Tool Suite (JTS) as a network monitoring software to evaluate network usage, bandwith, tracking, testing configuring, analyzing, monitoring and validating statistical analysis of network and hardware resources tested in the Log FaNS facility.  Job Title: Information Technology Specialist, DE-2210-03 (GS-13 Equivalent)  Hours per week: 40  Communications Electronic Command (CECOM)  Software Engineering Command (SEC-Lee)  Bridging Information Systems Division,  Tactical Logistics Directorate, Fort Lee, VA, 23801  Supervisor: Valerie Poarch-Harding, Branch Chief, Bridging Information Systems Division Property Book Unit Supply Enhanced (PBUSE), Fielding Team member/Government Technical Lead COMM January 2012 to January 2013 804) 734-1171  Start and Ending Dates: 02 Jan 2012 to 21 Jan 2013    DUTIES: Property Book Unit Supply Enhanced (PBUSE), Fielding Team member/Government Technical Lead. Responsible for all matters dealing with the PBUSE Oracle Servers including but not limited to up/downtime, tracking and notifications, server metrics, hardware maintenance, HW End-Of Service Life/End-Of-Service Life tracking and technical support for maintenance contracts and funding actions, software licensing and technical support for software licensing contracts and funding actions, security, patching, configuration management of the source code, accreditation of the servers STIG compliance, administrative rights and password control. Additionally I provide technical support in analyzing, monitoring and validating the scheduled contractor's deliverables and technical support to testing and the fielding of PBUSE.    Job Title: Supervisory, IT Specialist, GS-13  Hours per week: 40  Army Material Command, 402nd Army Field Support Brigade (AFSB), Camp Arifjan,  Kuwait, APO, AE 09366  Supervisor: COL John Laskodi, Commander 402 AFSB, (309) 644-7683 IT Advisor Brigade S6 for the 402nd AFSB January 2011 to December 2011 Commander. I managed the entire 402nd AFSB automation, communications, visual information, records management, printing and publishing, and libraries, including programmatic knowledge, as well as technical knowledge of standards, policies, and procedures. I was directly responsible for providing, obtaining, managing, and/or reviewing a wide variety of actions related to the overall unit automation, information management, and communications programs to include being the Information's Assurance Manger (IAM) for the 402 AFSB. I provided WAN and LAN management support to operational and mission support to users on different WANs and LANs with worldwide coverage. I was also supervised 3 Army Civilian IT Specialists and 4 Contractor Helpdesk desktop support technicians who provided user support to include user training and setting up user network accounts. They also base lined computers, added computers to the network and repaired unit computers. My additional responsibilities included management of the Multi Media Communications System (MMCS) network with Voice Over IP (VOIP) and SIPR Network and computers in the Command Section and SIPR Café within Building 752. I was responsible for implementation/setup of all 402nd AFSB Communications within the trailers setup at the Redistribution Property Accountability Team (RPAT) yard, at Camp Virginia, Kuwait supporting the withdrawal of equipment from Iraq.    Job Title: Information Technology Specialist, GS-12  Hours per week: 40  Army Material Command, 3-401st Army Field Support Brigade, Bagram, Air Field,  Afghanistan, APO, AE 09354  Supervisor: Richard Williams, Battalion Deputy, DSN: (312) 987-5130 Opt 1, x 6009 Sr. Network/ Systems Administrator 3rd Battalion October 2010 to January 2011 manages 401st 3rd Battalion computers, Multi Media Communications System (MMCS) network, South West Asia (SWA) network and ,SIPR network. Issues REMEDY, trouble tickets for battalion computer problems and office Voice Over IP (VIOP) telephone installations. I am also the unit Point of Contact for 401st AFSB, Standard Army Management Information Systems (STAMIS) systems and Combat Service Support Automated Information System Interface (CAISI) systems.    Job Title: Information Technology Specialist, DE-2210-03 (GS-13 Equivalent)  Hours per week: 40  Communications-Electronics Command, Software Engineering Center (CECOM-SECB), Army Material Command, Fort Belvoir, VA, 22060  Supervisor: Charles Williams, Chief, Enterprise Solutions Directorate/Deployment Branch (ESD) Fielding Team member COMM - Fort Lee, VA July 2009 to September 2010 As a member of the SAMS-E Fielding Team, I am responsible for supervision and over site of contractors deploying and training SAMS-E equipment, delivery and installation of servers and laptop computers worldwide. I am also responsible for issuing equipment to Army sites where units need a complete handoff of equipment via hand receipt to for proper accountability. I assist the Fielding Team Lead in scheduling training and fielding's. I also assist in Site Surveys and conduct inventory reviews. Approximately 14,000 Standard Army Management Information Systems (STAMIS) systems Army wide are forecasted to be converted to SAMS-E.    Job Title: Information Technology Specialist, DE-2210-03 (GS-13 Equivalent)  Hours per week: 40  Communications-Electronics Command, Software Engineering Center (CECOM-SECB), Army Material Command, Fort Belvoir, VA, 22060  Supervisor: Clyde Tyler, Chief, Enterprise Systems Deployment Branch (ESDB) Project Officer COMM - Fort Lee, VA September 2008 to July 2009 Primary duty location is in South West Asia (Kuwait and Iraq). Supervised contractors, managed equipment, delivery and installation of deployed MTS communications equipment. Send reports to PM on any problems and mission deficiencies that may arise. Does monthly installation site visits to locations in Kuwait and Iraq. Works in close relationship to Contractor Officer Representative (COR), Contracting Officer (KO) and Resource Management (RM) to maintain contract funding and allocations. Develops working relationship with contractors, recommends installation planning and work schedules at sites.    Job Title: Information Technology Specialist, DE-2210-03 (GS-13 Equivalent)  Hours per week: 40  Communications-Electronics Command, Software Engineering Center (CECOM-SECB), Army Material Command, Fort Belvoir, VA, 22060  Supervisor: Peter Cloutier, Chief, Enterprise Solutions Competency Center (ESCC) Project Lead COMM May 2008 to September 2008 provides technical management and project oversight for the Enterprise Solutions Competency Center (ESCC), as directed by the ESCC Director. Facilities a team of Computer Science Corporation (CSC) Contractors on creating a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based data portal, which will focus on US Army customers. The team is currently working on designing and implementing custom applications for a customer into the portal. We are also building custom web application services suite tailored to provide any Army customer data access and collaboration abilities using Commercial off the Shelf (COTS) software. Information Technology Specialist, DE-2210-03 (GS-13 Equivalent) Communications-Electronics Command, Software Engineering Center - Fort Belvoir, VA March 2008 to May 2008 Job Title: Information Technology Specialist, DE-2210-03 (GS-13 Equivalent)  Hours per week: 40  Communications-Electronics Command, Software Engineering Center (CECOM-SEC), Army Material Command, Fort Belvoir, VA, 22060  Supervisor: Thomas H. Reichler, Chief, Enterprise Systems Division (ESD) COMM: (703) 806-3155  Start and Ending Dates: March 17, 2008 to May 05, 2008    DUTIES: Assists Project Director, in providing technical and Contract Officer Representative (COR) support to Research, Development and Engineering Command (RDECOM) in its efforts to field and test the Science and Technology Enterprise Management (STEM) program. Works in close conjunction with software contractors to test STEM's collaboration capabilities as well as its program management suite. Manages and report's findings in accordance with the Army Technology Objective (ATO) set forth in the Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) model.    Job Title: Information Technology Specialist, NH-2210-03 (GS-13 Equivalent)  Hours per week: 40  411th Contract Support Brigade, US Army Contracting Command - Korea, Army Contracting Agency, APO AP, 96205-5289  Supervisor: David T. Baum, Chief Business Systems Branch, DSN 315-724-3340  Contact: YES Lead Systems Administrator for Standard Procurement Desktop Information's Management Office October 2006 to March 2008 Defense (PD2) and the Pr Web servers utilized by 411th CSB. Worked as a team member of the Information's Management Office (IMO). Manages unit Active Directory OA, adds and removes users and computers from AD. Sets up servers and desktop PC's within organization. Provides Desktop Support for local site and 3 remote sites in Korea. Administrates unit, terminal server and associated file servers. Sets up and runs organizations Video Tele Conference equipment. Provides PD2 and desktop support to over 200 personnel. Works in close conjunction with SPS software contractor CACI to resolve all SPS related problems via calling helpdesk/technical support. Performs as PD2 Functional Systems Administrator, conducts administrative actions/fixes pertaining to SPS related issues within the server. Creates reports and actions/year end financial data via Contract Action Reports (CAR) for higher headquarters reporting. Performs as alternate COMSEC Account Custodian. Contract Information Systems Specialist, GS US Army Contracting Agency Southwest Asia September 2005 to September 2006 Qatar, Army Contracting Agency, APO AE,09898  Supervisor: Major Mark O'Donnell, DSN 318-432-2235  Start and Ending Dates: September 4, 2005 to September 30, 2006    Duties: Senior Contract Information System Specialist for United States Army Contracting Command Southwest Asia-Qatar (USACC-SWA-QA). Managed the development of specific command plans. Develops command position, prioritizes and advises on proposed requirements to insure regulatory architectural compliance for Contracting Offices in Kuwait, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. Also prepares, and evaluates results of special studies/reports related to or in support of Standard Procurement System (SPS) Procurement Desktop-Defense (PD2) and its evolutionary process, and identifies problems, concerns, issues related to its planning. Analyzes, evaluates, validates, and verifies requirements for command-wide contracting systems, programs, procedures, and resources, to provide optimal performance, for computer/server workload integration. Plans, develops, and manages SPS/PD2, Business Intelligence Extractor and analyzes/inputs from automated data for all USACC-SWA contracting offices for higher headquarters reports. Information Technology Specialist, GS US Army Contracting Agency Southwest Asia March 2005 to September 2005 Qatar, Army Contracting Agency, APO AE,09898  Supervisor: Major Mark O'Donnell, DSN 432-2235  Start and Ending Dates: March 21, 2005 to September 4, 2005    DUTIES: Systems Administrator. Managed administration of 1 Standard Procurement Desktop-Defense (PD2) server, 1 Standard Procurement System-Integration (SPS-I) server, and one SPS Backup server and 20 workstations in the US Army Contracting Agency Qatar. Installs and updates PD2 Client software on Contracting Office workstations. Installs and updates PD2 Server software on SPS Server. Worked with local Contract Systems Administrators to resolve Contracting Office workstation and server connectivity issues. Works in close conjunction with SPS software contractor to resolve all SPS related problems via calling helpdesk/technical support. Performs as PD2 Functional Systems Administrator, conducts administrative actions/fixes pertaining to SPS related issues within the server. Created reports and actions/yearend financial data (DD350) for higher headquarters reporting. Information Technology Specialist, GS HQ US Army Contracting Command December 2004 to March 2005 Europe (USACCE), APO AE, 09266  Supervisor: Dr. Michael Janis, Director of Information's Management, DSN 375-3222  Start and Ending Dates: December 13, 2004 to March 21, 2005    DUTIES: Systems Administrator. Managed joint administration/maintenance of 3 File servers, 1 Exchange 5.5 server. Utilizing an Active Directory Domain and 30 workstations in the Headquarters United States Army Contracting Command Europe (HQ USACCE), and staff offices. Also maintained/provided additional PD2 support for all HQ USACCE Contracting offices in Europe. Served as back up, information's Assurance Officer (IAO)/Coordinator for all Information's Assurance (IA) related information to be disseminated to all HQ USACCE organizations. Information Technology Specialist, GS Regional Contracting Office October 2003 to December 2004 Seckenheim, APO, AE, 09266  Supervisor: Mr. Quentin Blanchard, Chief, Contract Management Branch, DSN 314-375-3352.  Start and Ending Dates: October 6, 2003 to December 10, 2004    DUTIES: Lead Systems Administrator over two local national systems administrators. Managed administration/maintenance of one Primary Domain Controller (PDC), 1 Backup Domain Controller (BDC), 2 Standard Procurement System-Integration (SPS-I)/Procurement Desktop-Defense (PD2) servers, 3 File servers, 1 Exchange 5.5 server and 50 workstations in the Regional Contracting Office Seckenheim, with Sub-Contracting Offices located in Stuttgart, Garmisch and Darmstadt, Germany. Provided PD2 support for all Contracting officials as well as desktop support for all staff members. Served as unit Information's Assurance Manager (IAM)/Coordinator for all Information's Assurance (IA) related updates and information pertaining to Network Security. Information Technology Specialist, GS HQ US Army Contracting Command February 2003 to October 2003 Europe, APO AE, 09266  Supervisor: Dr. Michael Janis, Director of Information's Management, DSN 375-3222  Start and Ending Dates: 24 February 2003 to October 6, 2003    DUTIES: Systems Administrator. Responsible for joint maintenance and administration for one Primary Domain controller, 2 Training Standard Procurement System-Integration (SPS-I)/Procurement Desktop-Defense (PD2) servers, 1 File server, 1 Exchange 5.5 server and 40 workstations in the Headquarters Contracting Command and staff offices. Responsible for ADPE requirements and development of operational plans for support and integration, for USACCE Contracting offices in 9 locations throughout Europe. Resolving and troubleshooting software and communications application problems to enhance operations in all locations. Tasked with coordinating all command System Administrators to: Implement software file configuration changes/change packages. Information Technology Specialist, GS Regional Contracting Office February 2002 to February 2003 Kuwait, Third US Army, ARCENT Kuwait, APO AE, 09366  Supervisor: Henry Duvall, Director of Procurement Analysis, DSN 438-5855.  Start and Ending Dates: February 23, 2002 to February 24, 2003    DUTIES: Responsible for administration of 1 Standard Procurement System-Integration (SPS-I)server , and one Procurement Desktop-Defense (PD2) server and 30 workstations in the Regional Directorate of Contracting (DOC), Third Army, Army Central Command (ARCENT), Republic of Kuwait. Installed hardware and related peripherals and software in network and stand-alone configurations to include cabling of individual workstations. Troubleshot, repaired, and provided software fixes to all systems, (both hardware and software), workstations, and communications. Resolved and troubleshot software and communications application problems to enhance operations. Implemented software file configuration changes/change packages with minimum instruction from hot line services or technical personnel. Education Bachelor's Degree in Information' in s Systems Management Colorado Technical University Present Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory