Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - BlueCross BlueShield Association Washington, DC Professionally provide first thru third level technical support for the IT Operations Department while heightening my skill set as an experienced, reliable and results oriented IT Professional. Work Experience Systems Administrator BlueCross BlueShield Association - Washington, DC November 2016 to Present Responsible for effective provisioning, installation/configuration, operation, and maintenance of system hardware and software and related infrastructure. Proactively participate in technical research and development to enable continuing innovation within the company. Ensure that system hardware, operating systems, software systems, and related procedures adhere to organizational values and SOPs. Respond to user queries in person, by email, via phone, and via VNC/RDP access. Assist technical groups, as well as SMEs, Developers, and Network Engineers with various project issues by performing the definition of needs and technical strategies, technical analysis and design, and support of operations through executing, testing, and roll-out of the solutions and custom applications. Perform daily system monitoring in Active Directory, EM7, and Alert Logic to verify the integrity and availability of all computers, resources, systems, and key processes. Review system and application logs, and verify the completion of scheduled jobs such as backups. Create mailboxes and distribution lists in Exchange, and perform regular security monitoring to identify possible intrusions.  • Supported 300 local users and 100 remote users  • Monitor security incidents reported by Alert Logic and mitigated security vulnerabilities  • Perform malware analysis on different systems to determine the source of the virus and to find the IP address of the intruder so it could be blocked  • Create and updated different firewall rules on the Cisco ASA  • Manage the spam filter (MxLogic) by updating the allow/deny senders lists  • Created and deployed custom computer images using Windows Deployment Services  • Support all smart devices that were brought to the office including Apple, Android, Windows, and Blackberry platforms  • Manage the Cisco VoIP phones via Call Manager by setting up new phones, voicemails, VPN phones, and complex call flows  • Setup custom access for users and external vendors on Juniper VPN Desktop Support Technician American Petroleum Institute - Washington, DC November 2013 to November 2016 • Provide account maintenance through Active Directory  • Image laptops and desktops.  • Replace system boards, LCD screens, hard drives, and wireless cards as needed.  • Analyze and resolve issues according to shifting priorities, time frames and resources.  • Perform data transfers and recoveries.  • Document incidents and resolutions within Service Now.  • Respond to inquiries in-person, email, chat and by phone.  • Conduct monthly inventory audits.  • Support and troubleshoot smartphones on various platforms including Apple, Android, and Blackberry.  • Conduct software upgrades and installations.  • Provide A/V support and manage the conference room scheduler.  • Participate in the onboarding process of new hires and contingent employees.  • Deploy and decommission workstations and equipment.  • Provide superior customer service. Desktop Support Technician Lockheed Martin - Rockville, MD November 2010 to November 2011 • Troubleshoot Windows XP, Vista, and Windows 7 operating systems and MS Office 2007 applications.  • Provided account maintenance through Active Directory which include GAL updates, modify D- list, and configure email accounts.  • Provided Remote Desktop Support to users for PC's, Server, or mainframe applications and hardware.  • Imaged laptops and desktops.  • Replaced system boards, LCD screens, hard drives, and wireless cards as needed.  • Analyzed and resolves problems according to shifting priorities, time frames and resources, as well as documenting resolutions in the call tracking system.  • Updated the knowledge base within Remedy.  • Conducted data transfers and software installations.  • Prepared work spaces and pc setups for new hires.  • Translated technical concepts to non-technical users.  • Provided superior customer service at all times. Refresh Technician Supreme Court of the United States - Washington, DC March 2010 to November 2010 • Migrated all workstations operating systems from Windows XP to Windows 7.  • Transferred user profiles using Windows Easy Transfer.  • Reimaged machines over the network.  • Tested applications and all peripherals for compatibility with the new operating system.  • Conducted inventory.  • Created, maintain, and modify the new image.  • Conducted software upgrades and installations.  • Provided superior customer service at all times Desktop Support Technician Crowell & Moring LLP - Washington, DC January 2008 to March 2010 • Resolved Tier II & III requests for hardware, software, and networking issues.  • Translated technical concepts to non-technical users.  • Troubleshoot MS Office applications.  • Programed and activated Smartphones and Blackberry's.  • Troubleshoot and resolved various Blackberry issues ranging from devices not receiving mail, Calendar and Contacts not appearing, missing Calendar entries, completely wiping the handset and replacing track wheels.  • Analyzed and resolves problems according to shifting priorities, time frames and resources, as well as documenting resolutions in the call tracking system.  • Monitored support activity and advise the team/manager of any perceived trends, positive or negative, in calls being received and/or solutions being employed.  • Continually improves technical proficiency through research, self-training and participation training opportunities.  • Participated in the after-hours pager rotation, providing on-call 24x7 technical support.  • Maintained Active Directory groups and distribution list memberships and security.  • Created new user accounts within Active Directory.  • Conducted account maintenance which included GAL updates, modify distribution list, configure email accounts and reset Outlook passwords.  • Setup AV equipment for conference room meetings.  • Collaborated with Executive Staff in preparation for Town Hall Meetings and special quarterly projects.  • Created and maintain desktop and laptop images.  • Provided superior customer service at all times. Education Bachelor of Science Pittsburg Institute of Mortuary Science Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware