Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lover of all things Java! Moving back to Orange County, CA area late September 2019 Williamsport, PA --Returning to Orange County, CA towards end of September 2019, looking for opportunities there at this time --  • Excellent problem-solving skills, and ability to tackle urgent situations.  • Well acquainted with current industry trends in the market.  • Proficient with SDLC and time management.  • Enthusiastic, self-motivated and attentive to details.  • Eager to learn and use new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator UPMC Susquehanna May 2019 to Present Installing, troubleshooting and deploying computers and software for all of UPMC holdings all over the state. Utilizing years of experience to streamline the process and operations. SEO Specialist Legal InSites - Williamsport, PA October 2018 to April 2019 Handling seo for client websites to increase traffic and revenue. Web Developer Graphic Hive Inc - Williamsport, PA October 2017 to October 2018 • All aspects of Web design from design mockups to final customer approved product  • Utilizing WordPress, Joomla, Shopify, CSS 3, HTML 5, JavaScript, Spring Framework and Rest API  • Worked with several companies and addressed their individual business marketing needs  • Upgraded and maintained company servers  • Provided training to others in web design and coding  • Designed and supervised tech repair shop within business to attract more traffic IT Director Century 21 Masters - Irvine, CA 2017 to 2017 • Helpdesk support for seven locations in all aspects of information technology.  • Including but not limited to: remote desktop support, networking, Active Directory, website design in both WordPress and Adobe Dreamweaver, Salesforce coding, database management, email marketing campaigns, and video production. Java Developer Williamsport Community Radio - Williamsport, PA 2015 to 2017 Position where I had developed multiple GUI based applications for PC and Android operating systems marketed towards middle school and high school students.  • Utilized the entire software development life cycle.  • Used SQL for databases working with Apache Tomcat.  • Set up and maintained networked computer lab of 14 computers set up with Linux  • Created website in JSP to keep track of the progress on the applications to be shared with teachers and parents. Software/Database Developer West Branch Elementary School - Williamsport, PA 2014 to 2015 Position requiring database development for student records and creation of GUI program in Java and .Net to allow more productivity for the school.  • Followed algorithms given by senior database programmers to develop tables and database queries  • Used Visual Studio to develop Windows applications  • Established proper procedures and functions for projects developed in Java and .net.  • Developed triggers for proper working of the queries, ensuring proper error messages would be generated as needed.  • Reviewed developed code to check and remove errors.  • Fixed errors and bugs in developed code with assistance from the senior programmers. Manager Montour Wireless Inc - Williamsport, PA 2007 to 2014 All aspects of computer and cellular phone repair, including hardware/software  installation, removal of viruses, troubleshooting hardware/software errors, and networking, as well as marketing, inventory ordering, and supervision. Education Bachelor of Science in Software Development and Information Management Pennsylvania College of Technology December 2016 Skills JAVA (6 years), CODING (7 years), DATABASE (4 years), ANDROID (2 years), PHP, Javascript, C#, Wordpress, HTML, Jquery, NET, MYSQL, CSS, HTML 5, Git, ASP Certifications/Licenses Linkedin Learning Java Certification April 2019 to Present Linkedin Learning Spring Boot/Data Certification May 2019 to Present Additional Information Skills  • Latest versions of Java (Core Java, Java Collections, Java Streams, Java Persistence, JDBC, JSP, Swing, etc.) Eclipse and NetBeans IDE  • JSP, Spring Framework, MVC, Spring Boot  • Latest versions of CSS, HTML, JavaScript and PHP  • Latest versions of C#.net, C++, C, R, Android, Assembly FASM  • Latest versions of Linux, Windows, Mac OS, and others.  • Oracle, MySQL, and others.  • Microsoft Visual Studio (C#, Java and Xamarin) to program GUI's to interact with  hardware processes.  • Apps development for Windows, Windows Phone (C#) and Android.    Techuppa.com Meetup  • Host and instruct at local Meetup for our area  • Instruct on Java coding, design principals, and latest changes to Java as well as database design and web applications for Java with Spring Framework