Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Worcester, MA Motivated MCSA with strong networking skills and demonstrated technical support seeking an opportunity to work in a company where 10+ years of experience can be highly utilized    HIGHLIGHTS: Organized and detail-oriented * Quick learner learns new technologies quickly and thoroughly customer relations, supervisory, and office administration experience * Bilingual - English and Spanish Work Experience Systems Administrator Staples - Framingham, MA 2013 to 2018 • Monitored system performance & network communication.  • Created filed systems, backup & recover policies.  • Configured, added, and deleted file systems.  • Implemented the policies for the use of the computer system and network.  • Arranged repair for hardware in occasion of hardware failure & documented all solutions & procedures. Security Accounts Administrator Tufts Health Plan - Watertown, MA 2009 to 2013 • Responsible for user account set up in Active Directory /Network /Troubleshoot  • Handles all aspect of VPN set up and Granted VPN access using RSA token.  • Trained employees in the use of their token.  • Unlocked employees accounts by using Windows 2003 Active Directory.  • Developed authorization forms for new hires, transfers, application and network access requests.  • Provided network support to the Help Desk department.  • Reset employees web applications, Linux, UNIX and Red Hat passwords when required to.  • Granted access for consultants to servers across the Tufts Health Plan Network and DMZ.  • Managed and troubleshoot network environments in the Windows operating system. Desktop Administrator Staples - Framingham, MA 2008 to 2009 • Provided technical expertise to enable the correct application of operational procedures.  • Contributed to the planning and implementation of maintenance and installation work.  • Coordinated the implementation of agreed remedies and preventative measures.  • Created and maintained support documentation.  • Coordinated the implementation of agreed remedies and preventative measures.  • Installed or removed hardware and/or software, and associated connections, using supplied installation instructions and tools. Partners Mass General Hospital - Boston, MA 2006 to 2008 • Provided desktop support services to Partners Healthcare Systems.  • Troubleshoot software and hardware to desktop and laptops.  • Provided maintenance by either cleaning the user's hard drive or rebuilding it.  • Provided security for laptop users.  • Enforced organizational policy, reducing reliance on user judgment or intervention.  • Provided central management capabilities for policy and data control. Education Master Certificate New Horizon Computer Learning Center Skills Networking, Windows, Active Directory Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Windows 9x/2000 Pro/XP/7 • DNS/DHCP/WINS  • Network Administration • Microsoft Office 2003-2010 • LAN/WAN/Star/Ring  • Network Hardware • Windows NT Server • Server Routers  • Solution Development • TCP/IP • Exchange Server  • Troubleshooting • Windows Server 2000/2003