Systems Administrator (Associate) <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Associate) Systems Administrator (Associate) - University of Mississippi Medical Center Clinton, MS Quality-driven Associate System Administrator dedicated to maximizing performance and ensuring a highly-available and secure environment. 5+ years of technical experience. Work Experience Systems Administrator (Associate) University of Mississippi Medical Center - Jackson, MS November 2018 to Present 39213)  Manage Dell Wyse environments and technologies for 2,000+ Units for remote and onsite users.    Leveraged PowerShell and Wyse Management Suite to automate tasks and maximize productivity.    Administrator backup for various other systems in use by the University (Bomgar Remote Desktop, Ivanti Service Desk, Citrix (Limited), etc.)    Propose new plans to update hardware and software for end users in the organization increasing security, scalability, and efficiency. Help Desk (Associate) University of Mississippi Medical Center - Jackson, MS September 2017 to November 2018 39213)  Diagnose and repair any client issues with devices and software.    Utilize tools to promptly assist users with their issues (Bomgar Remote Desktop, ADUC, etc)    Familiar with various software issues and resolutions of a multitude of medical programs. (EPIC, Lawson, Kronos, Entrust, Citrix, etc.)    Familiar with component and software issues and bugs to promptly find solutions to users needs. Advanced Repair Agent Geek Squad - Flowood, MS July 2016 to September 2017 39232)  Diagnose and repair any client issues with their devices    Maintain constant growing knowledge on everything from software to hardware in current consumer electronics    Contact client as often as needed to assure the repair is made to the clients satisfaction    Be familiar with replacement of components, and upgrades when dealing with clients devices (software included) Consultation Agent Geek Squad - Flowood, MS August 2014 to July 2016 39232)  Provide friendly service to clients who arrive to speak with Agents.    Provide fast and accurate consultations to help clients with their issues.    Sell services for device repair / diagnostics while assisting the client further.    Diagnose and reset returned product to be sold again as a Geek Squad Certified Open Box item.    Handle all shipping of clients devices to the service center for extensive testing.    Handle all callbacks and contact with clients whose devices are complete, or still in repair. Computer sales Associate Best Buy April 2013 to August 2014 Best Buy (3889 Promenade Pkwy, Diberville, MS 39540)  Maintained positive customer interactions to get to know the customer and what they want/need.    Provided quality service to customers which showed in interactions.    Maintained extensive knowledge of current product to make sure the customer is happy with their experience.    Provided fast and accurate check out process. Education A.A.S. in Network Security in Network Security Hinds Community College August 2016 to May 2017 Skills System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory Additional Information Skills  • Microsoft Office  • Hardware / Software proficiency  • Active Directory and Exchange  • Powershell Scripting  • Firewalls and Security  • System Monitoring  • Very quick study