Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Magna Mirrors International Lowell, MI Hardworking and dependable IT professional seeking to obtain a challenging position in a growth-oriented company, allowing me to further utilize my skills & acquire new abilities. Work Experience Systems Administrator Magna Mirrors International - Alto, MI October 2016 to Present Managing\Maintaining HP ProLiant DL360 9th Gen Servers, as well as over 300 PCs.  ? Performing server\PC backups and imaging devices.  ? Configuring and maintaining over 150 Active Directory accounts.  ? Applying GPOs to OUs and applying folder permissions to users and groups.  ? Assisting users with software installation and troubleshooting.  ? Installing and configuring various DVR camera systems.  ? Working with multiple teams to accomplish goals and troubleshoot problems that affect workflow\production.  ? Meeting windows update, anti-virus, and firewall compliance standards set by Magna Global IT. Wireless Technician Vergennes Broadband - Lowell, MI April 2016 to October 2016 Installing, configuring, and troubleshooting wireless access points and stations.  ? Climbing towers and performing upgrades/maintenance.  ? Operating a directional drill and excavating equipment to install cable duct, pedestals, and handholes.  ? Fiber optic cable splicing.  ? Managing drill site and organizing equipment. Computer Repair Supervisor Genius Phone Repair - Grand Rapids, MI July 2014 to April 2016 Diagnosing and repairing laptops\desktops with various hardware and software issues.  ? Quoting customers and keeping them updated on repairs.  ? Assisting retail locations with repairs remotely.  ? Ordering parts for repairs.  ? Repairing a variety of devices from phones to tablets to laptops. Skills ENCRYPTION, FIREWALL (2 years), WIRELESS (Less than 1 year), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (2 years), NETWORKING Additional Information Technical Skills Summary    ? Operating Systems: Windows, Mac, Linux, Android, and iOS  ? Hardware: Servers, Desktops, Laptops, Smartphones, Tablets, Printers, Routers, Switches, & Cable/DSL Modems.  ? Software: Virtualization, Vmware ESXi, iLO, Hyper-V, Active Roles, Remote Desktop/VNC, Microsoft Office Suite, Command Prompt/PowerShell, Anti-virus/Anti-spyware software, Windows Firewall, Installation and configuration of Active Directory.  ? Security: NTFS Security Configuration, Setup and deployment of Group Policy, Network and domain security management, & File encryption.  ? Networking: Wireless Equipment and Receivers (900MHz, 2.4GHz, 5GHz), VPN, Routers/Repeaters, TCP/IP configurations, Setup and deployment of internal and external networks.