Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Linux Server Administrator - Independent Consulting Las Vegas, NV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Independent Consulting March 2019 to Present 100% Telecommute  Assist with deployment and augmentation in an Ubuntu Server-based Linux environment.  Updated Nagios monitoring with custom plugins and additional utilities for better visibility into the state of the environment  Performed security audit on the current environment using OpenVAS for bulnerability scanning and BurpSuite for web application assessment and documented the results for management.  Configured and maintained MariaDB-based Galera Cluster with ProxySQL and Weave under Docker for high availability of the production databases.  Co-wrote custom backup/restore script for MariaDB databases.  Wrote scripts to automate deployment of client's product offerings. Sr. Linux Server Administrator Independent Consulting May 2016 to Present CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu (100% Telecommute)  Assist the client with CentOS 6.x and 7.x issues along with Windows (2003, 2008 R2, 2012 Server) issues for their end clients.  Built/deployed BackupPC on CentOS7 for end client backups  All tasks completed by remote/telecommuting IT Technician Level 4/Project Technician Independent Consulting October 2017 to January 2019 4/Projects Technician (100% Telecommute)  Escalation point for teams and leads for advanced technical issues.  Linux server administration and troubleshooting (RHEL 7)  Sonicwall firewall configuration and troubleshooting  Windows Server Administrator (2003, 2008/2008 R2, SBS 2011, 2012, and 2016)  Windows desktop Administration (XP, 7, Windows 10)  Microsoft SQL Server troubleshooting  VMWare ESX/ESXi configuration and troubleshooting  Cloud migration planning and implementation.  Dell Equalogic and Powervault storage configuration and troubleshooting  Veeam Backup configuration and troubleshooting  Office 365 email migrations  Conducted a PCI compliance audit for one client. SwitchIT Network - Senior Microsoft Active Directory Engineer Independent Consulting October 2017 to January 2018 100% Telecommute)  Senior AD engineer to create GPOs and other AD related work  VMware integration, security, automation and reporting. Thotwave - Linux System Administrator Independent Consulting November 2014 to November 2017 100% Telecommute)  Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 and 7 administration for the Thotwave environment including initial installs, patching servers, and performance tuning for SAS environment.  Windows 2008R2/2012 Server administration (Active Directory, DNS, deploy new VMs, patching servers, etc.)  VMWare ESXi 5.5 administration (deploy new VM's, iSCSI storage management, patching ESXi server, etc)  Integrated RHEL6 and 7 servers with Active Directory  Bash shell scripting to automate various tasks.  Deployed Nagios on RHEL6 for systems monitoring  Deployed OpenVAS on CentOS 6.6 for internal vulnerability scanning.  Principal POC for Unitrends enterprise backup solution.  Principal POC for Quantum StorNext enterprise storage appliance (updates, management).  JBOSS and Tomcat troubleshooting and administration  Deployed, configured, and maintained Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager server and clients.  Conducted monthly vulnerability scans utilizing OpenVAS and remediation of any critical issues found.  All tasks completed by remote/telecommuting Sr. Linux Administrator for Redhat Openshift Independent Consulting May 2016 to October 2017 v3 Deployment (100% Telecommute)  Consultant on the production deployment of RedHat Openshift Origin v3 to the client's IaaS provider (Cloud Sigma) through Ansible.  Review Ansible scripts for this deployment.  Deployed duplicate environment via Vagrant for troubleshooting  Troubleshoot and resolve Openshift, Docker, and Kubernetes issues  Deployed and maintained Graylog on CentOS7 for consolidated logging and alerting.  Deployed and maintained BackuPC on CentOS7 for system backups.  CentOS 7 administration/maintenance  Wrote Ansible scripts to automate new master/node deployments  Wrote Nagios plugins to monitor different aspects of the environment.  All tasks completed by remote/telecommuting VMWare System Administrator Independent Consulting March 2016 to December 2016 100% Telecommute)  VMWare ESX/ESXi troubleshooting  Windows 2008 R2 server administration and troubleshooting  Network Security augmentation (SIEM, APT/Malware Sandboxing, Data Loss Prevention)  Multi-site firewall audit (HA pair Sonicwall NSA 3600 and multiple TZ series)  Lead engineer for a firewall migration from Soniwall to Fortinet for multi-site end client.  All tasks completed by remote/telecommuting ISC - Hardware Integration Engineer Independent Consulting April 2014 to January 2015 100% Telecommute)  Hardware integration and test for a project built around the Oculus Rift 3D headset.  Authored a trade study to determine the necessary system requirements to create a wearable, un-tethered Oculus Rift environment for 3D immersive environment.  Upgraded the Oculus Rift with RiftUp! Enhancement.  Assembled MbientLab Meta Wear bluetooth wearable sensor for future integration with the platform.  All tasks completed by remote. Network Engineer III (Network Security) Bally Technologies April 2013 to January 2014 SIEM Architect for the global Linked Games Network (NetIQ Sentinel 7 w/ Change Guardian 4)  Conducted extensive evaluation of several SIEM packages (Splunk, LogRhythm, Solarwinds LEM, etc) to evaluate which would fit the Linked Games environmental needs and authored the trade study resulting in the purchase of NetIQ Sentinel and Change Guardian. This included deployment of these packages in the Linked Games environment (Sentinel, Splunk, and Solarwinds LEM were deployed in our live environment)  VMWare architect for the Linked Games security lab environment (vSphere 5.5)  Co-authored the trade study for a centralized backup and cloud storage suite resulting in the purchase of Commvault Simpana 10. This included deploying Commvault Simpana 10, EMC Avamar, Asigra/Rand Secure Backup, and CA Arcserve in the Linked Games environment.  Deployed NetIQ Sentinel 7 SIEM on Red Hat Enterprise 6 servers to secure the global Linked Games network.  Developed correlation rules for Sentinel and file integrity monitoring policies for Change Guardian.  Configured and deployed Cent OS 6.4 Linux Rsyslog 7.6.2 based log collectors/relays with UDP spoofing to replace Kiwi Log servers.  Performed external and internal vulnerability scans utilizing Tenable Nessus and reported results to the appropriate groups for remediation.  Developed the internal/external vulnerability scanning and penetration testing schedule and procedures. Network Security Engineer Teksystems / Caesars Entertainment June 2012 to February 2013 Monitor the corporate network for anomalies via RSA Netwitness Investigator and Solera Deep See.  Performed full investigations into events detected in Investigator.  Assisted with the installation and configuration of Motorola Air Defense controller and sensors.  Integral part of the team responsible for monitoring the Rio Las Vegas Hotel & Casino LAN as well as traffic back to the Caesars corporate network during the DefCon 20th Anniversary convention.  Monitor and remediate wireless violations via Motorola Air Defense  POC for Symantec Endpoint Manager and all malware incidents reported through SEPM.  Assigned malware incidents detected in SEPM to property IT and consulted with remediation.  Monitor and investigate incidents detected in FireEye appliances.  Part of the Data Loss Prevention team: Investigate policy violations flagged by Symantec DLP (Vontu) under various policies (PCI, SOX, PII) and determined whether they were false positives or warrant further scrutiny and escalation.  Assist with policy tuning in Symantec DLP to eliminate "noise".  Authored AV remediation procedures and network incident response documentation for the DDS team and property IT.  Daily monitoring of Tipping Point IPS appliance.  Analyze and act on events detected via off-site managed SIEM provider alerting (AV, network intrusion, host scanning, etc) Windows Vmware System Integrator Right 2 Left Design, Inc November 2011 to July 2012 100% Telecommute)  VMWare VSphere administration in support of new product offering.  Perform initial VM provisioning to setup a cloud backup service.  Provision iSCSI storage for SQL2008 and Asigra backup VM's via Netapp Snap Drive for Windows.  Perform dedicated VM provisioning based on customer demand for new services.  Perform V2V migration via WAN  SQL 2008 R2 database migration to new virtual server  All tasks completed via remote. Senior Linux Systems Administrator (Telecommute) Right 2 Left Design, Inc December 2011 to March 2012 Senior Linux Admin in support of the SAP Data Services installation project at client site.  Suse Linux Enterprise Server 10 administration in parallel of Business Objects installation.  Wrote Python scripts in conjunction with Selenium IDE to automate retrieval of survey data from third party vendor.  All tasks completed via remote. Staff Engineering Associate, Systems Engineer General Dynamics C4 Systems - Scottsdale, AZ July 2006 to May 2011 NSD Tools Virtualization Pilot  Co-authored proposal justifying the use of VMWare virtualization technology for cost-reduction on NSD programs and tools evaluation and acted as primary VMWare architect for this effort.  Utilized existing contacts with VMWare, IBM, and EMC to obtain price quotes for start-up infrastructure.  Negotiated with the SOA group to leverage the existing underutilized VMWare infrastructure as a temporary workspace to stand up new Rational tools (Rational Jazz, Team Concert, etc).  Installed, configured, and maintained VMWare ESXi 4, VMWare VSphere Server, and View environments.  Deployed Windows XP SP 3 desktop VM's for client access in VMWare View.  Installed new HP Proliant and Dell servers, iSCSI NAS, and EMC AX4 NAS in support of this effort.  Installed and configured Windows 2003 Server in Virtual Machines and configured Windows 2003 based Active Directory domain and DNS for use with VMWare View clients.  Utilized EMC Avamar de-duplication backup software as well as Avamar virtual appliance for VMWare to archive VM's.  Installed, configured, and maintained Microsoft SQL Server 2005 virtual machines    Network Security Engineering Sponsored Project (ESP)  Researched methods for improving the security posture of the GD LAN.  Setup telecoms and small product installs with a number of vendors including Novell (Sentinel), ArcSight(ESM), and NetQoS(various)  Conducted meetings with network security personnel to identify strengths and weaknesses of the overall LAN as well as gather information on the various attack vectors currently in use.  Worked side-by-side with network security staff to gain experience utilizing various network security detection and analysis tools.  Captured the various methods of tracing a network attack utilizing ISS IPS, IronGate, Webwasher, and Splunk to mine data for attack signature events and correlated the data.  Utilized ISS Proventia G200 IPS appliances and Endpoint Security in conjunction with Site Protector console to capture and investigate threats.  Conducted a trade study on IPS and SIEM enhancements to the network.  Co-authored the final report for this ESP and made purchase recommendations to upper management.    Service Oriented Architecture Internal Research and Development (SOA IRAD)  Primary VMWare engineer/architect for implementations of 3 different SOA IRAD projects.  Attended/completed VMWare VSphere 4 training  Setup and deployed VMWare View for a related Engineering Sponsored Project.  Proposed architectural changes to existing physical and virtual infrastructure to further augment performance in SOA environments.  Assisted with SOA proposal as a Subject Matter Expert for VMWare ESX3.5, giving input on how this can be properly utilized to help maintain SLA's for delivery of SOA services.  Authored and maintained network topology diagrams for the SOA lab  Deployed, configured, and maintained BEA SOA solution (AquaLogic, WebLogic, Microsoft SQL 2005 and one implemented with Oracle 11g) for two of the SOA reference implementations.  Deployed and performed initial configuration and maintenance of Liferay 5.x portal on Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.5 64 bit in support of an open source based SOA implementation.  Day-to-day management of Liferay portal including database backend, portlet/plugin management, LDAP, and application server issues (Apache Tomcat).  Deployed Layer 7 Technologies XML Gateway virtual machine on VMWare ESX 3.5  Deployed and maintained IBM Websphere on Windows 2003 Server R2 in VMWare infrastructure.  Installed and configured VMWare ESX 3.5 + VMWare Virtual Center Server on IBM HS21 Blade servers  Installed and configured two of three Windows 2003 Server based AD domains for this effort.  Maintained several areas of documentation including lab setup and virtual infrastructure.  Integrated existing lab into new environment and virtualized much of it.  Attended SEROS SOA architecture administration training.  Researched and purchased new hardware for the SOA lab.  Wrote Bash shell scripts to automate various tasks.  Assisted with preparing the lab for two successful demonstrations of SOA technology.  Primary VMWare Architect for third SOA based IRAD utilizing Vmotion, DRS,HA, and other VMWare ESX and Virtual Center capabilities.  Installed, configured, and maintained Microsoft SQL Server 2005 virtual machines for use by various projects.  Installed and configured Oracle 11g on Windows 2003 Server virtual machines.    Mobile User Objective System (MUOS):  Authored several Network Management System (NMS) Segment Tests.  Successfully completed NMS Build 2 test development and software integration activities. This includes passing FQT with the customer on hand on schedule.  Authored the Accounting Management tests for Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN), Radio Network Core (RNC) (Group and P2P), MAS, and Call Session Control Function (CSCF) interfaces. This includes utilizing Ericsson Multi Mediation, Diameter node, and custom Unix and java scripts to automate the test execution.  Authored Accounting Management (AM) automated validation scripts for use during Formal Qualification Test (FQT) execution.  Assisted with the Performance Management (PM) test procedures that utilized Ericsson's Operation Support System for Radio & Core (OSS-RC).  Conducted the AM, PM, and Configuration Management Key Path testing in SWIT2 lab.  Helped streamline the deployment and management process for the SWIT2 lab and workstations.  Assisted with Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) requirements on Win2003, XP, and Sun Solaris 9 and wrote ksh (Korn Shell) scripts to automate much of the Solaris 9 STIG for compliance with DoD/DISA standards.  Installed Microsoft SQL Server 2005 on Windows 2003 Server.  Installed, configured, and maintained IBM Tivoli Configuration Manager for Windows servers and workstations in two NMS test datacenters.  Installed, configured, and maintained IBM Tivoli Storage Manager for Windows servers and Solaris servers.  Installed, configured, and maintained McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator in two NMS test datacenters.  Deployed, configured, and verified operation of Novell Sentinel 5.x Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) solution in the NMS test datacenters.  Verified data flow from origination points to SQL servers by log inspection of each server and SQL query for AM, PM, and CM components.  Submit changes to existing procedural documentation for peer review, then to the Change Review Board for final approval.  Key point of contact for Sun Solaris 9, 10 and Red Hat Enterprise Linux nodes in NMS  Peer reviewed documentation changes and sat on review committees for procedural, documentation, and software change requests.  Verified software changes in Clear Quest through deployment in a test environment before deployment into production. Defects are reported to the stakeholder for additional work.  Verified documentation changes in Clear Quest and noted defects to stakeholder.  Integration of COTS and in-house developed applications on Win32 (2003 Server) and Unix.  Setup a Windows 2003 Server based Active Directory domain in one of the development/test data centers on HP Proliant DL140 and DL380 servers.  Executed Accounting Management tests for customer (LHM and PMW 146) for technical concurrence and dry-run.    SPARCS:  Demoed Low Earth Orbit Satellite Communications system (SPARCS L-Band) to the US Army Stryker Brigade in FT. Lewis, WA  Co-authored design proposal for a small, single man-deployable satellite communications system based on the General Dynamics Reachback hardware.  Maintained the SPARCS development lab and its network connectivity with the GD LAN. The lab consisted of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4 nodes as well as Sun Solaris 10 x86.  Contributed to the project as a member of the hardware and software integration and test team for L-Band.  Configured and deployed VxWorks for use by development team responsible for the KA band modem  Set up and installed Compact PCI chassis and hardware for testing with the newly developed Ka band modem.  Wrote Ksh and Bash scripts to automate configuration of Red Hat and Solaris machines.  Set up and installed IBM Blade Center Chassis and configured blade servers for use.  Configured and installed Packet Storm Hurricane for network simulation as well as a PC equipped with Packet Storm Tornado software running as a backup.  Configured, deployed, and administered Stratus ft2400 High Availability server running Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4 (RHEL 4) Enterprise  Authored and executed SelectFocus image/video software tests across low bandwidth L-Band nodes.  Participated in code and documentation reviews for SPARCS L-Band and Ka-Band units.  Authored the L-Band Customer Acceptance Test and updated the L-Band User Guide.  Executed L-Band final acceptance tests with the customer present (National Geospatial Agency).    High Assurance Platform (HAP):  Was an integral part of the Release 1 team which hit our release deadline for V1.0 of our platform.  Set up and deployed Cisco 3825 Integrated Services routers in a test network environment for the High Availability Platform (HAP) program  Maintained test lab networks and workstations in a Win32 Active Directory environment.  Setup and deployed Cisco PIX 501 and 506e firewall units as VPN gateways in a test network environment.  Executed HAP GUI software tests and escalated defects to development.    Environments: Sun Solaris 9 and 10, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4, Mandrake Linux 9.2 and 2006, Eclipse, Net Beans, Rational Clear Case, Clear Quest, and Req Pro, Windows 2003 Server, Windows XP Professional, Citrix, Ghost. Contract Employment - Project Engineer/ Systems Integration and Testing Engineer Superior SDC - General Dynamics C4 Systems - Scottsdale, AZ October 2005 to July 2006 Scottsdale, AZ  10/2005 - 7/2006    Contract Employment - Project Engineer/ Systems Integration and Testing Engineer  Unix/Linux Systems Engineer assigned to the SPARCS team.  Contributed C and Java code for SI&T Network Protocol Descrambler  Configured and installed IBM Blade Chassis and servers for use by the I&T Team  Configured NFS server, Samba Server, and Fedora Core 4 Kickstart server for I&T  Wrote Ksh and Bash scripts to automate configuration of Red Hat/Fedora and Solaris machines.  Conducted kernel level analysis of EQL line bundler pseudo-device under Linux to determine whether it can support multicast data transmission  Built custom tailored Linux kernels in support of the Reachback L-Band line bundled device running Mandrake 9.2 Linux.  Set up and maintain SI&T lab consisting of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4 and Solaris 10 x86 workstations and servers  Setup Packet Storm Tornado software for use by I&T  Setup Packet Storm Hurricane for use by I&T  Assisted in the configuration of Comtech Turbo IP performance enhancement proxy  Performed general integration tasks and executed test plans for various projects  Setup SI&T lab to support testing of broadband data transmissions across Iridium satellites  Setup and testing network encryption software  Environments: Sun Solaris 10x86, Fedora Core 4 & 5, Mandrake Linux 9.2 and 2006, Eclipse, Net Beans, CVS, Rational Clear Case and Req Pro. Contract Employment - System Administrator (Unix/Linux) Intertec Consulting - Phoenix, AZ August 2005 to September 2005 Brought in to perform Linux and Sun Solaris server builds.  Solaris 8 and 9 builds on Sun 440 and 480 platforms.  Red Hat Enterprise Linux 2.1 builds on Dell Power Edge 2650 and 2850 platforms.  Install and configure Veritas software on Linux servers.  Install and configure complete Websphere 5.1 hubs consisting of Linux based app, web, and NDM servers.  Added all server information in online CRM db.  Environments: Sun Solaris 8/9, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 2.1, Websphere 5.1 Contract Employment - Unix QA Engineer MDI - PatchLink - Scottsdale, AZ April 2005 to May 2005 QA Testing of Patchlink wrapped vendor supplied OS and Application patches on a number of Unix platforms.  Currently supporting Red Hat Enterprise Linux 2.1, 3, and 4, Sun Solaris 2.6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 (SPARC only), AIX 5.0 and 5.3, and HPUX11.  Responsible for maintaining my own test environment and configuring and reconfiguring it as necessary through the use of Unix Administration skillset.  Wrote Ksh and Bash scripts to automate configuration of Red Hat, HP/UX, AIX, and Solaris machines.  Responsible for moving patches to Release Management when they have passed QA.  Responsible for updating testing guidelines.  Some Win32 QA testing, only when extra manpower is needed.  Environments: Sun Solaris 2.6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, HP-UX 11, AIX 50. and 5.3, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 2.1, 3, and 4. Windows XP Professional. Advanced Product Support Specialist Cyclone Commerce - Scottsdale, AZ May 2004 to July 2004 Supported Cyclone Interchange 4.x products on Win32 and Unix platforms  Created Sun Solaris 8 and 9 x86 VMWare image for developer testing and product development  Found the root cause of a file-descriptor issue with Solaris (SPARC) version of Activator/Interchange 4.x.  Assisted with QA testing, tested builds of 4.x series on Solaris, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, and HP/UX  Tested patches for 4.x series on Unix/Linux platforms and recorded results in CRM  Maintained all customer contacts and activities within Pivotal CRM.  Fully documented all solutions for later retrieval via online knowledge base.  Environments: Activator/Interchange 4.x, HP-UX, Solaris 8 and 9 (SPARC and x86), Win32, Red Hat Linux (7.x, 9, AS2.1, and AW3), VM Ware, Pivotal CRM Contract Employment - Unix Administrator/Production Support Hall Kinion - Tempe, AZ December 2003 to February 2004 Production support for mission-critical servers.  Supporting Custom application on Red Hat Enterprise Linux 2.1 AS  Move data between MS SQL server to production and QA servers.  Participated in 24/7 support by working any shift necessary (including holidays)  Constant monitoring of all production servers in the "cluster" and repairing databases as needed.  Backup and verification of database to kickstart server  Some shell scripting (BASH shell)  Environments: Red Had Linux Advanced Server 2.1, PMVS, MS SQL server, HP-UX General Desktop Support Platinum Select - American Reliable Insurance Company - Scottsdale, AZ November 2003 to December 2003 Scottsdale, Az  11/2003 - 12/2003    Contract Employment - Desktop/Server Support  General Desktop Support in a mixed NT4 and Windows 2000 Environment.  Built Ghost images for specific departments and created an automated boot/install disk for this process.  Recommended the purchase of mNotes software for use with Windows CE based PDA devices.  Recommended the purchase of Netasyst network monitoring software to monitor and troubleshoot daily network issues.  Troubleshooting Windows NT4 and 2000 Server issues as they arose.  Configured Thin.Print server/client software on 1 of 3 Citrix MetaFrame servers to resolve problematic print issues for remote users.  Assisted with AS/400 writer issues.  AS/400 administration (user and system administration via SECADM or QSECOFR login)  HP LaserJet printer troubleshooting and maintenance.  Updated software on Windows 2000 servers  Windows NT4 Domain Administrator  Environments: Windows 2000, Windows NT4, Windows 2000 Server, Windows NT 4 Server, Lotus Notes 5, Office 97 and 2000, Citrix Metaframe XP, Crystal Reports 8.5, Thin.Print, IBM AS/400, Client Access Express, SFTP, Windows 2000 Terminal Services, PC Anywhere, SMS 1.2 Contract Employment - Tape Operator/Unix Administrator - Production Support Teksystems - Automatic Data Processing, Inc - Ann Arbor, MI April 2003 to August 2003 Tape backup operations for clients using proprietary backup solution.  Maintain connections to GM, Ford, UUNET, and other vendors.  Maintain LAN connectivity for the servers.  Installation and administration of Red Hat Linux 7.1 based IBM servers in the ASP Data Center.  Update and patch the server applications and OS as needed.  Troubleshoot problems down to the OS level.  Bash and Korn shell scripting to automate processes.  Maintain backup tape log for nightly backups.  Maintained weekly tape rotation logs  Participated in 12 hour shift rotations to maintain 24/7 availability.  Serviced clients directly via phone.  Manual data backup and restores for clients.  Environments: 500+ remote users, Red Hat 7.1, Windows 98/2000, MS Office 2000, WRQ Reflections 7.x, ADP Reality (proprietary), FTP, SSH, System V Technical Support Administrator BBDO Detroit - Troy, MI January 2002 to October 2002 Special Projects Team and 4th Level PC support in a 2000+user environment consisting of Win95, Win98, WinNT4, and Win2000 machines.  24/7 On-Call weekly rotation via company provided pager, cell-phone, and laptop.  Headed 1 of 3 Domain migrations - took the lead role in the physical migration of 300+ users to a consolidated, Active Directory domain as well as coordinated the efforts between pc techs and NT/2000 administrators to ensure a smooth transition.  Participated in 2 other AD domain migrations, taking a "point person" role for PC techs and NT/2000 Admins.  Lead tech in switching the 300+ users in the Daimler Chrysler Call Center to roaming profiles.  Troubleshoot ODBC issues for developers connecting to AS/400  Lotus Notes R5 installation, setup, and troubleshooting  Unix printer setup under Sun Solaris 8  AS400 password resets  Participated in the migration from Win95, 98, and NT to Win2000.  Tested Windows XP stability for possible future rollout.  Lead technician for several software rollouts.  Right-Fax Server Administrator (Win2000 Server)  Built-out and deployed Web servers running Win2K Server and IIS 5  Built and deployed and several dual-boot PC's for developer testing.  HP Printer Maintenance and troubleshooting.  Environments: 2000+ Users - Win95, Win98, WinNT4, Win2000, WinXP, Win2000 Server, Active Directory, Magic Total Service Desk, IIS 5, Crystal Reports, IBM AS/400, Norton Ghost, Exceed, Windows 2000 Terminal Services Kelly Services - Borders Group Inc - Ann Arbor, MI September 2001 to December 2001 Ann Arbor, Mi  09/2001 - 12/2001    Contract Employment - Store Systems Support  Responded to telephone calls and email requests for technical support  Windows NT4 Server Administration for 400+ Borders Books and Music stores globally.  MS Exchange 5.5 administration  Remote re-imaging of floor and office pc's via Norton Ghost images and SMS Administrator/PC Anywhere.  LAN/WAN troubleshooting for each of BGI's stores globally.  Administration for Backup Domain Controllers located in each Borders Bookstore (setup, add print queues, access permissions, stop/restart processes, system reboots, etc )  Remote desktop administration and troubleshooting using PC Anywhere and SMS 1.1  System-level and Sybase Database troubleshooting under Sun Solaris via telnet connection  Maintained and administered Compaq Servers using Compaq Insight Manager and SMS 1.1  Environments: 2000+ remote users - Win98, Win NT4 Server, RCMD, Sun Solaris, Expert Advisor, Norton Ghost, MS Exchange Server 5.5, Kronos, SMS Management Console 1.2, Sybase, PC Anywhere, Compaq Insight Manager, FTP, SSH Help Desk Analyst/CSR ABN AMRO Information - Ann Arbor, MI August 1998 to August 2001 Hired in after 1.5 years of contract work through Olsten Staffing.  Responded to telephone calls and email requests for technical support.  Tracked all calls and coordinated escalation via Tivoli call tracking software.  WinNT4 administration (user adds/deletes, Security, group maintenance, etc )  Basic PC Technician - Desktop support, HP printer maintenance, some laptop support.  Level 2 Support for 2 ABN AMRO E-Commerce web sites (https://www.moairocks.com and http://www.mortgage.com ). Maintained problem database and escalation within PVCS Tracker to Level3 support.  Lotuses Notes R4 support - Setup new Notes clients, troubleshoot any issues, requested new id files if old files became corrupt. Connected new users to any databases or resources necessary.  Conducted testing of Windows 2000 for eventual migration from NT4  Supported MUPIT II loan underwriting application (proprietary, in-house app)  Provided 1st call resolution on the majority of incoming calls.  Loan Status and MOAI CSR.  Environments: 500+ local users/500+ remote users - WinNT4.0, Win2000, Tivoli, PVCS Tracker, MS Office 97, MS Office 2000, Lotus Notes, Lotus CC Mail, Kronos, MUPIT II (proprietary underwriting app), SMS 1.1 Education Graphic Design Eastern Michigan University 1990 to 1991 Skills Linux (10+ years), MICROSOFT WINDOWS (10+ years), Redhat (10+ years), Security (10+ years), VMWare (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), System Admin (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years), Linux Administrator (10+ years) Additional Information Skill Set: Windows 2003/2008 Server, Windows XP, Vista, Win7, Solaris, HP-UX 11, AIX 5.0/5.3, Linux (Red Hat Enterprise Linux 2.x, 3, 4, 5.x, 6.x, Suse Enterprise Linux, 8, 9, 10, Cent OS 5.x/6.x), Windows NT/2000/2003 Server Security, Network Security/Data Loss Prevention, Network Vulnerability Assessment, Active Directory, Rational Clear Case/Clear Quest. Software Integration and Test, QA, VMWare ESX / VSphere, VMWare View