Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Gibney Anthony & Flahery LLP Bergenfield, NJ Obtain a challenging position as a System Engineer with emphasis on applying and expanding my knowledge with a company utilizing current technologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR | GIBNEY ANTHONY & FLAHERTY LLP - New York, NY June 2014 to Present · Technical lead for multiple high visibility projects which included the migration from our Email hosted environment to Office 365. Migrating our two largest departments file server storage to a new platform called Worldox. Upgrading our VM Ware environment to 5.5.  · Was responsible for configuring our new office site in San Francisco. Which I was responsible for configuring a new data center and work the logistics with the electricians and facilities.  · Installing, configuring and maintaining servers (both physical and virtual); performing and monitoring daily backups  · Using network monitoring software to ensure network uptime  · Supporting and maintaining networking and telecommunication systems  · Creating and maintaining user accounts on network, email and phone systems and on other firm-specific applications  · Managing Windows Deployment Server to image the firm's desktop and laptop computers  · Approving and deploying Windows updates to the firm's computers and servers  · Monitoring app installs on firm mobile devices using Air-watch software  · Handling high level and escalated support requests  · Creating and publishing articles for the firm's IT knowledge base Systems Administrator The Gem Group, Inc - Lawrence, MA 2007 to Present • Technical lead for multiple high visibility projects which included the migration of our Citrix XenApp 4.5 infrastructure to XenApp 6.5, the consolidation of our fax environment reducing the cost of maintenance and support by providing a cloud fax board solution. The retirement and implementation of our patch management system in the US office and China office. Implemented the companies windows 7 migration from XP by using scripted installations tools and migrating client profiles for a seamless transition.  • Act as a System Administrator with concentration on supporting and expanding production environments, taking responsibility for, and engaging in; IT operations, infrastructure design, implementation, monitoring, troubleshooting, consultation, vendor and project management.  • Administer a Corporate Active Directory 2003/2008 Infrastructure: deploy and configured Group Policies, Set up Organizational Units, created and modify user accounts.  • Administer the email environment which included 2010 clustered Exchange servers, an Enterprise Blackberry Server, and a McAfee anti-spam gateway servers.  • Maintained our VMWare infrastructure which included 2 VM Hosts and over a hundred virtual machines.  • Provided Tier III Technical Support - Diagnose and promptly resolve all escalated user issues the arise between our main office in the US, China and India.  • Coached and Mentored Helpdesk staff – Provided technical guidance and training to Helpdesk Administrators and PC Support Technicians as required to improve the team’s ability to provide a resolution at first response, eliminating the need for escalations.    • Documentation – Created and maintained support documentation providing peers and users with a repository of technical “how to” documentation. I was also tasked with giving oral presentations on some of the documentation that I had created to our entire company including our executive team. Systems Support Specialist Sajoma Music Center - Lawrence, MA 2003 to 2007 • Provide administrative support for the day to day operation of the IT Support Center   • Customer Support including blackberry support, RSA, WebEx, go-to-assist, Iphone. Maintain knowledge of the principles, methods, and techniques used in information system troubleshooting and support. Maintain knowledge of related hardware and software.   • Answer Customer Support Questions.  • Resolve Network Related Issues (Internet Connectivity, Printers, and Resource).  • Monitor and respond to hardware and software problems utilizing a variety of hardware and software testing tools and techniques.  • Install and configure applications software and related hardware (such as desktops, and related peripherals like printers, scanners, drives, monitors and video teleconferencing hardware).  • Perform hardware evaluations and make recommendations based on evaluations.  • Ensure Service Level Agreement (SLA) scores are being met in all areas.  • Assist with tier two escalations of trouble tickets.  • Provide guidance and work leadership to less-experienced technicians. Education BFA in Graphic Designs and Adverstising University of Massachusetts at Lowell - Lowell, MA 2005 Bachelors of Science in Software Engineering/IT University of Massachusetts at Lowell - Lowell, MA Skills · Microsoft Client Operating Systems: 2000 Professional, XP Professional, Vista, Windows 7, Microsoft Server Operating Systems: 2000 Server, 2003 Server, 2008 Server, VMWare ESX server, Microsoft Exchange 2003 and 2010, Active Directory 2003, 2008, DHCP, Clustering, DNS, Dell KACE, McAfee Spam Filter, Postini Spam Filter, Everdream, Dell Desktop Management, BlackBerry Enterprise Sever, SQL 2005, 2008, Windows Sysprep, Symantec Anti-Virus Server and Backup Exec Recovery, Phone VoIP Interaction Intelligence, Shoretel VoIP, Ingate SIParator, ProLaw, Immigration Tracker, Worldox, FileMaker Pro, Unix RedHat, Ubuntu, SolarWinds, Spiceworks, Office 365, Untangle, EMC Cloud Array, NetApp, Dell Modular Array, AirWatch, Proofpoint Essentials, LAMP, OSSIM, OS Ticket, PHP., Veeam (2 years), System Administrator, Linux, Vmware Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/jeffrey-ferrand/34/65a/220/