Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Lake Arrowhead, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator Professional Bureau of Collections - Greenwood Village, CO March 2018 to January 2019 Responsible for corporate backups using VEEAM, resolve issue with Trend Micro Anti-Virus. Administer client accounts in Active Directory. Daily duties include working the issues identified by Tenable security scans.  Document processes and changes to processes to meet the Dept. of Education requirements. Customer Service Technician Envysion - Superior, CO March 2017 to January 2018 Responsible for resolving issues with client video surveillance and video recording systems. Working from ticket system to identify issues and then resolve the issue remotely or by working with the client on site. Remote work being done using Linux tools and scripts following prescribed procedures. ITOC System Administrator Presilient Worldwide - Broomfield, CO March 2016 to March 2017 Responsible for incident tracking, ticket creation and management, while providing customer with updates. Duties include remotely monitor, manage, configure and troubleshoot the infrastructures. These infrastructures reside in public and private data centers throughout the US, Hong Kong, Bermuda and Europe. Help Desk Support Crescent Solutions - Las Vegas, NV May 2015 to September 2015 Desktop refresh for the Wynn. Process involved Identifying workstations and software installed on them, replacing existing workstation with upgraded workstation and reinstall the client applications. College Prep school; provided desk side support in classroom maintaining multi-platform laptops and desktop. Data Center Technician Teksystems - Seattle, WA November 2013 to February 2014 Service and maintain Dell servers in Microsoft lab and cloud infrastructure. Troubleshoot and repair live servers utilizing Dell troubleshooting practices. Systems Administrator Pacific Iron & Metal - Seattle, WA September 2011 to March 2013 Administered corporate infrastructure and clients including POS desktops at remote locations and WAN connections to the corporate office. Responsible for installation/configuration, operation, and maintenance of systems hardware and software and related infrastructure for core businesses.  • Documented Corporate infrastructure • Investigated and resolved network bottle neck  • Created procedure for documenting IT assets • Streamline 3rd party software support Data Center Technician Robert Half Technologies - Seattle, WA October 2010 to March 2011 Provide tier 2 support for Russell Investments data center. Daily break/fix activities included resolve network issues and hardware failures. Lab Engineer at Microsoft Seimens - Issaquah, WA June 2006 to September 2009 Lab Engineer, Data Center Systems Analyst, Datacenter responsibilities encompass tier 2,3 troubleshooting and repair of client, server, and network hardware, also perform server hardware configuration changes, moves, re-homes and decommissions. Tracking and monitoring of existing and new hardware, along with break/fix parts from the different vendors. Install hardware updates as required by the manufacturers.    • Worked with the hardware manufacturers in support of their latest hardware being placed in the Lab Data centers • Create the standards documents for the new equipment in the datacenters  • Assisted with the design, development and deployment of the new Data center and labs that meet Green requirements  • Maintain servers and SANs per prescribed processes and provide failure analysis to clients on live production servers    • Track Partner Product Directions and track Microsoft (and industry) Technology Trends and Requirements • Support SAN team in the daily maintenance of the SAN's Desktop Analyst CitiGroup - Las Vegas, NV March 2004 to May 2006 Day-to-day technical support for PC workstations and local area network including: installation, optimization, and troubleshooting of PC hardware, network components, and office automation applications. Assist in configuration planning and selecting appropriate hardware and software for developing business requirements.  • Supported 1500 + client workstations across 4 different departments, including network attached printers • Developed and deployed hardware layout for training department  • On Call support for the administration team to troubleshoot and resolve issues with servers after hours • Developed and implemented technical refresh of client work stations Desktop support Site Lead Versalign - Wilmington, DE October 2002 to April 2004 BankOne/Chase Card Services support and maintain client workstations, servers, network hardware and manage tape backups. Resolve client's issues at the workstation or through remote desktop.  • Provided data metrics on enterprise performance; identifying gaps in meeting SLA goals • Developed, designed, and maintained internal web page using Dreamweaver MX  • Participated in weekly site lead meetings to improve site performance • Worked with 3rd party vendor to streamline conflicts with hardware and business software    Shoreline Community College Microsoft Certified Systems Engineering, A+ Training  North Seattle Community College General Studies  Dell and Compaq Server training  DeVry University Associate of Science Electrical Engineering