Systems Administrator (Lead) <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Lead) IT Manager Kyle, TX Work Experience Systems Administrator (Lead) NBU - New Braunfels, TX February 2019 to Present Primary source for technical support, system design, configuration and administration of Active Directory, Office 365, VMware, VPN, WAP for all NBU employees (+500). Research and recommend innovative solutions for server hardware/software and virtual technology.  1. Install, configure, optimize and manage VMware virtualization environment (vSphere, ESXi)  2. Diagnose and troubleshoot problems with virtual environment (Windows 2012/2016, Linux).   3. Perform workload migrations using VMware native features (Vmotion). Setup and administer SAN storage solutions (Dell Compellent).  4. Develops and maintains IT procedures for software/hardware acquisitions, licensing, disaster recovery and change management.   5. Manage all upgrade projects, providing status updates to all stakeholders.   6. Manage and support corporate e-mail system (MS Exchange 2013). Senior Systems Administrator DCS - Accenture - Austin, TX November 2018 to February 2019 Evaluated, configured and tested new systems in lab and production environments. Documented and maintained all IT procedures.  • Built and configured Windows Server 2012/2016 configurations to customer specifications in AWS and Azure environments.  • Deployed, upgraded and managed new virtual servers and storage arrays in VMware environment.  • Administered Active Directory (user accounts, computer accounts, security and distribution groups, group policies, password resets). Set up and maintained FIM user accounts for web portal access.  • Managed IIS configuration. Created and maintained self-signed certificates. Systems Engineer Tech Zone - Austin, TX November 2017 to August 2018 Assessed existing infrastructure, recommended and delivered technical services to SMB clients. Provided escalation support for other members of small technical team; worked with management to mentor and optimize effectiveness of support team.  • Set up, configured, and upgraded Windows Server 2008/2012/2016 (virtual and physical).  • Managed Active Directory user/computer accounts and group policies. Administered, managed and supported Office 365. Installed and supported firewall/routers (Cisco Meraki). Configured rules, NATs, VLANs, VPNs (site-to-site). Systems Administrator Kennedy Wilson - Austin, TX October 2013 to September 2017 Provided network, server and desktop support for 120 + users. Developed IT Standard Operating Procedures for onboarding/off boarding users, IT purchase requests and provisioning/implementing new IT equipment.  • Managed and supported Windows 7/8/10, MS Server 2008R2, 2012R2, Exchange, VMware, Cisco/Avaya switches, routers and wireless AP's. Setup and maintained Active Directory user and computer accounts.  • Office 365 conversion project manager for all southwest region users.  • Project manager for 10 office moves. Responsible for designing schedules, assessing risks, recruiting and monitoring team members and sub-contractors, budgeting and tracking progress. Completed all moves on time and at least 10% under budget.  • Leveraged application deployment and patch management using SCCM. Senior Desktop Engineer SecureNet, LLC - Austin, TX July 2012 to October 2013 Provided system and network support for 100 + users by responding to all helpdesk requests. Procured and configured all new computer systems.  • Supervised one full-time employee. Monitored employee's work performance per company guidelines; utilized SalesForce to assess trends based on customer calls, issues and queries.  • Installed and configured WDS server (Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows PE 3.0). Created company-standard image(s) for desktop and server.  • Coordinated and conducted interviews for all new NOC technicians.  • Leveraged SCCM for patch management and software distribution. Network Specialist V - Lead Technician Texas Department of Rural Affairs - Austin, TX January 2009 to June 2012 Established and documented new IT policies. Evaluated network equipment, management tools, personal computer hardware and software needs and made recommendations on acquisitions and configurations.  • Managed network security, system and user accounts in an Active Directory environment (MS Windows 2003/2008 Server) for 50 + users.  • Managed Symantec Backup Exec system and polices.  • Planned and set up 3 new remote offices; managed telecommunication and data SLA's. IT Manager PTV Datasource - San Marcos, TX October 2007 to December 2008 Held comprehensive responsibilities to configure and administer network infrastructure for 150+ Windows workstations across two data centers that supported 120 employees. Managed all Active Directory accounts.  • Supervised one direct report in all daily operations, system maintenance and general troubleshooting techniques. Trained and motivated employee to meet or exceed customer service expectations.  • Successfully migrated Linux e-mail system (SendMail) to MS Exchange 2003.  • Set up and configured anti-spam/malware solution (SpamTitan). Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Systems Management in Computer Systems Management St. Edward's University - Austin, TX