Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Silver Spring, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator HumanTouch LLC - White Oak, MD May 2019 to Present ? Managing all incidents through ServiceNow ticketing system  ? Diagnosing and resolving incidents related to Local Area Network (LAN) accounts  ? Distribution list and mailbox management with Active Directory (ADUC), Office 365 PowerShell and Hybrid Exchange Admin Center  ? Configure personal network shares through Windows Server  ? Print server support management  ? Maintain LAN account security compliance through ADUC and PowerShell script automation Tier 2 Help Desk Technician HumanTouch LLC - White Oak, MD August 2018 to April 2019 ? Managing all incidents through ServiceNow ticketing system  ? Diagnosing and resolving software issues related to Office 365  ? Diagnosing hardware related incidents on Dell laptops and tablets  ? Configure and manage iOS, Android devices with XenMobile  ? Provide support for VPN connectivity related incidents with Cisco AnyConnect  ? Manage LAN accounts and computers with Active Directory  ? Managing encryption configurations with local McAfee clients and McAfee EPO Server  ? Provide basic network troubleshooting for loss of network access Tier 2 Systems Support The Midtown Group - Reston, VA January 2018 to May 2018 ? Manage all incidents through 8x8 ticketing system  ? Manage user and student accounts through AIR's proprietary database infrastructure, TIDE (Test Information Distribution Engine)  ? Provide remote technical support for online testing of Secure Browser and Windows10 Take-A-Test App  ? Maintaining AIR’s internal systems with spot quality assurance checks while emulating user roles  ? Managing Chrome OS devices with the Google Admin Console  ? Provided over-the phone network troubleshooting in accordance with AIR’s best practices with schools and districts across the continental U.S. Help Desk Technician Symposit - FDA - White Oak, MD March 2017 to January 2018 ? Managing all incidents through ServiceNow ticketing system  ? Diagnosing and resolving software issues related to Office 365  ? Running hardware diagnostics for Windows and Mac machines  ? Configure and manage iOS, Android and BlackBerry devices with XenMobile  ? Provide support for VPN connectivity related incidents with Cisco AnyConnect  ? Manage LAN accounts, computers and printers with Active Directory  ? Managing encryption configurations with Checkpoint and McAfee QA Tester Bethesda Softworks - Rockville, MD February 2016 to November 2016 ? Rigorous testing of company's eCommerce by going through every possible purchasing scenario  ? Testing of Bethesda online user account creation and management  ? Testing of Bethesda online user forums  ? Play-testing Triple AAA titles due for official launch  ? Credited in The Elder Scrolls: Legends and Dishonored 2 Mobile Teacher C3 Cyber Club - Ashburn, VA July 2015 to December 2015 ? Traveling to different schools teaching K-9 students about game design fundamentals, animation and basic Minecraft programming  ? Step-by-step training in 3D animation and game design software Teaching Assistant / Instructor Potomac Arts Academy & Mason Game And Technology Institute - Fairfax, VA June 2014 to August 2014 Teaching students how to model, texture animate and integrate characters in the unity game engine. Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Computer Game Design George Mason University - Fairfax, VA 2014 Skills Photography (6 years), Quality Assurance (1 year), Microsoft Office (8 years), Android OS (6 years), IOS (7 years), OS X (6 years), Windows (10+ years), It Specialist (2 years), Desktop Support (2 years), Information Technology (2 years), Help Desk (2 years), Comptia (3 years), Secret Clearance Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified November 2019 Microsoft Office Specialist