Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Charter Communications Charlotte, NC Work Experience Systems Administrator Charter Communications February 2019 to Present Managing application servers ensuring availability(DR)  ? Manage file servers(NFS and CIFS/SMB)  ? Usage of Varonis for file-level security  ? Manage corporate AD environment  ? Manage SAN fabric  ? Creation and amendment of scripts using Powershell and Python Technical Support Analyst Duke Energy January 2018 to February 2019 Providing first-tier, technical support & problem-solving management to end  users on issues of computer operations, including installations, setup, error  messages and application use.  ? Resolved and escalated tickets into Remedy Ticketing System.  ? Resolving issues with MS Office 2013, 2016 Applications.  ? Assisting users with Windows 7 and Windows 10 Virtual Machines, Citrix, and  VPN issues. Managing Active Directory user, group and computer accounts.  ? Assisting end-users with issues with networking technologies and protocols such as IP addressing, DNS, DHCP, and VPN client configuration.  ? Supported mobile devices through AirWatch console Software Support Specialist Avast Software December 2016 to November 2017 Cooperate with other members of the technical support team and sales  engineers to identify bugs and report issues using internal systems and policies.  ? Troubleshoot and serve as consultant for software Anti-Virus software suite  ? Consult on-line web tool, database, manuals, or internal resources for information on resolution procedures. Possess the ability to recognize when escalation is  necessary.  ? Remain current on new developments and changes through ongoing circular,  e-mail, and manual review. Attend training updates as required. Desktop Support Technician HCL November 2015 to July 2016 Provide technical and network problem resolution to end-user by performing a  question diagnosis while guiding users through step-by-step solutions.  ? Solutions include, but are not limited to, resolving username and password  problems using AD uninstalling/reinstalling basic software applications, verifying  proper hardware and software set up, power cycling equipment, assisting with navigating around application menus and troubleshooting email issues. NOC Technician American Tower Corporation May 2013 to October 2015 Provide technical and networking related resolutions to end-users and Field  Technicians by performing a question diagnosis while guiding users through step-by-step solutions.  ? Solutions include, but are not limited to, resolving username and password  problems using AD uninstalling/reinstalling software applications, verifying proper  hardware and software set up, Network triage and configuration  ? Open trouble tickets, perform initial triage and provide break/fix action to resolve  network events and issues reported via alarming tools or by customers. Perform  duties that involve following MOPS (Methods of Procedures) and technical job  aides.  ? Respond to network activities as required, which includes supporting SLA  commitments between network operations and internal/external customers.  Manage incident, problem, and change tickets in accordance with ATC's NOC  change management guidelines and procedures. Resolved customer issues by creating and escalating trouble tickets in Service Now ticketing system. Education Associate in Networking Technology Central Piedmont Community College 2018 Skills NOC (2 years), TECHNICAL SUPPORT (2 years), REMEDY (1 year), AND SALES (Less than 1 year), SALES (Less than 1 year), ANSWERING (Less than 1 year), LOGGING (Less than 1 year), ORGANIZATIONAL SKILLS (Less than 1 year), TESTING (Less than 1 year), PYTHON (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Systems Knowledge:  Python, Windows 7, Windows 10, Linux, VMWare, Varonis, Nasuni    Additional Qualifications:  • Strong organizational skills with proven ability to accomplish multiple tasks through  effective prioritization of duties in a fast-paced environment  • Ability to work under pressure demonstrate strong analytical and decision-making  skills  • Great communication and professionalism working with end-users  • NOC experience in a centralized repair/troubleshooting/testing environment that  included answering requests, logging events in a ticketing system, and providing  technical support and repair coordination  • Understanding of network technologies and server functions  • Work closely with team members and sales engineers to identify bugs and report  issues using internal systems and policies.  • Used variety of remote tools and ticketing systems and CRMs (Remedy,  Service-Now and Salesforce)  • Ability to create and amend scripts using Powershell and Python