Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Topeka, KS Customer service, and teamwork oriented individual, seeking career in the Computer Technology field. Currently have approximately 9 years of professional experience with maintaining/troubleshooting computer systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Kansas Joint Forces Headquarters - Topeka, KS October 2017 to Present -Tier III/ Systems Administration  ? Built/maintained physical/virtual network servers with the Windows Server 2012 and 2012R2 operating systems  ? Created virtual machines from templates using the VMWare console  ? Assisted with preparing for the organization's IT Security inspection in February  ? Created run book documents with information gathered from servers from running various PowerShell scripts.  ? Scanned servers for security vulnerabilities, using the Defense Information Systems Agency's Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP) Compliance Checker, and reported to the Systems Administrators Supervisor on the findings from the scans. Kansas Joint Forces Headquarters Help Desk Technician KS Air National Guard October 2011 to Present Currently a MSgt in the KS Air National Guard.  ? Serve as the Communications Point of Contact for the employees of the KS Air National Guard, during drill weekends.  ? Performs regular maintenance and troubleshooting of any and all computer/server systems on the KS National Guard network.  ? Served 12 months as the KS Joint Forces Headquarters - Air (JFHQKS-Air) 1st Sgt  • Contributed to manning numbers never falling below 93%  • Used various types of batch files, and PowerShell scripts to aid in performing my duties in my Help Desk role. Dynamic Computer Solutions On-Site Technician/Project Engineer May 2017 to October 2017 • Primary technician for any service a client requests an on-site technician for, with the exception of projects  • Make outgoing calls for existing Service Requests  • Troubleshoot and resolve computer issues remotely with remote software over the phone  • Experienced with Windows XP/Vista/7/10 operating systems, HEAT ticketing software, MS Office 2003/2007, MS Exchange 2003, MS Server 2008/2012/2012R2/2016, Active Directory Users & Computers  • Advise customers on software and hardware that would best fit their specific needs  • Used various types of batch files, reg. merge, VB, and PowerShell scripts to aid in performing my duties in my Project Engineer role  • Built, maintained servers for customers of DCS.  • Migrated customers from on-premises Exchange servers and Active Directory, to O365  • Added and maintained users in their O365 environments Technical Engineer Payless Shoe Source Corporate October 2015 to March 2017 2 - Server    ? Maintained the System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) servers (automation servers) and their databases  • Maintained over 20,000 (Retail and Corporate) computer clients, using SCCM (Windows Updates, software deployments/removal  • Implemented SCCM as a deployment option in our Retail environment, which primarily uses SQL tasks to deploy software. This contributed to going from a 70% success rate for software deployments, to a 90% + rate.  • Consistently maintained 95% + software updates compliance level while deploying Windows operating system updates using WSUS integrated with SCCM  • Operating Systems include: Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows Server 2008/2012  ? Joined and re-joined computers to the domain  ? Assisted/trained fellow technicians with computer issues that they may not know how to resolve  • Experience with SQL 2008/2012, Office 365, MS Office 2013, multiple custom Payless applications  ? Built and maintain virtual machines with VMWare  ? Experienced in imaging computers either on site, with the software, or remotely via PXE boot (with SCCM)  ? Proficient in the Enterprise Build process  ? Member of the team that maintains Symantec Endpoint Protection (SEP) database, and distribute new definitions to the SEP clients throughout the Payless Retail environment.  • Used various types of batch files, reg. merge, VB, and PowerShell scripts to aid in performing my duties in my Endpoint Engineer role Tier III Help Desk Technician Kansas Joint Forces Headquarters Help Desk Support July 2010 to October 2015 Built/maintained network servers  ? Built/maintained the System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) server (automation server) and its database  ? Built/maintained enterprise computer image with SCCM  ? POC for all software deployments via SCCM  • Used various types of scripts while creating software deployments  ? Proficient in the Enterprise Build process  • My changes in the enterprise build contributed to an approximate 40% reduction in phone calls to the Help Desk  ? Imaged new computers and re-imaging client computers that need it  • Performed mass Windows Vista - Windows 7 upgrade of approximately 800+ machines, remotely, and with zero profile data loss  ? Answered the Help Desk call queue and performed Help Desk duties, such as: creating service requests, unlocked Active Directory accounts, joining computers to the domain, troubleshooting computers over the phone, while remoted onto workstations, and if the computers are brought on site for maintenance  • Experienced with Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7 operating systems, HEAT ticketing software, MS Office 2007/2010, Blackberry Enterprise Server, MS Server 2003/2008/2012  ? Assisted/trained fellow technicians with computer issues that they may not know how to resolve  ? Served as the POC for any and all VIPs that are employed, or visiting, and need technical assistance  • Used various types of batch files, reg. merge, VB, and PowerShell scripts to aid in performing my duties in my Tier III and Systems Administration roles Help Desk Technician Kansas Joint Forces Headquarters Help Desk Support March 2009 to July 2010 Answered the Help Desk call queue, created service request using the "HEAT" ticketing system, unlocked Active Directory accounts, joined computers to the domain, troubleshot computers over the phone, while remoted onto workstations, and if the computers were brought on site for maintenance  • Analyzed information given to better troubleshoot computer issues  * Worked to resolve all service requests within 15-45 minutes after creation  • Organized Help Desk tickets from maximum to minimal importance  • Performed preventive computer maintenance (i.e. Disk Defragmenter, Disk Cleanup, etc.)  • Researched computer software and hardware issues daily  • Used various types of batch files and logon scripts to aid in the users' computing experience  • Maintain/troubleshot servers installed with MS Server 2003/2008 R2. Dynamic Computer Solutions Helpdesk Technician October 2008 to March 2009 Accomplished antivirus management and virus removal regularly  • Installed anti-virus management software onto servers, then, from the server, used the management console to install anti-virus software onto workstations in that particular network  ? Answered the Help Desk phone line  • Created Service Requests for computer issues  ? Made outgoing calls for existing Service Requests  • Troubleshot and resolved computer issues remotely with remote software over the phone, and when a customer brought their computer to the Tech Bench area  • Installed software onto computers remotely, that were stored on that customer's server, or stored on my computer  • Experienced with Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7 operating systems, HEAT ticketing software, MS Office 2003/2007, MS Exchange 2003, MS Server 2003/2008, Active Directory Users & Computers  ? Monitored various networks daily, for outages  ? Resolved problems on Exchange servers  ? Advised customers on software and hardware that would best fit their specific needs Education Wichita Technical Institute Mobile Site - Topeka, KS May 2014 Thomas N. Barnes Center for Enlisted Education December 2013 Information Management Technical School - Biloxi, MS April 2008 to June 2008 Aircraft Armament Systems Technical School - Wichita Falls, TX September 1999 to January 2000 High School Diploma Highland Park High School - Topeka, KS 1999 Diploma in McGhee Tyson ANGB Noncommissioned Officer Academy Skills Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator