Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - LEIDOS INC Alexandria, VA Work Experience Systems Administrator LEIDOS INC - Fairfax, VA September 2018 to Present Create and maintain user accounts, security groups, group policies, distribution lists, and workflows through systems administration using security tools in Active Directory, Active Roles Server, ESD, DRA and DEPO.  Carry out several duties which involved accounts modification, user access, permissions grants, and network shares development.  * Conduct troubleshooting to resolve network issues, broadband connections, Remote Access issues, and email messaging.  * Resolve software and hardware issues in laptops, desktop computers, and printers.  * Assist in resolving technical issues on Enterprise Networks to ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability.  * Record all service and work details into Remedy ticketing systems  * Provide Lead technical support to Department of Defense teams in COOP exercises. Systems Administrator ECS Federal - Fairfax, VA December 2016 to September 2018 * Observe strict compliance with IT Service Management principles in ensuring highest degree of customer service.  * Risk assessment and mitigation utilizing NIST 800-53 rev 4 security controls.  * Create and maintain user accounts, security groups, group policies, distribution lists, and workflows through systems administration using security tools in Active Directory, Active Roles Server (ARS), ESD and DRA.  * Conduct troubleshooting to resolve network issues, involving broadband connections, Remote Access issues, and email messaging.  * Resolve software and hardware issues in laptops, desktop computers, and printers  * Assist in resolving technical issues on Network systems to ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability.  * Record all service and work details into Remedy ticketing systems.  * Provide technical support to Department of Defense teams in COOP exercises. IT Service Analyst CACI International - Washington, DC March 2016 to December 2016 * Made an effective use of systems administration and security tools with regard to the development and maintenance of user accounts.  * Responsible as Information Technology point of contact for IT service phone calls, emails, and tickets from customers and providing technical support in troubleshooting and fixing all IT issues.  * Accountable in registering requests and resolutions through JIRA ticketing systems.  * Performed troubleshooting to identify and resolve network issues such as broadband connections, Remote Access issues, and email messaging  * Strictly adhered to IT Service Management principles in ensuring and maintaining highest degree of customer service.  * Coordinated with Tier3 Infrastructure support teams regarding escalation of unresolved problems  * Assumed responsibility in conducting follow-up on all IT issues on behalf of customers to provide on-time updates Computer Operations Technician II Honeywell IT Solutions, Naval Base - Mechanicsburg, PA 2015 to 2016 * Responsible for installing software, proprietary applications and peripherals on computers  * Lead the installation of operating systems on classified Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPR) and Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPR), Desktop and Laptop computers at the Staging, Inventory and Logistics (SIL) computer laboratory at Naval Support Activity in Pennsylvania.  * Provided technical support in identifying and generating solutions to resolve all computer-related problems  * Conducted installation of updates, patches, and quality assurance checks with regard to all computers. Systems Administrator Qbase LLC - York, PA 2012 to 2014 * Hardware and software support for Windows XP/7/10, Cisco routers/switches, CSU/DSU and communication circuits. Server administration and troubleshooting Windows 2008/2012.  * Used several mobile device management tools for the deployment of mobile devices including iPhones and Androids for users.  * Conducted assessments and testing of data processing systems, data encryption, and other security measures  * Ensured the protection of LAN/WAN networks and data by implementing security measures  * Designed and maintained user accounts, security groups, group policies, and distribution lists through systems administration using tools such as Active Directory and Active Roles Server (ARS)  * Rendered support for the life-cycle of complex IT projects in providing cutting-edge infrastructure to US Department of Homeland Security offices across Central Pennsylvania.  * Created and provided detailed incident reports for the regional IT Management Team. Education Diploma in Computer Technology in Computer Technology Computer Processing Institute - Paramus, NJ Project Management Certificate Penn State - York, PA Skills Active directory, Network administration, Technical support, Information assurance, Ios, Mitigation, Risk assessment, Windows 10, Windows 7, Novell, Hardware installation, System Admin, Linux, System Administrator Additional Information Performance-focused, goal-driven, and analytical professional with hands-on experience in information security management and Systems Administration. Well-versed in installing software and ensuring the security of computer networks and Applications. Recognized for strategic and proactive management approach and technical skills in identifying solutions and coordinating team efforts toward seamless and productive operations. Equipped with excellent communication and interpersonal aptitudes, capable of establishing work relationships with various professionals. Holding an active Federal Security clearance.    AREAS OF EXPERTISE    Risk Assessment and Mitigation Systems and Network Administration Technical Support  Information Assurance Cybersecurity Analysis Hardware Installation and Repair    Operating Systems: Windows Servers 2008/2012 Active Directory Novell Windows 7 Windows 10 IOS