Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II - Pacific Quality Health Helena, MT Work Experience Systems Administrator II Pacific Quality Health - Helena, MT March 2013 to Present Hired as a full-time systems administrator to manage and maintain a 40+ mixed server environment (Windows/Linux), ensuring 99.9% or better uptime. Evaluate, monitor and enhance IT infrastructure with an emphasis on availability, reliability, scalability, security, data confidentiality and system integrity.    Key Contributions:  • Ensured that all server hardware, operating systems, software and procedures aligned with organizational standards and strategic business plan.  • Revamped and redesigned a more robust and redundant corporate backup and recovery policy.  • Optimized system availability (averaging 99.95% uptime) and equipped company with scalable systems to support.  • Reduced datacenter energy and power consumption 50% by virtualizing aging servers.  • Acted as escalation point for troubleshooting advanced network/ system issues; consistently earned 100% issue-resolution scores by providing excellent service to internal and external customers.  • Setup a hybrid 0365 and azure migration of the current AD and exchange infrastructure.  • Trained employees across multiple departments on network operations including log-in procedures, network management software, permissions, printing issues, security and use of software.    * Systems Administrator* full-time systems administrator to manage and maintain exchange environment Blue Cross Blue Shield of Montana - Helena, MT January 2011 to March 2013 Helena, MT    Hired as a full-time systems administrator to manage and maintain exchange environment with 500 users.    Key Contributions:  • Directed the implementation and performance tuning of exchange 2007 cluster servers running on Windows server 2008 R2. Delivered a major improvement over the old architecture by moving the mailbox stores to the NetApp LUNs configured on SSD drives.  • Led in-house and consultant team in large-scales server upgrade for the email archiving and the spam/virus filter applications.  • Resolved a history of problematic network failure by troubleshooting LAN/WAN connections between Helena datacenter and Missoula co-location.  • Increased team productivity and automated repetitive tasks by using batch files, PowerShell, VBScript and WMI. Network Administrator Microscan System - Renton, WA 2007 to 2010 Helpdesk Specialist II Kent School District - Kent, WA 2006 to 2007 Network Engineer Parcom Internet Inc - Renton, WA 2003 to 2006 Education BS in Design and Management Western Governors University Skills Noc, Lan/wan, Data backup, Database, Database design, Security, Optimization, Network optimization, Lan, Organizational development, Mentoring, Training, Strong communication skills, Linux, System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin