Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Spring Hill, TN Accomplished IT professional with an exceptional track record looking to work full-time as a Systems Administrator. Very accustomed to working in a fast-paced environment that needs on-the-fly and accurate decision making with little-to-no supervision. Work Experience Systems Administrator Touchstone Medical Imaging - Franklin, TN April 2018 to Present • Group Policy/Active Directory creation and management.  • Setup and configured Chime system used with Skype integration for users to reach a Service Desk Specialist with a single click.  • VMware server creation and maintenance.  • Setup of KACE Systems Management Appliance for use as the Service Desk ticketing system.  • Monthly workstation and server patching utilizing KACE SMA.  • Head of software distribution and removal.  • Standardized Image creation and deployment for all workstations.  • Inventory and Asset management.  • Sophos Antivirus and Encryption deployment and management.  • Vulnerability mitigation using Tenable.io.  • Office 365 administration.  • Veeam/Carbonite backup and retention setup and monitoring. Service Desk Specialist Touchstone Medical Imaging - Franklin, TN May 2017 to April 2018 • Streamlined procedures for the Service Desk to better assist users and be the first point of contact on triaging all problems.  • Head of Procurement for all IT equipment and monitoring delivery and invoicing - Saved the company over $20,000/year by negotiating shipping and item cost from vendors.  • Answer, evaluate, and prioritize incoming telephone calls, voice mails, service desk tickets, and in-office requests for assistance from users.  • Traveled to out-of-state sites to assist with installations and troubleshooting. Premier Support Solutions Asurion - Nashville, TN June 2016 to May 2017 • Provided technical support for mobile carriers troubleshooting phone software, hardware, and networking issues.  • Used numerous tools to remotely login and assist with technical support on mobile devices and any system that can be connected to a mobile device.  • Supporting products across Windows, Android, Blackberry OS, Apple IOS, wireless technology - equipment and applications. Cook The Fairmont Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA October 2015 to May 2016 • Trained on Sauté, Wok, Fryer, and Garde Manger dishes for breakfast, lunch, and dinner service at Habitat Restaurant.  • Assisted with banquet prep, plating, and live action stations.  • Fast paced and large volume show kitchen. Cook The Fairmont Orchid, Kohala Coast, HI April 2014 to October 2015 • Trained on Sauté, Fryer, and Garde Manger dishes for lunch and dinner service at both Browns Beach House and Hale Kai restaurants.  • Successfully helped to roll out two full menu changes.  • Assisted with banquets as well as cafeteria preparations for over 500 covers.  • Fast paced with very limited room to maneuver.    Arricia Italian Trattoria & Bar at the Hotel at Auburn University, Auburn, AL Intern  Cook III:  • Daily preparation of all dinner service items.  • Banquet and large food quantity preparation.  • Fast paced and large volume show kitchen.    Century Restaurant and Bar at the Tutwiler, Birmingham, AL Intern  Line Cook:  • Daily preparation of all service items.  • Full comprehension of front and back of house operations.  • Proper opening and closing procedures, from temping food to sanitizing the kitchen nightly.  • Ronald McDonald House Charity Beer Dinner at Regions Field - 10 course dinner serving meals prepared by the Birmingham Originals restaurants and paired with all five Birmingham breweries. Nuclear Radiation Monitor Nucsafe - Knoxville, TN July 2010 to March 2013 • Monitored a minimum of twenty sites at a time, each with at least 5-8 radiation portals, for speed, gamma, and neutron alarms.  • Trained to interpret and classify gamma and neutron radiation alarms.  • Trained to properly handle a radioactive source to calibrate and test systems.  • Using VPN/VMware - Installed software and performed maintenance on each portal for each site as well as maintained over 300 individual radiation panels and electronics troubleshooting.  • Installed and monitored 30 IP based AXIS cameras.  • Assisted on-site personnel with troubleshooting and repairing network issues, hardware failure, and software glitches.  • International installation of 11 systems for Saudi Arabian Customs - including full wiring, building OTB hardware, and software training for foreign personnel. Contract Technician A-Plus Computer Services, Cordova - Knoxville, TN January 2007 to August 2010 • Lead technician on 7 site job configuring and installing POS equipment, servers, and routers. VPN configuration and monitoring for 6 branches to transmit data to main server. Trained employees on software and POS usage as well as running reports to track sales and hours worked.  • Preformed installation and repair contracts for Dell, HP, Y-12 National Security Complex, Oak Ridge National Lab, Agilent Technologies and the Knoxville Courthouse.  • Installation and setup of all Desktop/Laptop/Server models.  • Out of the box ATM programming, troubleshooting, and repair.  • HP, Lexmark, Cannon, Xerox, Ricoh and Dell Printer/Copier installation and repair  • Software maintenance and troubleshooting - including all Microsoft Office products, email programs, and QuickBooks.  • Virus and spy-ware removal using programs such as Spybot S&D, Adaware, Malwarebytes, HiJackThis, CWShredder, Norton, McAfee, Avast, and AVG Antivirus.  • Medication distribution, First-Aid, and CPR Certified.  • Dell and HP Certified Education Diploma in Culinary Arts Culinard, the Culinary Institute of Virginia College December 2013 Pellissippi State - Knoxville, TN August 2011 to August 2012 University of Alabama - Tuscaloosa, AL August 2002 to May 2005 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin, Microsoft Office / Office 365, Kace, Data Entry, Ordering