Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Warren, ME Work Experience Systems Administrator The O'Hara Corporation - Rockland, ME 2013 to 2019 • Implemented Ubiquity Air Max products for point to point and point to many points in Rockland Maine.  • Administered and maintained a Unifi wireless network compromising of internal, external meshed access points, and Unifi Switches  • Designed, installed and maintained a Unifi Video camera network at two physical locations in Rockland Maine.  • Collaborated with vendors to install a, VOIP Cloud Hosted PBX telephone system for offices in, Rockland, Maine, and Seattle, Washington.  • Proficient in premise cabling to include: shielded and unshielded Category 5e, Category 6, TIA/EIA-568 A and B standards, cross over cables, patch panels, rj45 modular connectors, and custom patch cables.  • Project Manager for an Owens and Corning single mode fiber optic back plane project to multiple buildings in Rockland, Maine.  • Designed, installed and maintained a Cisco Meraki Cloud controlled network to include: Security Appliances, Switches, Access Points and all facets of premise wiring on board five fishing vessels in Seattle, Washington.  • Deployed multiple Cisco sg300 and Catalyst 2960 series switches to include voice and data, vlans, port trunking, port mapping and routine maintenance via the Cisco Network Assistant and ssh command line.  • Managed the provisioning, maintenance and backups of, Polycom VVX 500's, 300's and Sound Station endpoints.  • Administered and maintained multiple vpn tunnels and remote gateways with WatchGuard Firebox products.  • Constructed, maintained, and deployed, a virtual server environment with VMWare ESXI, Vsphere Essentials comprising of multiple data stores and ISCSI target repositories.  • Proficient with Microsoft Visio, and Switch Port Mapper for creating detailed network documentation. Systems Administrator The Mid-Coast School of Technology - Rockland, ME 1999 to 2013 • Established and administered a Windows Domain Model  • Created a disaster recovery and business continuity plan  • Implemented a Network Security and Acceptable Internet Usage Policies  • Integrated Apple laptops from the Maine Laptop Technology Initiative  • Support and installation for the Tandberg Video Conferencing System and Cisco Jabber Instructor of Computer Technology The Mid-Coast School of Technology - Rockland, ME June 2000 to 2003 Developed and taught a curriculum for the CompTIA A Plus Certification Education Applied Vocational Technical Education V-Tech Training Center - Augusta, ME Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin