Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator I am proven experienced professional with over 15 years of professional sales and technical experience. I have history of working with complicated systems and networking gear in medium and large companies. My strengths are completing objectives ahead of schedule and under budget with as little down time as possible. Work Experience Systems Administrator Nextgen Healthcare Co - Nashville, TN July 2018 to July 2019 Tier II Engineer  • Provided administration and support for a wide variety IT products such as Checkpoint, Cisco Proximity, Mitel, Allworxs, Microsoft Exchange, Office 365, Active Directory and a lot more.  • Support daily IT needs such as security, networking and troubleshooting of application, server and network issues  • Work with DNS, DHCP, GPO's, Security Groups, Distribution List & Groups, and Service Accounts,  • Manage of 4000 users via Active Directory, Exchange and Office 365  • Maintain Hipaa Compliance and PHI information.  • Manage Apple products on an enterprise level.  • Work with AWS services to decrease the company's on premise cost.  • Manage over 13 Domains including Child Domains  • Work with Active Directory and AD Migration Tools.  • Support Tier 1 Tech  • Administer Windows Server 2012 and 2016.  • Use PowerShell to create distribution list for Hybrid Exchange Environment, to automate the process for cleaning up users in AD, to create resources in Office 365, and to install software via executables.  • Transitioning from Exchange on Premise to Exchange off Premise O365.  • Network Cutovers to Cisco 9300's  • Phone Cutovers from Allworx's to Mitel.  • Supported the migration of Window 7 to Windows 10 for Enterprise.  • VSphere VMware ESX 6.5 for managing storage.  • Solarwinds for network Monitoring. Field Service Technician III Compucom - Nashville, TN October 2017 to June 2018 • Worked with Cisco Proximity Severs, SCCM, Microsoft Software, IBM, DELL and other Hardware  • Managed an enterprise level inventory.  • Supported daily IT needs such as security, networking and dally trouble shooting.  • Supported over 700 clients and 5000 hardware and software devices.    Deskside Technician II  • Supported an enterprise IT environment  • Worked with Cisco Proximity Severs, SCCM, Microsoft Software, IBM, DELL and other Hardware  • Managed computers in SCCM, pushed out Images in SCCM, and provided application management with SCCM  • Managed an Enterprise level inventory.  • Supported daily IT needs such as security, networking and dally trouble shooting.  • Supported over 700 clients and 5000 hardware and software devices.  • Managed users with in Active Directory  • Covered 3 regional sites  • Create BOM's for needed projects. Field Network Technician Infrastructure Solutions LLC - Nashville, TN September 2016 to October 2017 • Worked with a variety of different clients from enterprises to small businesses.  • Helped upgrade a large company's wireless network with a multiple day wireless heat mapping project and help quoting.  • Managed Users with Active Directory  • Worked with Cisco switches and routers.  • Created VLAN's for different data paths.  • Provided desktop and helpdesk support for PC's and servers for various clients.  • EMR and EDI processing. Recruiting Manager Robert Half Technology - Nashville, TN October 2015 to September 2016 • Managed the Alabama, Kentucky and Tennessee territory for growing new business in an emerging market territory.  • Consulted with customers to give them the best possible solutions for their technical needs.  • Broke the office record for my division with the highest revenue in the history of my team.  • Maintained and average of 10 job orders per month between $10,000 and $30,000 per order.  • Worked with C-Level executives to strategically develop new staffing goals.  • Worked with Agile, Waterfall, and Scrum methodologies  • Worked with C-Level executives to solve company's technology needs from Managed Services, SOW's, .NET, SQL, Desktop Support, Cyber Security Experts, CISSP, Maximo, Help Desk, and other business needs. Senior Account Executive Robert Half Technology - Nashville, TN August 2015 to October 2015 • Managed the Alabama territory for growing new business in an emerging market territory.  • Called on prospects in the territory to grow annual revenue.  • Work with C-Level executives to strategically develop new staffing goals.  • Closed 5 deals in an emerging market resulting in over 500% of desired quota  • Helped companies implement the best technical solutions for their business needs. Technical Senior Business Development Manager Mavidea Technology Group - Nashville, TN March 2015 to August 2015 • Managed the Tennessee territory for growing new business in an emerging market territory.  • Tasked with strategically growing the market from the ground up including, acquiring new office space, prospecting for new clients, building a sales matrix plan and CRM selection.  • Worked with C-Level executives to strategically design new selling tactics for the company.  • Helped companies optimize their online presence with SEO technology and professional web services.  • Helped companies implement the best technical solutions for their business needs.  • Reached 140% of revenue quota. Technical Sales Engineer /Southeast Region Apex Systems - Nashville, TN October 2014 to December 2014 contract)  • Held a $750,000 gross profit quota for the project.  • Worked with HP, Cisco, Microsoft, EMC, DELL and other manufactures to help drive and implement product solutions for end users.  • Traveled to meet customer needs and drive sales activities.  • Conducted on-site services for enterprise customers to meet large scale technology solutions.  • Effectively used Quadrant Management to provide the best ROI on managing the company's and customer T&E. North American Pre-Sales and Post Sales Wireless Network Specialist Black Box Network Services North America - Nashville, TN May 2014 to August 2014 contract)  • Worked with HP, Cisco, Microsoft, EMC, DELL and other manufactures to help drive and implement product solutions for end users.  • Conducted on-site services for Enterprise customers to meet large scale technology solutions for both Pre-Sales and Post sales. 75% travel to customer sites.  • Managed North American projects worth a $7.5 million in gross revenue.  • Effectively used Quadrant Management to provide the best ROI on managing the company's and customer T&E.  • Worked as a Team Lead on a national project for a HIPPA client to roll out and reimage 8000 new PC's  • Obtained two new Certifications for Dell Sonic Wall and Dell Security Competency  • Configured Watchguard firewalls for a regional company  • Worked with a Fortune 50 customer with their Network Cutovers and Heat Maps.  • Helped upgrade a large company's wireless network with a multiple day wireless heat mapping project and helped quoting the project for pre-sales with Cisco AP's.  • Put together technical quotes for multiple customers in the Enterprise and Small Medium Businesses space, as a technical resource for presales.  • Implemented a new VoIP system for a small size business.  • Worked on an HP PC repair project to help generate revenue for our local branch by fixing PC's as a sub-contractor for HP.  • Sold and implemented a domain project in Server 2012 so that the client could run terminal services.  • Backed up a HIPPA client with Symantec and sold them a new implementation project for a new server.  • Managed network projects for over 175 global offices Asst. Network Administrator (contract) Ragan Smith and Associates - Nashville, TN January 2013 to March 2014 • Migrated Novell 6.5 (32bit) SCSI to Windows Server 2008R2 (64bit) Virtualization on to SAS storage  • Implemented a Palo Alto next generation application driven firewall for high security network protection.  • Managed SAN and NAS storage.  • Virtualized the servers for Linux, VSFTP and Windows7 with VMware ESX  • Created VLAN's for virtualizations  • Migrated Linux Sendmail to Exchange Office 365  • Managed Users with Active Directory  • Updated Cable Infrastructure from Cat3 to Cat6e 10gb Certified  • Migrated XP (32bit) to Windows 7  • Responsible for daily incremental backups and archive backups via LTO 3 Tapes with Symantec and Vice Versa  • Wrote Batch Files for enterprise and government business partners  • Conducted Disaster Recovery and Secure Data Destruction  • Segmented and secured the wireless network under budget and ahead of schedule.  • Secured the network for vulnerabilities  • Locked down the network through port and application management.  • Created backup programs for the satellite office.  • Implemented Office 365 and administered the Enterprise Lync, Exchange and SharePoint suite  • Developed SharePoint projects to increase productivity and work flow  • Managed daily triage  • Worked with SQL SSIS to pull reports and data management.  • Managed DNS, DHCP and Static aspects of the company's network  • Set up LogMeIn for VPN currently work with Microsoft with LogMeIn and internally for users  • Deployed over 1 TB of Autodesk software and programmed the settings for AutoCAD 2014  • Installed new APC battery backup and transformer.  • Implemented a new VoIP system company wide  • Conducted heat mapping with Air Magnet and Ekahau wireless mapping software. Regional Security and Networking Technical Sales Consultant Cadre Information Security - Nashville, TN October 2011 to November 2012 • Territory Southeast Region Accounts (TN, GA, AL, FL, LA, MS, SC, FL, TX, MO) that were less than $250 million in revenue.  • Consulted with customers and prospects for our security and networking services as a hunter in a growing territory.  • Certified in Blue Coat, Check Point, Juniper JNSA, Palo Alto, and RSA  • Grew my database of customers and prospects by 44 times  • Increased my customer base in our emerging market by 70% and took on seven more states by bringing new customers aboard  • Educated in PCI and Pen Audits  • Installed solutions and educated customer on networking and security  • Responsible for 20 phone calls a day and on site meetings to customers to consult on security and networking projects.  • Worked with vendors to provide support for hardware and software trouble shooting for end users.  • Consulted with customers on VoIP rollout projects, in addition to providing mobile solutions.  • This was a hunter regional sales role. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Science and Electronics Engineering Technology Austin Peay State University - Clarksville, TN Bachelor of Arts in Spanish DePaul University - Chicago, IL Skills Active Directory (4 years), Exchange (2 years), networking (3 years), VoIP (2 years), wireless (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    * Windows OS  * Active Directory  * Exchange  * IIS  * SSCM  * MS SQL Server 2005/2008  * Windows 2003/2008 Server  * Office 365 Administrator  * VMware  * Pen Testing  * PCI Compliancy  * Wireless Encryption  * SAN & NAS Storage  * WAN Optimization  * Windows Servers  * Linux Servers  * Server Clusters  * Subnetting  * VLAN's  * Air Magnet  * Hyper V  * CCTV  * Access Control  * SAS  * SCCM    * Networking  * AirMagnet  * Ekahau  * Trouble Shooting  * Avaya IP Office  * Apple OS  * VoIP  * Programming in Linux  * Access  * Disaster Recovery  * Microsoft Enterprise Licensing  * Switches  * Routers  * PC Maintenance  * Virus Removal  * Imaging (Server and Desktop)  * Firewalls (Watchguard, Sonic Wall, Barracuda, Checkpoint, Palo Alto, Source Fire and IronPort)  * Wireless Encryption  * Printer Maintenance  * OS Upgrades or Cost Evaluation for Corporate Printing Downgrades  * Break-Fix  * Deployment Experience  * License Compliancy  * Document Management  * IMO