Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Herr Foods Inc Middletown, DE Seeking opportunity to utilize my professional experience and skills as a medium business Systems Administrator. Thus, establishing a career path in company with room for growth. Work Experience Systems Administrator Herr Foods Inc - Nottingham, PA 2017 to Present Projects:  ·        Developed and implemented system upgrades across the company for network system upgrades for both hardware and software.  ·        Updated real time system security software for mobile and remote access for all users  ·        Developed system qualification test plans for production devices  Job Responsibilities:     •       MS O365 Admin (Tenant Admin, O365 User Adoption, Training and Support)  •       Network Admin (Cisco Switches, Cisco WAP, LAN, WAN, SDWAN)  •       Mobile Device Management Admin (MaaS360, MS Intune, IOS, Android)  •       Mobile Application Management Admin  •       VPN Admin Support of real time system data security (RSA, Cisco AnyConnect, MS Authenticator)  •       Citrix Server/User Session Support (Citrix Director, Citrix Receiver, XenApp 7.6)  •       Enterprise Server Admin (backup server, DC Server, File and Print Server)  Escalation Contact Support for Help Desk Team Technical Support Engineer I TA Instruments 2011 to 2017 Job Responsibilities:  • Provided support (diagnosis/troubleshooting) via phone or email to Field Service Representatives, Technical Representatives, Territory Managers, & Applications Support Engineers who are experiencing complex instrument and/or software problems.  • Provided support (diagnosis and troubleshooting) directly to customers/users via phone and/or email when problems have escalated to a higher degree of complexity or when accepting overflow of calls from Service Hotline.  • Provided support (diagnosis and troubleshooting) via phone and/or email to Subsidiary and Representative Service Organizations worldwide.  • Traveled domestically and internationally to provide support and training to all service organizations.  • Provided basic and advanced service training to Field Service Representatives worldwide. Prepare and maintain necessary training materials.  • Reported design, reliability and maintenance problems or bugs to Design Engineering/Software Engineering through direct communication/interaction or Corrective Action Request (CAR) system.  • Followed up with Design Engineering, Software Engineering, and Manufacturing on product quality issues.  • Represented Service Department at general quality meetings and/or projects that require approval for shipment (AFS). Prepare all required reports and documentation. May also participate in any required product testing.  • Created and distributed Technical Bulletins, with important Service information, to a worldwide distribution.  • Created and maintained service manuals and procedures for supported instrumentation.  • Prepared and Maintained required ISO service procedures. Electro-Mechanical Assembler Testing Machines Inc 2010 to 2011 Job Responsibilities:  • Assembled a variety of electronic, electro-mechanical and mechanical instruments and subassemblies  • Performed test and calibration on finished instruments.  • Troubleshooted and repaired subassemblies and assembled instruments. Education B.S in Computer and Network Security Wilmington University - New Castle, DE May 2013 A.A.S in Electronics and Computer Engineering Technology in Electronics and Computer Engineering Technology Delaware Technical Community College - Newark, DE May 2010 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin