Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Analyst - Sarasota County Tax Collector Sarasota, FL Experienced IT professional motivated to learn new technologies, share knowledge, and become a valuable asset of an enterprise-class IT team. Work Experience Systems Administrator Sarasota County Tax Collector - Sarasota, FL 2012 to Present As the Lead Systems Administrator, I am responsible for the day-to-day operation of a 40+ virtualized (VMware) mixed server environment (Windows//Linux), ensuring 99.9% uptime. I evaluate, monitor and enhance IT infrastructure with an emphasis on availability, reliability, scalability, security, data confidentiality and system integrity. I report to the IT Director, providing weekly updates on projects, upgrades, and issues. I am considered the on-site SME for VMware vSphere, Active Directory, Group Policy, and various other technologies where I am responsible for resolving complex issues that may arise.     Key Contributions:  • Established automated server routines, system performance optimization, installing upgrades/patches, establishing system monitoring and maintaining security protocols.  • Ensured that all server hardware, operating systems, software and procedures aligned with organizational standards and strategic business plan.  • Optimized system availability (averaging 99.9% uptime) and equipped company with scalable systems to support business growth.  • Increased team productivity and automated repetitive tasks by using batch files, PowerShell, and VBScript.  • Acted as escalation point for troubleshooting advanced network/ systems issues.    Key Projects:  • Implemented pro-active monitoring systems and techniques to shift our department's operational strategy to become more offensive. This has resulted in less downtime, faster response, and better overall customer satisfaction.  • Member of the project team responsible for replacing an aging Tax Collection system, responsible for collecting an estimated annual tax roll of nearly $900 million for Sarasota County.   • Responsible for planning and executing the Operating System upgrades for 30+ Servers that reached or are nearing Operating System EOL dates.   • Replaced an aging storage system, quadrupling our network storage capacity and increasing performance. Project came in 30% under budget and delivered on-time.   • Designed and Implemented a Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) meeting and exceeding our agency RPO and RTO goals. This project included setting up a DR site capable of running all critical operations in the event of a Datacenter outage.  • Responsible for replacing all aging server, network, and workstation hardware on a 5 year hardware refresh rotation. Server Support Technician II / Support & Sales Supervisor HostDime Web Hosting - Orlando, FL 2007 to 2012 • Supervised a team of up to 10 technicians per shift and assisted with call and ticket escalations  • Provided Tier 1/2 technical support to customers via their helpdesk system, live chat, or over the phone.  • Technical support for web hosting services included: Apache/IIS/ngnix Web Servers, Exim and Mailenable Email servers, FTP servers, MySQL and MSSQL servers, Virtual Machines and Physical servers with both Windows and Linux OS's  • Assist with sales questions, account upgrades and downgrades, and additional services such as SSL Certificates and   • Document technical issues and contribute to the company knowledgebase to assist other techs and customers in the future  • Participated in Datacenter staff rotations, which included: off-hour server maintenance, hardware upgrades, system migrations, and remodeling. Education MS in Computer Engineering Florida International University - Miami, FL 2015 to 2016 BS in Information Technology University of South Florida - Sarasota, FL 2012 to 2013 Skills System Administration (10+ years), Active Directory (8 years), VMware vSphere (7 years), Network Administration (6 years), Exchange Server (5 years), Information Security (5 years), Windows Server (10+ years), System Analyst, Help Desk, Azure (3 years), AWS (2 years) Links http://ThomasPenafiel.com Certifications/Licenses ITIL Foundations February 2015 to Present ITIL® Foundation Certification - IT Service Management VMware Certified Professional - Data Center Virtualization (VCP6.5-DCV) August 2018 to Present The VCP6.5-DCV certification validates knowledge of implementation, management, and troubleshooting of a vSphere V6.5 infrastructure, using best practices to provide a powerful, flexible, and secure foundation for business agility that can accelerate the transformation to cloud computing. Additional Information Technology Skills  • Operating Systems: Windows Server; Windows; MacOS, Linux  • Virtualization: VMWare vSphere, Hyper-V, OpenVZ, Xen Server  • Systems and Network Management: Active Directory, Group Policy, WSUS, Exchange Server, IIS, Symantec Backup Exec, Windows Fax Services, SharePoint Management, XMPP Servers (OpenFire)  • Enterprise Hardware: Dell Server Products, Dell Storage Products (Equallogic, various models), HP BladeCenter; Cisco, Dell and HP networking equipment, and various other products  • Other Technologies and Skills: TCP/IP, DNS, Wireless AP's, IP Cameras, Web Design, SEO, Physical Cabling Infrastructures, Print Farms, High Speed Payment Systems (Opex and NCR)  • Eager to learn and master new technologies without hesitation