Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Daly City, CA Award winning and highly accomplished Network Administrator with a strong desire to  continually improve self and demonstrate the ability to easily understand new ideas and  concepts. Comfortable handling multiple projects simultaneously while dealing with  frequent interruptions and working in a high-pressure environment. Work Experience Systems Administrator Micromenders - San Francisco, CA March 2018 to Present • Maintained network/server infrastructures for multiple clients working closely with client’s C-level position employees ensuring network availability, stability, and performance on a day-to-day basis.  • Performed server and network administration on Windows Server 2008R2 - 2016 and it’s components, Cisco LAN/WAN networking devices, and Cloud Email/Spam solutions such as Office365, G-Suite, Mimecast, and more.  • Diagnosed and quickly resolved all IT trouble tickets coming in through Connectwise ticketing system, phone, e-mail, or walk-ins, consistently meeting Micromender’s service level agreement, which minimized users affected time with issues/outages.  • Implemented, configured, and troubleshot network firewalls, wireless access points, and switches.   • Instructed and assisted Network Operations Center Service Desk Engineers with trouble tickets requiring escalation.  • Created documentation for client’s network infrastructure and consistently maintained 100% of all documentation proactively preventing the need for ticket escalations.  • Worked a rotating Afterhours schedule with weekend on-call support to maintain client’s network uptime. Network Administrator United States Marine Corps 2011 to 2015 • Collaborated with leadership to design and implement networks to better fit the needs of users  • Designed network infrastructure & system requirements and made appropriate adjustments to insure operational objectives were met.  • Performed server and network administration on Windows Server 2003-2012, Active  Directory, MS Exchange, Local Area Network (LAN), Wide Area Network (WAN) and its  components.  • Implemented and managed storage area network (SAN); this includes disk array configuration and volume management.  • Diagnosed and quickly resolved any networking problems minimizing downtime.  • Managed all network-related projects such as installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting of routers, switches, and firewalls.  • Ensured stability, availability and performance of the entire IT infrastructure.  • Supervised day to day operations ensuring professionalism in all aspects  • Instruct and assisted junior technicians in areas pertaining to network engineering, server  administration, and network security  • Worked rotated off-hour schedules with weekend and on-call support to maintain consistent  system availability.  • Participated in the development, implementation and testing of disaster recovery procedures. Education Data Network Training School - 29 Palms, CA 2012 High School Diploma Jesse M. Bethel High School - Vallejo, CA 2007 Skills EXCHANGE (5 years), MAINTENANCE (5 years), NETWORK ADMINISTRATION (5 years), NETWORKING (5 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (5 years), Microsoft Office (5 years), Vmware (5 years) Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant June 2011 to June 2015 Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional June 2013 to Present Additional Information Skills  • Proficient in the following Internet standards and routing protocols: TCP/IP, OSI, OSPF, BGP,  RIP, and EIGRP  • Excellent knowledge of Infrastructure services such as Active Directory, LDAP, DNS, DHCP,  IIS, and SMTP  • 5 years of hands-on network administration and support experience in a Windows Server and Desktop Operating System environments - Windows 2003-2016 Servers and Windows  Desktop Operating Systems.  • 5 years of hands-on experience in Windows Active Directory & LDAP. This includes proven  experience configuring and maintaining site & domain level GPO's.  • Experience in administering VMware ESX 3.5 to 6.7, NETAPP Data On Tap, Orion  Solarwinds, Microsoft Exchange, Office365, G-Suite, Mimecast Spam Solution, Axcient backup solution, Mozypro/Carbon Black, Adobe for enterprise environments.  • Hands-on experience in Cisco Systems and Fortinet products.  • Excellent technical skills in installation, setup, configuration, maintenance, support/monitor of  servers and networking equipment.