Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Americas Credit Union Sachse, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Americas Credit Union 2019 to Present • Monitored XP2 services including daily, monthly and quarterly processing.  • Initial installation of new computers and printers.  • Oversaw weekly and monthly printing and distribution.  • Managed Visa files and statements and their distribution to all three credit bureaus  • Worked with in house employees with personal computer issues  • Assisted with networking issues between credit bureaus.  • Migrated Windows7 to Windows10 on various company PC's and laptops. Batch Operations Analyst Fiserv 2012 to 2016 • Monitored UNIX and Tandem systems ensuring service level agreements were met.  • Supported client file delivery with ftp and connect direct for on time transmission.  • Coordinated networking issue resolution with support teams to safeguard processing transfer.  • Manually delivered client production files on demand in diverse conditions.  • Kornshell scripting used for efficiently maintaining daily reports and log books.  • Ticketing and escalating all complex issues to tier2 support.  • Troubleshoot ATM machine connectivity issues and hardware failures. Mediation Operations Analyst AT&T Mobility 2009 to 2012 • Monitored all incoming files from clients and sustaining accurate processing.  • Direct contact for switch technicians concerning data and transfer rates.  • Issues resolution including all code deployments and system upgrades.  • Produced executive reports, shift turnovers and essential documentation.  • Training of team members on protocol for new interfaces. Information Systems Tech III (Dayshift Team Lead) Cingular Wireless 2001 to 2009 • As Lead coordinated daily market activities for the shift  • Conducted all priority one calls and provided status reports to incoming shift.  • UNIX-HP batch file processing environment controlling forty six million accounts.  • Issue resolution assistance for all production groups and multiple vendors AR payment processing.  • Kornshell scripting used in department of batch processing support. Vista Reports Analyst SBC Services 2000 to 2001 • Responsible for report generation requests of multiple production groups in a UNIX environment.  • Utilizing Vista Plus to maintain users and groups, folder linkage, archive dates and NT end user assistance.  • Daily off hours on call support on a daily basis as required. Advanced Computer Attendant Southwestern Bell Mobile Systems 1999 to 2000 • Participated in Weekly IPL's performing functions related to the recycling of the mainframe.  • Controlled job flow through the system in accordance with work schedules.  • Prepared trouble log entries for hardware and software problems.  • Coordinated with Internal Departments and Outside Vendors for hardware and software issues. Education Associate in Science in Business in Business Richland College - Dallas, TX Management Information Systems Studies University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX Skills HP-UX, UX, UNIX, KSH, TIVOLI, COBOL, MAINFRAME, TANDEM, ORACLE, ORACLE 8, SQL, PROJECT PLANNING, DISASTER RECOVERY, MAESTRO, NDM, FINANCE, TELECOMMUNICATION, MICROSOFT OFFICE, Linux Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    UNIX (HP-UX), Windows (All), Oracle 8/9i, Oracle SQL Plus, Tivoli Maestro, KSH, COBOL, Kornshell, NDM(Connect Direct), TNG Enterprise console, Toad, Gasper, Data Express, Tandem Mainframe, Microsoft Office (All)    Information Technology experience comprised of Finance and Telecommunication roles.  Function in key roles involving upgrades, conversions, disaster recovery and project planning.