Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Williamsville, NY • LAN/WAN administration & TCP/IP. Thorough understanding of TCP/IP related concepts (network addressing/subnetting, VLANS, ARP, DHCP, DNS, SMTP, SNMP, etc.). Advanced configuration and troubleshooting of layer 2 & 3 networking appliances and related protocols (OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, static routes, STP, etc.). Expert working knowledge of Cisco IOS, Meraki, HP ProCurve and Juniper network and security solutions.  • Administration and configuration of fully virtualized server environments utilizing both VMware vSphere/ESXi & Microsoft Hyper-V hypervisors.  • Experienced Windows Server & Active Directory administrator; proficient with Windows server solutions (Exchange, MSSQL, SharePoint), AD fundamentals and roles/features within AD (IIS, DNS, DHCP, etc.).  • Proficient with Linux CLI and Linux server administration. Implementation and support of CLI Linux based server environments running Red Hat (RHEL), CentOS and Debian.  • Scripting/coding for service/task automation. Languages include Python, Powershell, DOS/batch, vbscript, php and html/css. Coding for purposes of network scripting and website management/configuration.  • Cloud service administration including Microsoft Office 365 and Amazon AWS for the purposes of SAS delivery to end users.  • Management and configuration of storage arrays/SANs & NAS devices for centralized, provisioned storage solutions in virtual environments. Experienced with Dell EqualLogic, Synology, and Dell EMC arrays.  • Network security best practice and NGFW appliance management. VPN (IPSec and SSL) configuration. Experience with Cisco ASA, Dell SonicWALL, Juniper SRX, and Barracuda F-series appliances.  • Expert knowledge of workstation components, repair and end-user operating system support. Support for all Windows based operating systems as well as software packages commonly utilized in the office environment. Work Experience Systems Administrator RES Exhibit Services January 2017 to May 2019 Seasoned IT professional seeking a long term position in a systems/network administration or engineering role. Having grown as a member of IT teams both large and small, I have proven competency and first-hand experience working with a vast array of technologies found within the modern enterprise network. My skill sets are dynamic and rane from large scale network infrastructure management and deployment, to basic end-user support. Skill sets have been developed through years of hands-on experience working in the industry. Systems Engineer Lvl. 2 The New York Foundling Children's Hospital February 2016 to January 2017 Network Engineer Offsite Data Sync, Inc March 2014 to January 2016 System Administrator Arnold Magnetic Technologies Corporation January 2013 to February 2014 Education Associate of Applied Sciences in Computer Information Systems in Cisco Certified SUNY College of Technology at Alfred Skills Networking, Windows, Technical Support, Active Directory, Vmware