Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - MyITMasters • At MyITMasters, plan, install, and administer network and computer systems from scratch for clients and manage all I.T. needs from server to desktop to VOIP systems.  • Developed, installed, and administered infrastructure from the ground up at most recent company, NCF DNA. Installed HPE Simplivity 380 server utilizing VMWare environment.  • Created and administered all servers including domain controllers, file servers, print servers, deployment server, and DNS Server.  • Assisted National Job Corps Data Center with installation of Security Project - 125+ Networked Cameras and 20+ Networked Door Badge system. Sole administrator of the entire system locally on center.  • 20 years of expertise with Microsoft Products and Technologies including Office375, Office 97/XP/03/07, SharePoint 2003, NET Framework 2.0/3.0/3.5, Server 2016  • Extensively involved in all phases of VMWare implementation spanning over Analysis, Design, Installation/configuration, Development, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance  • Successfully migrated company from Novell servers and workstations to Microsoft platform.  • Successfully built from ground up - bio-computer pathology lab including all servers, desktops, terminals, software, and medical equipment.  • Experienced across varied industry verticals - Finance, Retail, Healthcare, Manufacturing, Pharmaceuticals, Education  • Trained and proficient in HIPPA standards  • Excellent documentation skills involving Standard Operating Procedures & Technical Documents  • Excellent Problem Solving and Communication Skills  • Highly capable in Project Management and Team Leadership increasing Client Investment Value  • Excels in team environment and can self manage successfully. Work Experience Systems Administrator MyITMasters February 2019 to Present • System & Network Support technician for managed IT of small local businesses  • Installation and configuration of servers and networks  • Administration of all I.T. computer and network systems for each client  • Configuration of managed network switches, servers, and physical firewalls  • Installation and configuration of VOIP phone system.  • Administration of VOIP phone systems for each client  • Managed IT technical support remote and on site I.T. Network Administrator II NCF Diagnostics & DNA Technologies April 2018 to October 2018 • Created network infrastructure from ground up. HPE Simplivity 380/VMWare implementation utilizing VMWare server environment along with Windows Server 2016  • Converted company from local sign on environment to a secured, Active Directory domain environment  • Created all Group Policy objects from domain level to user/computer level  • Administered Security Camera & Door Badge system using Brivo Application  • Systems Administrator for all company software including Office365 Licensing, Adobe Licensing, Phone/Voicemail system, Email creation, Active Directory  • Systems Administrator for proprietary Medical IT Software - Quickbase & Truemed portals  • Conducted end user training for staff  • Management duties - supervising staff, purchasing I.T. equipment, developing relationship with vendors, project management, making key department decisions to assist CIO when not available.  • Created SOP's and documentation for all systems and procedures within I.T. department I.T. Specialist/Manager Gainesville Job Corps March 2011 to August 2017 • Managed and ran entire I.T. department independently. Network environment was Citrix based connectivity to WAN servers running Windows 2008 Server.  • Administered Security Camera & Door Badge system  • Conducted end user training for staff  • Supported daily use of CDSS Applications - company proprietary applications.  • Mentored students to assist them in improving their computer skills along with interpersonal and professional skills  • Assisted in scheduled network copier upgrades. Implemented and trained staff on network copying and network email scanning  • Daily technical documents written for use by all staff and future I.T. Specialists.  • Daily Helpdesk tickets processed and resolved via email, phone, or in person.  • Successfully resolved anti-virus removals and system failures due to hardware or software issues.  • Hardware Technologies supported include: PC & Laptops, SATA - IDE Hard drives, RAM, Antivirus, Printers and Faxes, Motherboards, TC/IP, DNS and DHCP.  • Routine management decisions made on ordering parts, peripherals, and contracted equipment and vendors  • Assisted in training and troubleshooting of company software used, primarily MS Office within a Citrix environment, and CDSS Suite of Applications Sr. Technical Support Specialist AvMed Health Plans January 2008 to November 2009 • Developed rollout procedure and performed computer refresh for entire company that includes 900+ users.  • Created packages for a multitude of business applications, most notably VMWare.  • Image creation and deployment through PXE environment  • Conducted end user training for mobile nurses to utilize VMWare and VPN to perform daily duties  • Assisted in scheduled network printer/scanner upgrades.  • Daily technical documents written for use by company users and internal IT department.  • Daily Helpdesk tickets processed and resolved via remote access, email, phone, or in person. Ticket system administrated and utilized via Triactive.  • Successfully resolved anti-virus removal, system failures due to hardware failures.  • Performed software upgrades and patches.  • Technologies supported include: PC, SATA - IDE Hard drives, RAM, Antivirus, Printers and Faxes, Motherboards, TC/IP, DNS and DHCP, Cisco Routers, Active Directory, Group Policy, and Citrix.  • Vast experience gained using Novell based network, Novell Groupwise Email Client, and Novell Netware Tools including Zenworks, ConsoleOne, and NWAdmin. Desktop Support Technician Cellnetix Pathology Labs September 2007 to December 2007 • Successfully migrated IT infrastructure to a new location.  • Active Directory administration for an estimated 75 user environment.  • Successful setup of a bio-technical lab from ground up that includes PC Workstations, bar code scanners, document scanners, microscopes, Leica cassette labelers, and specimen/slide labelers.  • Ensured Wan connectivity and patch panel cabling.  • Daily technical documents written for use by company users and internal IT department.  • Daily Helpdesk tickets processed and resolved via remote access, email, phone, or in person. Ticket system administrated and utilized via Sharepoint.  • Successfully resolved anti-virus removal, system failures due to hardware failures.  • Performed software upgrades and patches.  • Technologies supported include: PC, SATA - IDE Hard drives, RAM, Antivirus, Printers and Faxes, Motherboards, TC/IP, DNS and DHCP, Cisco Routers, Dell Servers. Education A.S. degree in Computer Networking & Computer Information Systems Santa Fe Community College - Gainesville, FL Skills Cisco, Citrix, Storage area networks, Vmware, Security, Exchange, Firewalls, Ms office, Wireless, Ghost, Veritas, Linux, Adt, Printers, Xerox, Zenworks, Groupwise, Outlook, Workstations, Windows 10, Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Firewalls (5 years), Switches, VOIP (3 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ 1999 CompTIA Network+ 2000