Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II Radcliff, KY Work Experience Systems Administrator II CompuCom Systems, Inc - Louisville, KY February 2014 to May 2019 Operated as a Systems Admin II within a leveraged team of highly performing Systems Administrators that provided remote support to over a dozen large and small business clients. Responsibilities included following ITIL procedures to formally implement solutions to fulfill our clients demands and requirements. Oversaw daily operations of the client's infrastructure (consisted of physical and virtual servers). Responsibilities included routine maintenance of systems, implementing break fix solutions, providing monthly patching services and participating in small and large-scale projects that would involve upgrades or major overhaul in client systems. Became familiar and knowledgeable in a multitude of utilities, including WSUS, fundamental SCCM Administration, Citrix, multiple backup solution programs, DNS, DHCP, Group Policies, Active Directory, Fundamental Exchange Support and providing support for other 3rd party applications. Frequently trained and on-boarded new members of the team to fully prepare them in supporting and providing services to our clients day-to-day requirements. Contributed to team work flow by helping improve upon and streamlining existing processes and creating documentation that would strengthen the team's knowledgebase and ability to provide future support.    Special Projects Dept. Louisville, KY Tech Support and other departments Time Warner Cable September 2012 to January 2014 September 2012-January 2014  Tasked with manning a wide of projects to help facilitate Tier 3 operations on the floor and serve as a gateway between Tier 3 Tech Support and other departments within TWC. Responsibilities varied on a daily basis, which included screening tickets for important data before escalating them to the NOC, reviewing repeat incidents from the field and coordinating with the Tech Ops Supervisors and field operations to find a solution for unresolved incidents. Also provided live support for customers in the TWC chat room. Worked closely with Network or VOIP engineers from the NOC on tickets for issues that were especially challenging to resolve. Assisted other Tier 3 Techs in the call center as a lead in the shared group chatroom. Other responsibilities included working closely with the department that processed consumer escalations from the BBB, FCC and the Corporate Office of the President to resolve customer problem incidents. Tier 3 Technical Support Specialist Time Warner Cable - Louisville, KY January 2012 to September 2012 Assisted broadband subscribers in the diagnostic and repair of a wide range of internet connection issues through interpersonal customer service skills, technical knowledge and navigating customers through various Windows and MacOS operating systems. Additional responsibilities involved repairing VOIP telephone issues, assisting Field Technicians with various challenges they would encounter on the job, and keeping open an eye for opportunity on when a customer could benefit from service upgrades. Received recognition for consistently finishing each month in the top 10% of the call center and earned a promotion within the first nine months of employment. Medical Charts Technician Leprechaun, LCC / Tek Systems - Louisville, KY October 2010 to December 2010 Traveled as an on-site technician to doctor's offices and hospitals in the Louisville DMA. Collected medical records data (physical and electronic) on high risk patients for Medicare billing code audit, while maintaining compliancy to Federal HIPAA regulations. Maintained open communications between my team lead, HQ, and the office manager from each doctor's office. After all documents at site were procured, the data would be encrypted and transmitted to Leprechaun Headquarters. Education Associate's degree Sullivan College of Technology and Design - Louisville, KY 2009 to September 2011 Additional Information ? CompTIA A+ Certification & Network+ Certification  ? Microsoft Certified Technical Specialist (MCTS - Windows Server 2008)  ? Experience and knowledge in use of Windows XP/Vista/7/10, Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008, 2016, & 2019  ? Knowledgeable with VMware(vSphere 5.0 - 6.5)  ? Strong and Efficient Analytical and Technical Troubleshooting Skills  ? Good Written and Oral Communication Skills  ? Excellent Customer Service Experience  ? Capacity to create and provide documentation and instructions for processes and helping improve upon existing processes.  ? Understanding of ITIL procedures and terminology.