Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Support Engineer Houston, TX A hardworking, self-directed IT professional, with proficiency in PC troubleshooting and basic network troubleshooting, seeks a position of a Desktop Support Engineer in a competitive customer-centric setting. Work Experience Systems Administrator Alert Logic - Houston, TX December 2018 to Present Primary Responsibilities  ·   Provide technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues related to computer systems, software, and hardware.   ·   Respond to queries either in person, ticketing system, or over the phone.   ·   Manage audio-visual systems.   ·   Monitor and optimize performance of computer infrastructure, including working with research and development engineers to determine appropriate tools, software, and hardware for a range of complex processes.   ·   Develop program documentation (data management plan, asset management, testing strategy/plans, security plan, etc.)   ·   Install, modify, and repair computer hardware and software.   ·   Proactively plan for scalability and performance improvements.   ·   Administer Active Directory.   ·   Evaluate, select and deploy new technologies and tools.   ·   Follow up with customers to ensure issues have been resolved.   ·   Participates in on-call 24x7 support rotation.   ·   Performs other duties as assigned.   . Reemerge the work stations / Desktops as needed for new hire  . Setting up accounts for new hire in AD and in O365 Desktop support engineer Clarksons Platou Shipping Services USA LLC - Houston, TX January 2012 to December 2018 Responsibilities include:  • General administration of active directory and microsoft exchange create, edit and maintain user accounts, mailboxes, mail contacts, distribution groups, organizational units, and access permissions.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot and resolve desktop, hardware and software related issues (pcs, laptops, monitors, printers, peripherals, headsets, Vertical Wave phones, side cards, mobile devices, vpn and software applications).  • Led the win 7 migration project from the Houston Office in migrating 70+ users from win xp to win 7 enterprise  • Set up global and local video conferencing, webex and audio dial-ins for end-users and clients.  • Assemble projector/screen for manual implementations of audio/visual support for meetings/conference calls.  • Image, re-image, build and configure new/used company laptops and desktops.  • Assign and configure Vertical Wave phones/extensions via site administration.  • Scheduling and attending periodic service review meetings with users to identify gaps and resolve support issues  • Documenting case studies and relevant IT processes and procedures, and adding to the knowledge base of the organization  • Imaging Desktops and deploying them for the users  • Configuring new hires account in Active Directory and in Exchange  • Configuring Handheld Devices such as Iphones & Android on Active Sync Via Airwatch Agent Security IT Support Technician Xm Computers - Houston, TX October 2007 to September 2011 · Installed and maintained computer operating systems hardware and software packages.  · Provided technical assistance and resources on a regular basis.  · Verified fresh hardware and software for compatibility with company systems.  · Upheld technology procedures in coordination with information technology teams. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (7 years), EXCHANGE (7 years), SECURITY (7 years), CISCO (Less than 1 year), CITRIX (7 years), Office 365 (2 years), Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification Additional Information Proven ability to successfully handle routine network operations such as troubleshooting issues pertaining to user access management, software installation, hardware installation, system backup, and printer setup, among others  Proven expertise in providing active directory services, antivirus support, security patches and hotfix deployment, asset and configuration management, and remote troubleshooting of incidents, among others  Innate ability to learn new methods and skills and apply them aptly  Ability to work successfully in fast-paced IT environment, independently and as a part of large teams  Impressive interpersonal and communication skills    Technical skills  Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 10, Windows Server 2008 / 2012  Active Directory and Exchange 2003, 2007, 2010 2013  MS Internet Information Server, MS Office 2000, 2003, and 2010  MS Office 2010, 2013 and 2016  Sophos Email Appliance  Airwatch Agent  DUO Security  Quickbooks  Sophos, Cisco Endpoint Norton, and other Antivirus Software  Proficiency in using Citrix, Teamviewer, Goto Assist. Logmein & Netsupport Manager (Remoting Tools)  Vmware Horizon