Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - DeTar Healthcare System Victoria, TX Work Experience Systems Administrator DeTar Healthcare System - Victoria, TX 2017 to Present • Responsible for supporting 1500 users, 1000 devices, at 5 separate locations  • Maintain & upgrade data center of 60 servers  • Perform EMR systems updates & maintenance  • Install & repair PC-based systems in clinical environment  • Rotate on 24 hour on-call shift  • Coordinate updates & system maintenance with CHS corporate support resources & management  • Monitor & maintain network performance & stability on LAN, WLAN, & WAN networks of 75 switches & 500 access points  • Identify & perform hardware and software upgrades within hospital and corporate expense and capital budgets  • Dispose of outdated hardware in accordance with HIPAA & environmental regulations Independent IT Consultant South Texas 2016 to 2017 • Assist customers with IT-related business decisions  • Install new retail point-of-sale systems  • Troubleshoot and repair wireless network and wireless barcode scanners  • Diagnose down servers in critical retail environment  • Install new domain controllers and file servers  • Upgrade retail system software on servers and point-of-sale workstations  • Diagnose and repair Internet connectivity and VPN tunnel issues Local Platform Specialist Epicor Software Corporation - Victoria, TX 2009 to 2016 • Provide field support for Epicor Software Retail Systems covering over 100 locations in South Texas.  • Troubleshoot and resolve hardware and software related matters as primary customer contact, including maintenance of servers, retail point of sale systems, back office hardware, and network equipment dilemmas.  • Prepare ground-up installations encompassing hardware and software upgrades and remedial or remote repairs at customer sites.  • Setup and maintenance of wireless systems, including routers, access points, PC's and laptops.  • Support for Microsoft Windows workstation platforms from Windows XP to Windows 10 workstations and Windows Server 2008 and Server 2012 environments.  • LAN to WAN connectivity using Sonicwall routers, Virtual Private Network (VPN) connections, and remote access solutions including BOMGAR and Terminal Server.  • Support of local server based and cloud based systems.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE (cont.) Contract IT Support Professional Computer Network Systems - Victoria, TX 2009 to 2009 • Migrate workstations for Hallettsville independent school district from a Novell-based network to a Microsoft Windows Server 2003-based network.  • Repair servers, workstations, laptops, and printers.  • Provide support for Windows XP and Windows Server 2003.  • Run and terminate network drops for wireless access points and workstations. IT Support Specialist Energy Transfer Co - Corpus Christi, TX 2000 to 2006 • Responsible for 14 Houston Pipeline offices in South Texas region.  • LAN and WAN network setup and maintenance.  • HP and Dell server installation and maintenance.  • Run nightly network tape backups.  • Workstation and laptop setup and repair.  • Technical software installation and troubleshooting.  • Inventory obsolete equipment and arrange for disposal.  • Maintain 2 large gas plant control systems controlling Allen-Bradley PLCs. IT Support Specialist Post, Buckley, Schuh & Jernigan - Austin, TX 1997 to 2000 • Install, upgrade, and repair workstations and servers  • Install and troubleshoot software from Microsoft Windows NT Server to Microstation SE  • Maintain and upgrade the NT Server and Bay Switch Network  • Administer user database on a 200 person Microsoft Exchange System.  • Administer a Digital VAX 4000-300 running VMS v.5.4  • Run nightly backups on 8 machines totaling 200 gigabytes of data  • Train the staff on various office applications. Senior In-Home Technician Best Buy - Austin, TX 1996 to 1997 • Team Lead for PC repair services team at Austin, TX Best Buy location.  • Upgrade and repair customer's computers.  • Answer customer questions about computers and related products.  • Perform in-house set-up for computers purchased from Best Buy.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE (cont.) Associate II Dell Computer Co - Austin, TX 1995 to 1996 • Test operational integrity and perform software download on racks containing over 600 computers.  • Install hard drives, floppy disk drives, CD-ROM drives, modems, network cards, sound cards, and motherboards in new Dell computers.  • Test functionality of 500 system motherboards per day. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Information Systems University of Houston May 2009 Skills DHCP, MODEM, ROUTER, TCP, TCP/IP, VLAN, VMWARE, VPN, WIRELESS, PAYMENT CARD INDUSTRY, PCI, DNS, EXCHANGE, NETWORKING, SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENTS, EMR, BIOMETRICS, BACKUP EXEC, FIREWALL, ETHERNET, System Admin, System Administrator