Systems Administrator III <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> III Primary administrator of Linux servers running RHEL 7 and CentOS 7 - VMware ESXi and Horizon Los Lunas, NM Work Experience Systems Administrator III N3B Los Alamos - Los Alamos, NM April 2018 to Present Systems Administrator of production, testing and development  servers in mixed  environment. 50% Onsite 50% Remote  - Administration of VMware ESXi and Horizon.  - Primary administrator of Linux servers running RHEL 7 and CentOS 7  - Use Spacewalk for patch management.  - Primary administrator of resources deployed in Amazon Web Services.  - Deployed and maintain Atlassian Confluence and Atlassian Jira, both running on Apache  Tomcat  - Continuously build automated workflows allowing the IT Ops team to focus on projects instead  of break/fix  - Deployed and manage Splunk Enterprise in environment for monitoring and compliance.  - Introduced application deployment software for easier / more efficient of delivery of software  to desktops.  - Maintain IT documentation software.  - Manage Microsoft Group Policies. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Unirac, INC - Albuquerque, NM 2017 to 2018 Systems Administrator of production servers in mixed  environment.  - Deployed AWS EC2 instances using custom AMIs into a private VPC for an internal  engineering team's testing  environment, using CloudFormation JSON templates stored in Git.  - Migrated company data to AWS S3 and created life cycle policies to move old data to AWS  Glacier  - Create a VPN connection between the on-premise infrastructure and AWS VPC using Check  Point Firewall and AWS VPN service.  - Manage VMware environment with ESXi host on site and off site at colocation  - Monitor and test the integrity of Veeam repository and backups  - Maintain, configure and monitor all servers used in production - DC, DNS, DHCP, deployment, inventory, print,  file, etc.  - Deployed a Prometheus monitoring system on a CentOS system.  - Administration of the network infrastructure - HP Switches, Brocade, Check Point Firewall, Aruba Wireless. HELPDESK SUPPORT Eclipse Aerospace - Albuquerque, NM 2016 to 2017 Sole helpdesk support for over 250 employees located onsite in Albuquerque, NM and remotely in  Chicago, IL.  - Answering calls, submitting tickets, and responding promptly to user created tickets in Zendesk  - Microsoft office issues, Windows 10 training, Adobe Acrobat Pro troubleshooting, printer  installs, company  specific software installation.  - Updated hardware and software on laptops and workstations to Windows 10, created a company wide email  signature template, setup phone extensions and voicemail, and created Group Policies to install  printers on all  PCs on the domain. NETWORK TECHNICIAN LDD Consulting - Albuquerque, NM 2015 to 2016 Member of a small team that managed the IT of 25+ small to large  clients, including several  medical private practices.  - Supported doctor offices, installing and configuring HIPPA compliant software used in patient  management.  - Configured, installed, repaired and maintained networks, desktops, operating systems and printers.  - Monitored the backups of our clients' servers and workstations, implemented a patch  management system to keep the servers and workstations up-to-date.  - Communicated with customers on the phone, aiding and resolving problems and trained  customers on software and computer usage. PC REPAIR TECHNICIAN Performance Computers LLC - Los Lunas, NM 2014 to 2015 Interacted with customers daily, convey information clearly and concisely by using easily  understood terms in explaining computing techniques.  - Provided end-user technological support for computer and LAN related issues.  - Effectively cut down on support tickets turnaround time by 1-2 days by streamlining the process of managing  repair tickets based upon urgency, demonstrating my understanding of administrative duties and providing  advice regarding technical matters. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Security Western Governors University September 2017 Skills Microsoft IIS (1 year), Tomcat (1 year), Python, Vmware (3 years), Red Hat Enterprise Linux (2 years), AWS (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  OS: CentOS, RHEL 7, Debian 9, Windows Server 2008-2016.  Languages: SQL, HTML5, CSS, some Powershell, some Python  Services: IIS, Apache Tomcat, Spacewalk (Redhat Satellite fork), Veeam.  Platforms: AWS (EC2, VPC, DynamoDB, ELB), Azure, VMware ESXi, Github.