Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - PGA Tour Superstore Atlanta, GA To obtain a position with a well-established organization that will allow my experience  to be used for the benefit of the company as well as personal and professional growth. Work Experience Systems Administrator PGA Tour Superstore December 2018 to Present Administer virtual machines using VMWare of various Operating systems,  both Linux and Windows. Creating, migrating, decommissioning and troubleshooting them as needed.  • Configure and monitor network and security appliances to safeguard  network integrity.  • Experience modifying scripting to create unique solutions.  • Participated in IT projects, such as moving our Airwatch MDM to the cloud, SAP POS, and Proofpoint email security implementation.  • Analyze system and application logs to determine the root cause of problems and recommend effective solutions.  • Monitor the system daily and respond immediately to security concerns and help desk escalations as they occur. Technical Analyst PGA Tour Superstore May 2016 to December 2018 • On a small team responsible for the level one and level two needs of a nationwide network of stores.  • Troubleshoot and repair point of sale systems, Servers, handheld devices.  Scanners, virtual machines, wired and wireless networking.  • Administer remote technicians and ensure all needed work is accomplished.  • Assist other employees with any IT needs.  • Daily use of the following:  - Active Directory/DNS/DHCP  - Anti-Virus Applications  - Networking (LAN, WAN, MPLS, VPN)  - SAP HANA ERP  - Cisco products and TCP/IP Networking fundamentals  - GK POS/credit processing  - Cabling and audio/visual procedures  - Avaya VoIP phone systems  - Powershell  - Office365 Education South Cobb High School Chattahoochee Technical College Associates in Computer Information Systems Security of Applied Sciences Kennesaw State University Skills System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator, Linux (2 years)