Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Lakewood, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Technatomy/Department of the Interior March 2017 to June 2019 Systems Administrator on the Technology and Systems Management Branch team of the Personnel and Payroll Systems Division at the Dept of the Interior. Administration of the various time and attendance and payroll applications used by the federal government; WebTA, QuickTime, WebFPPS on Linux (RHEL and Fedora) and Windows platforms.  Duties included builds and migrations, deployments to test environments and production systems, maintenance and monitoring of the applications and hosts.  Bash scripting, Python scripting, management of the QuickSAR ticketing system. Production of documentation describing processes. On-call support. Software Engineer PSB CenturyLink December 2014 to January 2017 Software engineer on the Adaptive Platforms Innovation Team, responsible for CenturyLink's Software Defined Networking, Network Functions Virtualization and Big Data Platforms, under the platform name Programmable Services Backbone (PSB). The PSB team comprised a small development team, and an infrastructure/ systems engineering team. Team used an Agile development process, typically with three weeks sprints, and Jira for board management and reporting.    Duties included:  • REST API development with Python, PyCharm, Java, Docker  • Unit tests with nose2 and Postman  • Environment build-out/virtualization; creating, deploying, networking of VMs in VmWare and KVM (CentOS, Ubuntu)  • Setup and configuration of Tomcat, WSO2 API Gateway Manager, MariaDB, Apache, Splunk forwarders  • Source control with Git/Bitbucket  • Jira for Kanban board, sprint tracking and management  • Network configuration with IPAM and NIPAP  • Continuous integration with Jenkins  • Onboarding resource types with Blue Planet Orchestrate  • Blue Planet Resource Adaptors (spinning up Juniper Firefly VMs etc.)  • Implementing Blue Planet Failover/Georedundancy  • Documentation creation and maintenance in our Wiki  • SSL certificate procurement and installation  • OpenStack VM creation  • MariaDB installation and configuration  • Hadoop/Hive  • Gradle build process  • Nuage VSD Architect API development Senior Software Engineer (Employee) IntelePeer Cloud Communications July 2014 to December 2014 Worked with a small team of senior developers and QA engineers on Intelepeer's suite of Cloud Communication products. Set up a RedHat CentOS-6 VM development environment (Cygwin, Node.js, MongoDB, MySQL, Eclipse, VoEx etc.)    OSS/BSS duties:  • Investigated/resolved CDR invoicing discrepancies using Pymongo and Robomongo.  • Developed Bash and Python scripts for supporting OSS/BSS (delivering UDR customer attempts to customer-facing FTP site, managing CDRs/UDRs, modifying CDRs appropriately as per customer requirements, pulling rated records from EZCOM)  • Migrated customers using TOAD, MySQL and Python.  • Debugged and fixed existing production scripts/applications.  • Installed MongoDB and added new boxes to the cluster.  • Responded to subpoena requests and provided required data summaries from Mongo using Pymongo.  • Added billing/perf-tools/cdrTool streams for newly provisioned Taqua 7100 switches.    SuperRegistry/SuperGUI  • Developed SkipAPIs for Fluent-Federations/Super Registry using C++ and Boost.  • Developed SuperGUI functionality for managing Routing Profiles using JavaScript, Ajax and Node.js.  • Worked on integrating Skip APIs with SuperGUI. Senior Software Developer (Employee) The Library Corporation December 2007 to June 2014 I worked on the CarlX suite of library services and applications, developing client applications, server code and web services/APIs, using an Agile development process.    Most recent projects include:  • Developing a web application called WebCirculation which allows librarians to register patrons, search patron information and check out books/media. The software was developed to run on PCs, Macs, and Apple and Google tablets, running Chrome, Firefox and Safari browsers.  The Apache Tomcat-hosted web application uses JavaScript, JSP, Spring MVC, jQuery, Ajax and SWIG to make API calls to our legacy C++ and Java servers.  • Implementing an Apache Lucene Index/Searching application built from our legacy Oracle databases, to provide high-performance, full featured text searching which WebCircluation uses for searching patron information.  • Refactoring client and server code to use either OmniORB or DCE RPC for inter-process communication. De-coupling the applications and servers from using the now unsupported DCE RPC allows us to move away from older versions of Solaris and over to Linux, reducing costs for clients.  • Writing Google Mock unit tests when refactoring legacy server code.  • The company uses an Agile development methodology. Daily stand-up meetings are hosted by team members in rotation where we talk about progress and impediments, as are weekly demos and tri-weekly retrospectives.  We use LeanKit for an online Kanban board to track our tickets. Planning of tickets is typically held twice weekly, where we discuss and clarify requirements and design with product owners, and assign "tee-shirt" sizes (small, medium or large - indicators of the level of effort/complexity), and break the tickets down into tasks.  There are also alternating weekly Lean Coffee meetings to discuss the development process, addressing technical debt and for the Agile process itself.  • Subversion/Tortoise is used for source code control, with teams merging branches to the trunk every Thursday. We use ReviewBoard for posting code reviews prior to committing code to the repository. Once code is committed, Jenkins Continuous Integration initiates a build and deploys code to the QA environments.    • I worked on the Staff and Admin client applications using Borland Developer Studio, and Microsoft Visual Studio/MFC for the cataloging application ITSiX.  • Server code was written in C++ and Java, with versions running on both Solaris and Linux. Debugging was with dbx and gdb respectively.    In addition:  • I implemented a gSOAP web service which interacts with a Java LS2PAC server, using XML messages.  • -Created a test server and client for benchmarking/comparing CORBA and gSOAP calls.  • Used Python to create and test a Z3950 Update process.  • Implemented a set of NCIP messages for the SIRSI Dynix consortium in a Java server.  • Created a Python client to send XML NCIP messages to the Java NCIP server, and parse the response.  • Implemented the eContent Processor for Baker and Taylor  • Created a Java database comparison tool for comparing data in Oracle and Postgres databases. Software Developer (Employee) Bentley Systems, Inc April 2004 to November 2007 I participated in the design, implementation and maintenance of various components of Bentley's TPMS system, which enables state governments to issue permits for oversize loads, and safely routes them around state highways.    Specifically, I worked on:  • The Permit Administration module, which issues permits and routes the vehicles.  • The Maintenance Tool, which allows users to manage customer accounts and transactions, generate financial and system reports, and provides an interface for configuring the system and the routing engine expert system.  • The Vehicle Inspection application, which allows inspectors in the field to enter dimensions of vehicle configurations and to generate inspection reports and perform weight calculations.  The above were implemented in C++ and MFC. Database connectivity was via ODBC to an Oracle 9i or 10g database. I also created stored procedures, tables, views, indexes, constraints, granted permissions etc.    In addition, I used Crystal Reports to create dozens of reports for states such as California, Maryland, Georgia, South Carolina, Colorado, Pennsylvania and Kansas.  The most complex reports were the permit forms - legal documents - which trucking companies are required to carry. I also developed complete sets of accounting and invoicing reports, system management and performance reports, and vehicle inspection reports.  I also performed maintenance on the web interfaces to our systems.    On several occasions I traveled to client sites to teach their users about Crystal Reports principles and instructed them how to create their own ad hoc reports. Software Developer (Contractor) EADS Telecom November 2003 to April 2004 • Developed and troubleshot the Unicorn release of Centergy 5, a work-at-home call center application.  • Components built with Visual C++/ Java / Javascript / XML / Crystal Reports. Senior Software Developer (Contractor) Schlumberger - Houston, TX July 2002 to December 2002 • Trouble-shooting and fixing components for the 4.0.4 release of Geology Office, part of an oil exploration and seismic modeling suite.  • A Solaris/C++ development using Motif/X Windows and the Carnac graphics library. Senior Programmer MCI WorldCom for Ajilon Consulting October 1998 to June 2002 • Worked on an Enterprise-wide trouble ticketing system for WorldCom, developing the business and distribution layers of the Event, Notification and Business Rules servers.  • Developed in C++ and Java on AIX and PC platforms. Inter-object communication facilitated by BEA's WebLogic Enterprise ORB.  • Worked on System One, MCI's mass-market telephony services platform.  • Developed using Visual C++, MFC, COM/ Active X, STL and SQL on an NT platform.  • Lead position designing and developing the provisioning software for 'The Neighborhood', MCI's most strategic release in five years.  • Developed an automated asset tracking and disposal/ data-warehousing system.  • A Visual C++, MFC development, with Windows CE and HTML/ ColdFusion Clients communicating with Servers running on Windows NT and AIX platforms. Programmer/Analyst Simione Central for Ajilon Consulting - Atlanta, GA 1998 to 1998 Developed a home health care scheduling system. Programmer/Analyst Dun & Bradstreet/ GEAC for Ajilon Consulting - Atlanta, GA 1996 to 1997 Participated in the development of the payroll subsystem of the SmartStream software suite. Programmer/Analyst GPT (Dorset, England) 1991 to 1996 • Participated in the development of an advanced Intelligent Network product called GAIN Inventor.  • An object-oriented, Client/ Server development, INventor allows the rapid creation, testing, deployment and management of complex telephony services. CCITT SS7.  • Implemented layer 2 of a real time Primary Rate ISDN interface for the Digital Sound Corporation's VoiceServer platform. Developed using C, Unix.  • Implemented a short message system for delivering brief text messages to GSM 3.40 cell phones. Developed using C, SCO Unix and X.25 protocol.  • Created the online help system for Mercury's Account Card System. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bournemouth University Skills C+ (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Mfc (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), Python (3 years), Devops, Jenkins, Linux Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: Python, C++, Bash scripting, SQL, Java, C, XML    Databases: MariaDB, Hadoop, MongoDB, MySQL, Oracle, Postgres, SQLServer, DB2, Informix, Access    Operating Systems: Linux, CentOS, Ubuntu, Fedora, MacOS, Solaris, AIX, HP, DEC, Windows 7/XP/NT    Tools: Blue Planet Orchestrate, Postman, PyCharm, VmWare/VSphere, KVM, Git, Nose2,  Robomongo, Eclipse, SoapUI, Microsoft Visual Studio, SWIG, jQuery,  Spring MVC, Borland Developer Studio2007, Web Services/gSOAP, Subversion,  Maven, Apache Tomcat, MFC, OmniORB / CORBA, STL, Rogue Wave, ObjectBuilder, ObjectCenter, pdb, dbx, gdb    Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports 8.5, 9, 10    Misc: SDN, NFV, Agile/Kanban/Scrum, Google Mock/Test driven development, TOAD, SQL Navigator, Jira, ODBC, TCP/IP Stream Sockets, CVS, Visual Source Safe, PVCS, Xtreme Programming, Motif/ X Windows.