Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Quincy, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator MerlinOne - Quincy, MA February 2018 to Present Technical Consultant Autoscribe Informatics Inc - Lakeville, MA June 2016 to November 2017 Implemented and configured Autoscribe developed software, LIMS (Laboratory Information  Management System), and designed customer specific reports.  • Delivered on and off-site consulting services.  • Operated Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle SQL Developer Databases  • Tested new software upgrades prior to release to business customers Project Manager (Intern) Quinn Fisheries - New Bedford, MA January 2016 to May 2016 Worked towards database design and implementation for a startup business as part of a capstone  project.  • Created custom tables and data importation as needed for business. Customer Service (Intern) Medtronic - Mansfield, MA December 2015 to May 2016 • Ensured prompt, accurate, and complete responses to requests including pricing, product delivery and technical support.  • Maintained the highest level of integrity, professionalism, and courtesy when speaking with customers over the phone.  • Worked closely with Field Sales Representatives and Regional Business Directors to advise them of any potential customer issues. Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems University of Massachusetts Dartmouth - North Dartmouth, MA September 2012 to May 2016 Skills MICROSOFT SQL SERVER (1 year), MS SQL SERVER (1 year), ORACLE (1 year), SQL (1 year), SQL SERVER (1 year) Additional Information Summary of Skills  • Self-motivated professional with a drive for success.  • Proficient with Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle SQL Developer, SQL, Data Import/Export, Stored  Procedures, SQL Scripts, SDLC, Crystal Reports, C/C++, JavaScript and Microsoft Office, Windows 7/10  • Expertise in customer service, project management, software testing, networking and troubleshooting  • Dedicated, reliable, hard-working and honest.  • Strong written and oral communication skills.  • Excellent organizational skills.  • Experience working autonomously in a fast paced environment.