Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - MHM Services Inc Gaithersburg, MD Highly skilled IT professional with a background in systems administration, maintenance and end-user  training. Accomplished in streamlining system upgrades and installations. Talented in administering  and maintaining complex systems, including operating systems, servers and specialized software.  Seeking to leverage comprehensive IT experience to take the next career step in systems  administration with a respected organization that values hard work, strategic thinking and results. Work Experience Systems Administrator MHM Services Inc - Vienna, VA March 2016 to Present • Create, Install and Manage over 100+ VMware servers 2008 R2, 2012 & 2016 with VSphere client 6.5  • Company-wide 8X8 VOIP administrator supporting 1000+ users  • Kace Imaging expert (create, maintain and testing of company-wide images Windows 10 and Windows 7)  • Expertise in KACE SMA and SDA (Managed Installations, Patching, KSCRIPTS, Reporting, Labels, inventory, Assets.  • Fortinet Firewall Administration, Ability to ADD/CHANGE/REMOVE firewall rules  • Provide third level technical support to 8000+ users  • Manage data backups with Barracuda backup solution  •Email Security Gateway administration with Barracuda ESG  • Expertise in Active Directory Administration (User objects, groups, computer objects)  • Manage Exchange 2016 DAG, Exchange 2010  • Maintain documentation of network, server and computer systems  • Frequent travel to multiple sites across the country to deploy hardware in prisons and jails Junior Systems Administrator MHM Services Inc - Vienna, VA August 2013 to April 2016 • Assist over 3000 users via telephone, email and SharePoint workflow.  • Experience in Server administration in various environments - 2003 and 2008 with Active Directory  Services (AD, DNS, and DHCP).  • Hands on experience on MS Exchange server 2007 & 2010 Active Directory Services -- Managing  Users & Other Resource objects.  • Managing file servers and print servers.  • Creating groups, users and assigning share permissions.  • Managing of antivirus server Symantec Endpoint protection Manager.  • Support multiple software platforms such as Kronos, Ultipro, ADP, ERMA.  • Support F5 Network VPN Client and Dell Sonic wall VPN.  • Anti-Virus updates and MS Patches Management.  • Tools & Utilities, Go to Assist Expert, Dame Ware, Remote Desktop, Logmein.  • Deploy image configuration and computer setup using KACE Appliance.  • Experience with Migrating from XP to Window 7 environment.  • Install, troubleshoot and maintain local and network printers.  • Monitor tickets assign via Dell Kace and Track IT.  • Push software on all network devices via Kace Appliance.  • Manage users and IT policies on Blackberry V 5.0.  • responsible for creating, tracking and submitting purchasing requests via Track IT.  • VOIP telephony experience (Mitel, Fortivoice, 8X8). Tier 2 Helpdesk Technician AMERICAN DIABETES ASSOCIATION - Alexandria, VA February 2012 to June 2013 • Assist over 1000 users via telephone, email, remotely and onsite IT problems.  • Provide new hire orientation for all new employees.  • Deploy image configuration and computer setup using Symantec Ghost for multiple systems.  • Configure and troubleshoot Windows XP, Vista and Windows 7 operating systems.  • Perform data recovery and migration using WinTech.  • Reset user passwords, lock/unlock user account via Active Directory Administrative Console.  • Install and configure Any Connect VPN Client and Cisco SSL VPN.  • Provide superior customer service and correct analysis, diagnosis, and resolution to complex  customer support issues.  • Monitor ADA network using Solar Winds.  • Maintain and update computer systems, hardware and peripherals as needed.  • Maintain and update HEAT ticket tracking system.  • Setup, configure and troubleshoot wireless aircards and MIFIS.  • Install, troubleshoot and maintain local and network printers. Tier 1 Helpdesk Technician AMERICAN DIABETES ASSOCIATION - Alexandria, VA February 2008 to February 2012 • Process all invoices and annual contracts for five directors and Chief Technical Officer of IT&S.  • Triage of all Help Desk emails, create HEAT tickets and assign to appropriate person or groups.  • First Point of contact for all HR IT Request processing.  • Prepare written documentation of HR request policy and processes.  • Provide functional and technical support, troubleshoot and diagnose hardware and software  problems on desktop, laptop and printers.  • Manage loaner pool of laptops, projectors and aircards and MIFIs.  • Implement a tracking system for loaner hardware through HEAT database. Education Information Systems MONTGOMERY COLLEGE - Rockville, MD Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Technical support, Imaging, Ms exchange, Training, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, SCCM Additional Information Skills    • Excellent communication and relationship-  building skills  • Kace Imaging Expert  • 8X8 administrator Expert  • Technical Support and troubleshooting  • Active Directory  • Cisco switches  • MS Exchange server 2016 & 2010  • Multi-lingual  • End-User Training