Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator II - AIM Aerospace/Quatro Composites Dakota Dunes, SD To utilize my skills, enthusiasm and talents to accomplish our goals and objectives, as well as enhance  my own knowledge and experience in order to become a more valuable team member. Work Experience Systems Administrator AIM Aerospace/Quatro Composites - Orange City, IA August 2017 to Present Responsible for the effective provisioning, installation, configuration, operation, maintenance, and retirement of systems, hardware, and software related infrastructure. Some specifics are lead on Help  Desk, active directory maintenance, security cameras, entry badges, new employee onboarding and exiting, proper disposal of retired assets, creation of email accounts and distribution groups on the  Exchange Server. Also teaching a Computer Basics class to new employees and handling all A/V  hardware for the facility. Technical Consultant/Conversion Specialist Accela, Inc - San Ramon, CA April 2016 to February 2017 Installing software packages remotely onto client's servers. Installing and configuring SQL 2012 and IIS.  Troubleshooting the software when possible. Running conversion tools on SQL and PROGRESS  databases. Desktop Technician Level II/Client Analyst TIS -Trinity Health - Mercy Medical Center - Sioux City, IA April 2014 to April 2016 1  Daily monitoring of the queue and sorting the incoming issues and service requests based on priority.  Working with customers and sometimes vendors to resolve hardware and software issues regarding workstations with retail and one-off software. Providing printer support and troubleshooting. Remote  support for local and regional locations, imaging laptops and desktops. Professional Services Consultant Accela, Inc - San Ramon, CA July 2013 to April 2014 Installation/Deployment of Accela Software into client environments in person and remotely through VPN.  This could involve the setup of IIS7 with the creation of web services, Microsoft SSRS 2008, SQL, and Oracle. Also installation could be through deployment of software and customization of configuration files.  Also troubleshooting of Accela Software for clients that are already actively using the various software  modules we sell (Geographical Information Systems,  Mobile clients, and more). Technology and Contemporary Worship Coordinator Morningside Lutheran Church - Sioux City, IA September 2006 to July 2013 Responsible for all IT issues that might occur in our wireless and wired networks, computer assets,  printers, and other technology hardware. Update the church website, Twitter, and Facebook pages.  Coordinate and plan much of the contemporary worship service (which involves leading about 20  volunteers every Sunday), play in the bands as needed, run the soundboard, and coordinate our summer  riverfront services. Work with teams of people of various ages, backgrounds, and experiences to accomplish goals on a weekly, monthly, and annual basis. Trade Show Dept Inventory Specialist Addeco, Inc - Sioux City, IA April 2005 to September 2006 Clean, load, and set up and ship out computer systems to be used at trade shows. When the systems  return, reload the hard disk drive and turn the unit around again to be shipped out to the next show. This  job was working as a Gateway temporary employee while employed by Addeco. Service Technician American Bank Equipment - Omaha, NE August 2004 to February 2005 I installed equipment into new and pre-existing banks. This equipment included ATM machines, alarm  systems, lockboxes, and teller equipment. I also serviced this equipment as well. Manufacturing Readiness Program Manager Gateway, Inc April 2004 to May 2004 Coordinate with other portable engineering groups to set the schedule for the testing of portable  related projects by the Pilot Verification team.  ? Conduct Manufacturing Readiness Pre-Verification and Post-Verification meetings while also creating and distributing the reports that are necessary to each.  ? Review and approve portable related Configuration Change Orders.  ? Create and test portable related Configuration Rule Changes. SLT Engineering Technician Gateway, Inc June 2001 to March 2004 Assisted in transitioning Gateway NSC test facility to overseas test facility.  ? Served as team lead for the M675PIR portable computer during development and testing.  ? Launched an average of 6 new mobile product lines per year; validated and qualified all Gateway  and vendor hardware plus over 30 software titles.  ? Performed evaluation, development, piloting and support of test procedures and test suites for new and existing technologies with mobile PC systems.  ? Tested and troubleshot to assure customer level quality on mobile PC hardware, operating  systems and proprietary Gateway software.  ? Generate logical, in-depth analysis of a problem or situation in a detailed problem report for internal and external engineers, technicians and Senior VP task force teams.  ? Worked and performed in compliance with ISO 9001. Technical Support Technician & Online Support Technician Gateway, Inc May 1998 to May 2001 Troubleshooting international, corporate, and domestic desktop and portable systems by phone,  e-mail, or real-time online chat/instant messaging.  ? Finding the best solution to both hardware and software based problems in a time-sensitive  environment. Education Associates of Applied Science in Criminal Justice Blinn College - Brenham, TX December 1996 USAF Avionics Electronics School August 1987 to May 1988 Skills Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator Additional Information COMPUTER KNOWLEDGE AND CERTIFICATIONS  ? Microsoft Certified Professional and CompTIA A+ Certified Technician  ? SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008 and Oracle 11g  ? All current and past Microsoft Operating systems both Workstation and Server  ? Apple products, i.e. iPad Air, iPad mini, iPod, MacBook Pro  ? Microsoft Office Suite Products