Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Modern Information Solutions Work Experience Systems Administrator Modern Information Solutions March 2015 to Present Primary Tasks  • Configure and deploy switches and routers in customer networks to replace aging devices or meet growing  business needs.  • Proactively monitor 200+ network devices and servers to detect and resolve issues before services are impacted.  • Deploy and maintain firewalls from a variety of vendors, including next-generation features, Site-to-Site VPNs,  Remote Access VPNs, Access Rules, and NAT Policies to allow secure remote access to internal resources.  • Install and maintain Linux servers for services such as file sharing, network monitoring, and backups.  • Configure and implement Windows Server solutions, including Domain Controllers, Group Policy, File Servers,  Print Servers, WSUS, Routing and Remote Access, and Certificate Services.  • Support virtualized infrastructures running Windows and Linux servers.  • Perform administrator tasks for Exchange servers, such as troubleshooting mail flow and database issues,  monitoring storage usage, creating mailboxes, and managing certificates.  • Administer SANs in virtualized infrastructures, including monitoring storage usage, creating and expanding  volumes, and troubleshooting incidents.  • Perform network security assessments and onboard new customers.  • Implement cloud solutions such as Office 365, Mimecast, and Azure services.  • Administer internal and external DNS records for websites, email, and public-facing corporate resources.  Recent Achievements:  • Implemented an SNMP solution to monitor more than 200 network devices across 20 customer networks.  • Implemented an automated configuration backup for all network devices and firewalls.  • Deployed syslog servers and configured logging on network devices for monitoring and compliance.  • Implemented an RMM solution across all clients, resulting in more accurate customer inventory, improved  monitoring capabilities, and improved efficiencies resolving issues.  • Implemented an internal documentation system to facilitate the sharing of customer information to improve  training procedures and productivity. Lead Customer Service Representative Fifth Third May 2013 to January 2015 • Led in sales and operations to ensure our team met sales goals and compliance standards.  • In my first two quarters, I improved the branch's Financial Center Audit rating from 59% to 96%, reducing risk.  • Consistently exceeded sales goals and received high customer service ratings. Education BSBA in Computer Information Systems Thomas Edison State University March 2019