Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Professional Fairmont, WV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator IT Mindshare May 2017 to January 2018 • Senior technology consulting for both internal employees and clients on senior technical matters.  • Lead Wi-Fi Installer for access points, networks, devices, and controllers.  • Conduct server maintenance on a scheduled and routine basis.  • Consult and implement all aspects of technology and managed services for clients.  • Installation of data cabling and network configuration of various sizes and complexity.  • Provide outstanding customer service to clients via the phone, email, and in-person.  • Participate in on-call rotation for after hours and emergency support.  • Cable management and network closet organization and labeling.  • Mobile Device Management for clients to include procurement, repair, setup, and troubleshooting. IT & Electronic Marketing Manager I-79 Honda Mazda 2014 to 2017 • Managed all technology maintenance, installation, and training.  • Maintained 48 workstations, 6 multifunction copiers, and Windows Server 2012.  • Directed all aspects of electronic marketing which included social media, web presence, and email.  • Ensured daily operation of network, firewall, and security.  • Developed and maintained all workplace technology policies and procedures.  • Facilitated third party vendor support for sales, service, and finance. IT Technician Infinite Technology Solutions 2009 to 2014 • Repaired hardware and software related issues for both PC and Mac platforms.  • Provided in-shop, remote, and onsite technical support.  • Consistently led team in sales of computer and networking equipment. Parts Specialist / Inventory Control Dyno Nobel 2005 to 2008 dnx Drilling  • Managed all logistics operations which encompassed ordering, accounts receivable, and invoicing.  • Inventory Control Clerk for 3 million dollars of drilling equipment.  • Account Manager for 4 sales accounts which consisted of consumable and mining products.  • Provided hands-on repair of Sandvik and other brands of hammers.  • Provided oversight of a parts budget which included forecasting and day-to-day expense management.  Experienced Forklift Operator Sales Associate L&S Toyota January 2004 to November 2004 • Built relationships with new customers to achieve sales objectives and goals.  • Proficiently sold a wide range of Toyota vehicles and services.  • Consulted with members of other departments to complete sales transactions. Education Associate Degree of Information Technology in Information Technology West Virginia Junior College - Junior, WV None in Postsecondary Education Concord University Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Information Technology, It Specialist, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Computer Repair, Comptia, Network Support, Cisco Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified Present Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gwjrfqhlh-1q0-xh Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.