Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - PEBTF Spring Grove, PA To obtain a system administration position that allows me to use my years of experience in administration of both Linux and Windows systems to provide the best possible administration, security, and support to the end users. Work Experience Systems Administrator PEBTF July 2018 to Present • Maintain and update, the primary application for the organization, Health Rules  • Maintain, update, and patch the Linux infrastructure that the Health Rules application runs on.  • Created, updated, and maintained a new web infrastructure for both the public facing site and the intranet.  • Assist the Application Development team in troubleshooting issues with their projects.  • Troubleshoot issues with Health Rules as well as the Linux and Windows infrastructure.  • Evaluate new products and make recommendations on how to implement and improve the current environments.  • Developed custom tools to eliminate human error from tasks that are performed regularly.  • Wrote scripts to better streamline processing things into Health Rules.  • Create and maintain documentation on all processes and projects. Web Technologies Analyst Bonton Inc May 2013 to June 2018 • Maintain, develop, update, and, build a stable web environment of both Linux and Windows servers to support internal and external applications.  • Configure and use monitoring tools to ensure that eCommerce and internal applications are running at optimum performance as well as identify potential issues.  • Troubleshoot eCommerce, web services, and both Linux and Windows server issues.  • Evaluate new products and make recommendations on how to implement them into the current environment.  • Support users, developers, and vendors to locate and remedy and failing component of the eCommerce environment.  • Develop tools and scripts specifically for my group to automate tedious and repetitive work  • Create documentation that provides clear configuration and installation instructions for all projects. NOC/HD Engineer Tanager Inc June 2012 to April 2013 • Monitor and log system alerts as well as coordinate the troubleshooting steps for prompt resolution  • Create and track Rational trouble tickets received via email or phone.  • Escalate issues to appropriate parties for resolution.  • Proactively check the health and welfare of CMS applications.  • Perform start-up/shutdown procedures when necessary.  • Prepare and distribute system health reports Education Associate of Specialized Business Degree in Computer Systems Specialist YTI Career Institute - York, PA May 2012 Skills Active directory (Less than 1 year), Apache (7 years), Apache solr (5 years), Application server (5 years), Bash (7 years), Cabling (10+ years), Catalyst (Less than 1 year), Cisco (3 years), Cisco asa (2 years), Citrix (5 years), Commerce server (5 years), Css (8 years), Dhcp (8 years), Dns (8 years), Git (4 years), Html (10+ years), Iis (8 years), Internet information services (Less than 1 year), Javascript (5 years), Linux (10+ years), System Admin (6 years), Red Hat (5 years), System Administrator (6 years), Linux Administrator (6 years), Vmware (5 years) Additional Information Skills  Operating Systems: Windows(XP, 7, 8, 10), Windows Server(2003, 2008, 2012, 2016), Linux(Red Hat, SLES10-12, CentOS, Fedora, Ubuntu), Mac OSX  Networking: Cisco, Cabling, Switches, Routers, Wireless, TCP/IP  Administration: Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, Group Policy, SUSE Manager, Puppet, Salt, IBM ILMT, IBM Systems Director, Dynatrace, Webpagetest, VMWare, Akamai, SUSE SMT, BASH, Powershell, GoAnywhere MFT, iWay, WebLogic, HealthRules, PRTG  Hardware: PC Repair, IBM Power Servers, Dell PowerEdge Server, SAN Storage, IBM HMC, IBM VIO Servers, Citrix Netscalers, Cisco Catalyst Switches, Cisco ASA  Software: Microsoft Office(2003, 2007, 2010, 2016), OpenOffice  Web Development/Hosting: HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, PHP, Ruby, Ruby on Rails, Python, Apache, IIS, IBM IHS, IBM Websphere Application Server, IBM Websphere Commerce Server, Solr, IBM eXtreme Scale, IBM Sterling, Git