Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Baltimore, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Humanim - Baltimore, MD February 2016 to Present IT Support Technician Amazon - Baltimore, MD January 2016 to February 2016 Inventory, audit, maintain, update, configure, and deploy all IT equipment throughout the entire Fulfillment Center. This includes, but is not limited to: PCs, Phones, Radio Frequency Scanners, Bluetooth Scanners, Thin Clients, Laptops, Multifunction Printers, Zebra Thermal Printers, and other end user devices. Submit WebRequisitions for all necessary IT equipment. Ensure that the RMA and repair process for all devices under warranty is completed. Reset passwords, unlock accounts, unlock computers via Active Directory, and activate account specific services via Power Up. Use Network Automation and Reporting Framework(NARF)to verify that each IP address and associated hostname is in the correct VLAN. With Change Management (CM) approval, enter IDFs to adjust patch cables and activate necessary Ethernet ports. Research software products and their applicability to the organizational environment. Oversee and contribute to projects approved by Senior Operations Managers Amazon Associate/ Operations Administrator Holabird Ave - Baltimore, MD October 2014 to February 2016 Phone: (410) 633-2545 Rental Inspector/Marketing/ Customer Support Zipcar - Baltimore, MD May 2011 to February 2015 • Fleet Associate:  Actively troubleshooting issues pertaining to maintenance, cleaning, locations, and preparation of cars for in-fleeting and de-fleeting. Providing analytical and logistical support to other Fleet Team members and other zipcar staff. Coordinating with zipcar home office, Avis Budget Group, government departments in Baltimore City, and other vendors to ensure service for zipcar members is taken care of expeditiously and efficiently.     • Brand Ambassador  Promoted the ZIPCAR brand throughout Baltimore City in various marketing programs, includingmany university outreach events, neighborhood association meetings, and corporate receptions.Encouraged community members to consider ZIPCAR as an alternative to traditional transportationand provided answers to any questions pose Data Entry Specialist U.S. Census Bureau - Reston, VA February 2010 to September 2010 Delmock Technologies Inc.  IT/MIS Research Intern  Phone: (301) 772- 9400  Baltimore, MD Education BS in Management Information Systems Coppin State University August 2011 to May 2015 Certification of Completion CompTIA A+ in Prep Morgan State University Skills Java (2 years), SQL (3 years), Access (2 years), ETO Administrator (3 years), Relational Databases (5 years), Active Directory, SCCM, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, System Admin Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Training Microsoft Technology Associate (SQL) January 2019 to Present Additional Information Technical Qualifications  • Operating Systems: Windows 2000/ME/XP/Vista/7/8.1/10  • Computer Languages: COBOL, C++, Java, Visual Basic  • Database Applications: Microsoft SQL/Access, MySQL, Relational Databases  • Keying Over 70 WPM, Over 90% Accuracy