Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Lowell, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator ABCorp - West Roxbury, MA March 2015 to February 2019 • Installed, configured, and troubleshot problems reported by users.  • Maintained existing physical/virtual servers and sonic firewalls.  • Supported and maintained IT infrastructure LANs, WANs, routers, Cisco switches, Fiber Optic network, and Intranet systems.  • Administered laptops, desktop computers, servers, printers, iPhones, and smart phones.  • Managed and documented Active Directory Object creation and configuration.  • Supported virtual remote desktop. Systems Administrator Rousselot - Peabody, MA December 2010 to March 2015 • Installed, configured, and troubleshoot problems reported by users.  • Managed physical servers and virtual servers.  • Maintained network IP security cameras and antivirus security of the company sites.  • Supported LANs, WANs, routers, Cisco switches, Internet, Fiber Optic network, and Intranet systems.  • Administered laptops, desktop computers, servers, printers, Cisco switches, firewalls, Shoretel VOIP phone systems, iPhones, and smart phones.  • Assigned configuration of authentication and authorization of Active Directory services.  • Maintained Veeam backup and replication daily and weekly data. Touch Panel Production Supervisor Portable Product Service - Stafford, TX August 2008 to October 2010 • Managed HD2 refurbished LCM and Touch Panel (TP) project.  • Reported input and output the productions daily and weekly. Kept track of defective parts and new parts in and out of stock room.  • Managed 1st shift and 2nd shift assembly lines of HTC cell phone products on the schedule to work daily and assigned job to assemblers.  • Maintained and trained each section of the assembly line to meet a quality assurance specification. Quality Assurance Engineer Verizon Telecommunication - Middleton, MA April 2004 to April 2005 • Developed test cases and test plans based on documentation and executed test cases using Test Director Tool.  • Tested Web-Based Applications of VAST (Verizon Advertisement System of Tomorrow).  • Performed functional, black box, acceptance, and regression tests.  • Developed SQL scripts to verify the data from the Oracle database. Reported bugs to Test Director. Quality Assurance Engineer Intellution - Foxborough, MA October 2000 to November 2003 • Developed test cases according to the MRD (Marketing Requirement Document) and FRS (Functional Requirement Systems).  • Executed and modified manual tests of iFIX (HMI/SCADA) Automation Software. Verified bugs from the Visual Safe Tracker System.  • Developed test scripts to execute functionality and performed black box, acceptance, and regression tests. Education B.S in Computer Science Wentworth Institute of Technology - Boston, MA May 2000 Skills .net (Less than 1 year), Active directory (8 years), Citrix (Less than 1 year), Dhcp (Less than 1 year), Dns (Less than 1 year), Employee resource group (Less than 1 year), Enterprise resource planning (Less than 1 year), Erp (Less than 1 year), Exchange (Less than 1 year), Fiber optic (8 years), Fiber optic network (8 years), Jira. (Less than 1 year), Ms exchange (Less than 1 year), Ms office (Less than 1 year), Symantec (Less than 1 year), Tcp (Less than 1 year), Tcp/ip (Less than 1 year), Visual studio (Less than 1 year), Vmware (Less than 1 year), Voip (4 years), System Admin, System Administrator