Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - TRAVIS INDUSTRIES, INC Snohomish, WA Strong hands-on technical skills combined with ability to diagnose complex problems and manage all aspects of a solutions-driven IT department, including helpdesk and infrastructure. Highly skilled at communicating effectively with customers, technical teams, staff, and all levels of management. A cost-conscious decision-maker known for leading pro-active, strategic, and tactical planning efforts. Work Experience Systems Administrator TRAVIS INDUSTRIES, INC - Mukilteo, WA 2008 to Present Strong hands-on technical skills combined with ability to diagnose complex problems and manage all aspects of a solutions-driven IT department, including helpdesk and infrastructure. Highly skilled at communicating effectively with customers, technical teams, staff, and all levels of management. A cost-conscious decision-maker known for leading pro-active, strategic, and tactical planning efforts. Systems Administrator BEN BRIDGE JEWELER, INC - Seattle, WA 2002 to 2004 Administered 12 servers/135 users. Migrated network platform from NT 4.0 to Windows 2000. Migrated MS Exchange 5.5 to 2000. Rolled out Windows XP on workstations (upgrade from Windows 98). Overhauled, wrote, and tested new disaster recovery plan. Collaborated with programmers on several AS400 projects. Systems Engineer APPLIEDTHEORY CORP - New York, NY 1999 to 2002 Designed and implemented multiple development environments. Managed Internet, intranet, and in-house multi-platform environment including 20 servers running on MS BackOffice, Windows NT and Windows 2000, and Lotus Domino R4 and R5. Procured hardware/software and managed assets. Trained 80+ staff in Lotus Notes, MS Office, Act!, and proprietary software applications. Systems Engineer ANALYSTS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION - Redmond, WA 1996 to 1999 Managed corporate system upgrade to WAN, providing analysis and development for continued access to existing information and cost effective migration of legacy data. Coordinated and administered network and communications support for 12 servers and 50 nodes running Windows NT, IE, IIS, SQL Server, Lotus Domino, and cc:Mail. Standardized corporate communications protocol to TCP/IP. Education High school or equivalent Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin