Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Productive Programming Inc Madison, WI A dedicated and hardworking individual who is looking to expand into areas in line with my education concentration of Software Development or other Information Technology related fields. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Productive Programming Inc September 2016 to Present • Provides comprehensive technical expertise in the analysis and resolution of the most complex problems and ensures systems software backup/recovery requirements and disaster recovery procedures are integrated and support the business needs.  • Provides capacity/performance analysis, diagnosis, testing and tuning to ensure efficient use of resources. This includes the development of appropriate reporting and modeling of anticipated future needs.  • Provides comprehensive on-call support for operating system and software products in event of production malfunctions.  • Provides mentoring and guidance to junior technical staff.  • Provides technical leadership for the configuration, monitoring, technical support and maintenance of all networked equipment as it pertains to security, including routers, switches, firewalls, IDS/IPS, encryption, remote access and other technologies as defined.  • Provides technical leadership for the configuration, monitoring, technical support and maintenance of all servers and various networking solutions, including all hardware and software.  • Provides technical leadership in a high-availability 24/7 environment.  • Research, plan and develop continuous improvement for existing and proposed desktop and LAN/WAN communications; ensuring that communications access, security, printing services, operating systems, electronic mail and desktop applications function properly.  • Recommend changes to and enforce security access to data, configure network hardware and software; and monitor security logs.  • Responsible for ensuring software licensing compliance.  • Maintain an inventory and accounting of the network equipment, configuration, supplies and software, ensuring efficient use and allocation of network resources.  • Maintain up-to-date knowledge of all regulations that pertain to this position.  • Interfaces with appropriate software and hardware vendors during installation and in resolution of any problem. Computer Operator II Integrated Gaming Technology (IGT) March 2016 to September 2016 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Operational support of our product development and systems integration teams, our lottery operations and customers, monitor IGT's enterprise infrastructure and escalate issues as required.  • Assist in the daily operation of computer systems.  • Carry out all tasks on the daily checklist under supervision.  • Generate reports required. Assist in verifying the validity and clarity of computer reports and other output before releasing it from Computer Operations.  • Assist in the recovery activities necessary to restore normal operations.  • Follow the correct escalation procedures within Computer Operations and other Departments who are inter-dependent. Quarantine and Labeling Technician II American Red Cross April 2013 to March 2016 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  •Manufacture, store and distribute blood products/samples. Maintain manual and computer records associated with production or testing.  •Maintain accurate, legible and complete manufacturing department records and Ensure products are suitable for release for distribution and are managed appropriately. Perform data entry and operate the computer programs associated with component production, labeling, storage, and shipping.  •Comply with the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) where required. Perform all duties and responsibilities in compliance with standard operating procedures, Safety Quality Identity Potency Purity (SQUIPP), regulations outlined in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and other applicable Federal, state and local regulations. Clinical Laboratory Specialist United States Army January 2008 to February 2013 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  •Supervise and instruct technicians and laboratory personnel.  •Conduct chemical analyses of body fluids using microscope or automatic analyzer to detect abnormalities or diseases. Enter findings into Composite Health Care System and notifying providers for critical values.  •Prepare standard volumetric solutions and reagents to be combined with samples, following standardized formulas or experimental procedures.  •Collect blood or tissue samples from patients, observing principles of asepsis to obtain samples.  •Operate, calibrate and maintain quantitative and qualitative analysis equipment. Instruments: Beckman Coulter DxC600i chemistry analyzer, Beckman Coulter LH785 hematology analyzer, Beckman Coulter ACL Elite and Elite Pro coagulation analyzer, Iris 200 urinalysis analyzer, AVL Electrolyte analyzer, Serum/Urine Osmolality analyzer  •Manage the Satellite Accumulation Point for medical waste in the Core (Stat) Lab. Involved disposing and storing reagents according to the Medical Safety Data Sheet (MSDS).  •Handle morgue operations during off shift in accordance with standard operating procedures.  •Monitor Omega temperature systems for entire lab during off shift. Education Bachelor in Business Management Herzing University-Madison - Madison, WI January 2017 to January 2018 Bachelors of Science in Software Development Herzing University-Madison January 2017 Associates of Science George Washington University May 2012 Skills Management (5 years), System Administrator Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/brandon-kaiser-3a6753129 Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-4, Specialist January 2008 to February 2013 Commendations: Good conduct medal  2x Certificates of Achievement Assessments Technical Support Skills — Expert March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pjypkp-xgiyktqp Basic Computer Skills — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dzof67v0tgajg7zn Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8uce-8g0adjqklqd Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to prioritize and allocate time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/3lpbtpgfhb5aekt Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.