Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - domestic and overseas AOC Fielding Locations and Test/Integration labs for Recurring Event Releases Woodbridge, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator domestic and overseas AOC Fielding Locations and Test/Integration labs for Recurring Event Releases - Hampton, VA 2017 to Present Installs, configures, and manages UNIX and Windows infrastructure servers such as Active Directory, Exchange, MS SQL, VMware, and CITRIX at domestic and overseas AOC Fielding Locations and Test/Integration labs for Recurring Event Releases  Key Accomplishments:    • Deploys, manages, and troubleshoots HBSS agent and end point products  • Runs compliance reports to resolve point product issues, and remediates STIG findings.  • Performs fielding installation support, system backup and restoration, configuration changes, upgrades and troubleshooting.  • Provides installation, post configuration, and data load of Command and Control systems, to include TBMCS, JADOCS, MAAPTK, and GCCS.  • Manages the operation of systems and their scalability and applies security patches and updates.  • Makes technical recommendations based on knowledge and expertise  • Systems Administration of computer communications systems including, system service and log management, and systems auditing, problem report management, performance management.  • Installs, configures, and manages UNIX and Windows infrastructure servers such as Active Directory, Exchange, MS SQL, VMware, and CITRIX at domestic and overseas AOC Fielding locations.  • Performs troubleshooting and repair of C2 systems and Infrastructure servers, and other IT administration related services as directed by RE content. 14J&G - Command Control Computers and Communications Specialist Army National Guard - Fort Bragg, NC 2006 to Present Responsible for technical and tactical expertise and troubleshooting, configuration and installation of all Air Defense and Air Space Management Systems  Key Accomplishments:  • Configured, installed, and operated military communications and missile defense systems. Assisted in implementing new hardware and software upgrades to government developed systems.  • Provided technical and tactical expertise with an in-depth understanding of the Joint Air Defense Operations Center along with joint multi data link operations Forward Area Air Defense (FAAD), Air Management Defense Work Station (AMDWS) Tactical Display Framework (TDF) and Joint Range Extension (JRE).  • Applied knowledge regarding the latest computer, networking, data and communications technologies on Windows/Solaris operating systems and applications, networking standards and methodologies applying best commercial practices and standards.  • Supervised the air and missile defense (AMD) current operations cell; ensured integration of airspace control measures and the air defense plan into digital planning systems, including the Air Missile Defense Workstation (AMDWS) and Tactical Airspace Integrator System (TAIS)  • Supervised the divisions schools and training; prepared the TOC for orders, drills, briefs, and rehearsals  • Trained 4 companies attached to division on how to upgrade, configure, operation, and perform in depth troubleshooting on all ADA systems.  • Wrote division level Tactical Practices and Procedures for all division assigned Air Defense assets Host Based Security Analyst Hewlett Packard - Naval Base, VA 2016 to 2017 Responsible for planning and implementing security measures to protect computer systems, networks, and data for over 10,000 users  Key Accomplishments:  • Administered security controls in support of the DoD utilizing HBSS tools, and McAfee Network Security Manager  • Analyzed vulnerability remediation notices, researched solutions, executed testing, applied policies and pushed solutions.  • Identified potential security threats through proactive review of security alerts and system logs.  • Configured, implemented, and supported anti-virus software patch management.  • Evaluated, created and tuned HIPs events as required to allow legitimate network traffic and end point functionality  • Applied all applicable STIGs, IAVM directives, and CTO instructions to the Cyber Defense architecture.  • Administered ePO tree structure, and policy catalog management  • Planned and implemented security measures to protect computer systems and servers. Field Service Engineer Hewlett Packard 2013 to 2016 Provided a host of IT services to over 10,000 E-VIP, VIP and non-VIP military and civilian Navy personnel at the Pentagon.  Key Accomplishments:  • Provided seat management and Tier III technical-support including: Advanced troubleshooting, Data Encryption / Decryption, Configuration, Installation, Repair and Administration of (End User Devices) and supporting software / Applications.  • Support included all HP products, Dell PCs and Laptops, and some Xerox devices  • Worked with several operation systems - Windows XP, Win 7, 8 and 10  • Possessed a strong working knowledge of the DOD infrastructure requirements and Enterprise class networks.  • Administrated user accounts, and device associations in Active Directory / Remedy  • Analyzed, solved and thoroughly documented complicated network and application errors  • Implemented and facilitated NGEN training program for new hires and veteran staff members  • Functioned as diplomatic liaison between NGEN and end users including EVIP staff  • Involved daily interaction, consultation and counsel with U.S. Navy VIP and EVIP staff including U.S. Secretary of the Navy, Office of Naval Operations, and multiple military senior officials. Watch Officer Hewlett Packard - Quantico, VA 2012 to 2013 Technical liaison for all Navy and USMC IT Services under the NMCI/NGEN contract. Provided Technical Expertise  Key Accomplishments:  • Supervised a team of technical personnel. Liaison that facilitated the service relationship between HP and the USN/USMC, subcontractor and vendors. Provided coordination with key customers, Infrastructure Support Managers, Client Managers and the Account Delivery Managers to maintain service delivery requirements.  • Provided 24/7 input to key military leaders and government personnel on the status of their network, and mission capability of all sites within the intended scope.  • Tracked and provided constant updates on incidents and outages.  • Provided expertise for IT infrastructure (e.g. servers, network) and related services (e.g. Business Continuity) throughout the lifecycle in accordance with contractually established terms and conditions and established technical standards.  • Facilitated technical input, solutions, and recommendations based on feedback provided by internal HP SME's.  • Engaged in, and provided support for transition/transformation efforts for the USMC.  • Worked closely with the business continuity program office, certified by FEMA on the National Incident  • Response System (NIMS) and Incident Command Systems (ICS) in order to provide continuity of service in the event of disaster.  • Served as liaison on new government requirements which included the participation of communication specialists, civil engineers, and building managers.  • Interfaced with the MCNOSC Watch Officer and Leadership on a regular basis.  • Very knowledgeable on USMC IT Policies, procedures, and guidelines.  • Provided customer service to assist in operation, restoration, and configuration of information  systems. Hewlett Packard - Quantico, VA 2010 to 2012 Network Monitor  Responsible identifying and tracking network performance incidents proactively using various network monitoring tools.  Key Accomplishments:  • Met required SLA's and deadlines with success, and solved technical problems on assigned hardware and software platform(s)/application(s) following standard protocols.  • Contributed to the team's ability to meet target goals through participation in continuous service improvement initiatives.  • Responded to customer relations problems promptly and appropriately.  Took ownership to ensure satisfactory completion, through the engagement of appropriate resources.  • Maintained a high level of customer satisfaction by clarifying customer needs and ensuring success.  Worked effectively in group environment. Responded to service, product, technical, and customer relations questions.  • Proactively monitored data and communications networks  Expediently troubleshot incident  • Developed and maintained all Network Operations Center documents, policies, procedures and tools.  • Responded to alerts and alarms in accordance with Standard Operating Procedures and Network Security Protocols.  • Worked with internal and external groups during routine maintenance to ensure the seamless execution of network changes did not impact the Enterprise. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science LIBERTY UNIVERSITY - Lynchburg, VA 2020 Skills Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin, System Administrator Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SSG Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ January 2013 to January 2022 CompTIA Network+ January 2013 to January 2022 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rmvvab9maneu9ahs Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.