Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Ark Technologies Round Rock, TX • Installed, configured, supported servers, switches, routers, firewalls, computers, laptops, peripherals, software, applications, for small, medium and large businesse for over 20 years.  • CCNA CCNP Certified Network professional 8+years of experience in network design, implementation, and support.  • Routing, switching, firewall technologies, system design, implementation and troubleshooting of complex network systems.  • Worked on network topologies and configurations, TCP/IP, UDP, Frame Relay, ATM, bridges, routers, hubs and switches.  • Configured Cisco Catalyst 6500, 4500, 3850, 3750, 2960 switches and Cisco 3600, 7200& ASR 1K & 9k Routers for an enterprise network.  • Worked on Juniper Net Screen Firewalls like, NS50, SSG 550M, SSG520M, ISG 1000, and ISG 200.  • Knowledge of implementing and troubleshooting complex L2/L3 technologies such as VLAN Trunks, VTP Ether channel, STP, RSTP, MPLS and MST.  • Implementation of Juniper Firewall, SSG Series, Net screen Series ISG 1000, SRX Series.  • In-depth knowledge and experience in WAN technologies including OC3, E3/T3, E1/T1, Point to Point, MPLS and Frame Relay  • Experience in Configuring and implementing VLAN, VTP domains, LAN switching and STP/RSTP', Comprehensive Knowledge about TCP/IP and OSI models.  • Worked on latest cisco switches like Nexus 9000, 7018, 5548, 5020 and 5010, implemented advanced features like VDC, VPC, OTV and configured top of the row Fabric Extenders 2248 and 2232.  • Hands on experience in building Cisco ACI fabric (policy groups, switch profiles, etc.), tenants - VRFs, Endpoint Groups, Contracts  • Expert level hands on experience in configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols and deployment of OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, HSRP and Pbr, Pfr on Cisco Routers.  • Worked on Cisco ASR Routers 100X and on edge network ASR9000 XR platform.  • Experience in implementing, maintaining, and troubleshooting L2 switching tasks: VLANs, VTP, VLAN Trunking (ISL/802.1Q), STP, RSTP, PVST, PVST+, CST, CEF and DCEF.  • Experience in T1/E1/T3 technologies and different LAN & WAN technologies.  • Managed F5 BigIP GTM/LTM appliances to include writing iRules, SSL offload and everyday task of creating WIP and VIPs  • Experienced in implementing and managing F5 BIG-IP load balancing, including GTM, APM, ASM, and custom iRule development.  • Planned and worked on design with Network team to re-architect F5 load-balancers to load-balance traffic anywhere in the company network.  • Troubleshooting with layer 2 and layer 3 devices.  • Actively participated in upgrading fast Ethernet, Layer 3 switched/routed LAN infrastructure from Cisco 3640 to Cisco 2811 ISR routers and switches at access level to 2950, 3550.  • Well understanding of Cisco UCS and M-Series Modular servers to enable centralized management of highly scalable system and to speed-up IT operations.  • Worked extensively in Configuring, Monitoring and Troubleshooting Checkpoint security appliance, Failover DMZ zoning & configuring VLANs/routing/NATing with the firewalls per design.  • Well understanding of implementing and configuring F5 Big-IP LTM-6400, and 6900 Load Balancers.  • Experience in deployment of Blue Coat as proxy and firewall solution to provide secure and optimum access of web service.  • Supported Integration of Riverbed Steelhead-7050 and Interceptor-9350 optimizer appliances into Nexus platforms in Data Centers.  • Hands on working experience on Firewalls and Cisco ASA, Experience in QOS on multicast VPN  • Experience on Wide area application services  • Experience in Cisco: Physical cabling, IP addressing, Wide Area Network configurations (Frame-relay & MPLS), Routing protocol configurations (RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, and BGP)  • Proficiency in configuration of VLAN setup on various CISCO Routers and Switches.  • Hands-on configuration and experience in setting up Cisco routers to perform functions at the Access, Distribution, and Core layers.  • Experience in site-to-site and remote access VPN solutions.  • Good Experience on ITIL framework  • Knowledge of implementing and troubleshooting complex layer 2 technologies such as VLAN Trunks, VTP Ether channel, STP, RSTP and MST.  • Extensive hand on experience with complex routed LAN networks, CISCO Routers and Switches.  • Working configuration of new VLANs and extension of existing VLANs on/to the necessary equipment to have connectivity between two different data centers.  • Experience working in Cloud infrastructure with VMware ESXi Server platforms for application servers. Network Configuration for server apps and app migrations support  • In-depth expertise in the analysis, implementation, troubleshooting & documentation of LAN/WAN architecture and good experience on IP services.  • Involved in design and implementation of Data Center Migration, worked on implementation strategies for the expansion of the MPLS VPN networks  • Experience through Hand-on Experience with configuring T1.5, Gigabit Ethernet, Channelized T3 and full T3, OCX, ATM, Frame-Relay and VOIP (Voice-Over Internet Protocol)  • Experienced working on network monitoring and analysis tools like, SOLAR WINDS, CISCO works and RIVERBED and Wireshark.  • Experience with Infoblox DNS, DHCP, IPAM and reporting server.  • Extensive experience in configuring and troubleshooting of protocols RIP v1/v2, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP and MPLS.  • Well experienced in configuring HSRP, GLBP, ICMP, PPP, PAP, CHAP and SNMP.  • Excellent communication skills, enthusiastic, motivated and a team player.  • Experience in installing and configuring DNS, DHCP server.  • Experience with Change management process and Project documentation tools like Excel and VISIO. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Ark Technologies - Bloomfield Hills, MI October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Provide computer network support, onsite, and remotely using Kaseya Remote Management solution  • for clients in Medical, Investment, Insurance, Government, and Manufacturing.  • Support Windowsserver 2012, 2008, Windows 10, and Windows 7.  • Support hosted Exchange through AppRiver, and hostedMicrosoft email services through Rackspace, and in-house Exchange 2013 servers.  • Supported Office 365,Office 2016, and Office 2010. Applied server and workstation patches via Kaseya Update portal.  • Support Sonicwall Tz190, Tz210, Tz300 firewalls, and NetGear FVs firewalls.  • Created VPN connections between sites. Configured, and setup port forwarding, network, and ip range policies for proper access for PBX cloud based server and local phone access. Configured Sonicwall Sonic Point and Engeniusn wireless access points for use in Epion devices, laptops, tablets, phones. Applied security protocols blocked sites, and allowed access to sites based on client preferences and recommended standards.  • Updated firmware, maintained licenses, and configured IPS, GW, and Spam services on Firewalls.  • Create, and support server GPO policies, for Server 2012, 2008, Office 2010, 2016 Office 365  • Gpo templates.  • Support Microsoft Print Management, deploying printers, updating drivers and applying correct security access to print queues for end users. Created GPO policies for screen saver timeout, file templates, folder redirection, home folder redirection, certificates, desktop redirection.  • Support local user roaming profiles for server 2012, and Windows 7 OS.  • Install, configure, troubleshoot, diagnose, and repair servers, computers, printers, copiers and related  • peripherals.  • Train end users using Microsoft Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, server 2012r2,  • server 2008r2.  • Setup WSUS, DNS, DHCP, create Active Directory users, create Group Policies and  • backup solutions using Windows Netbackup, local Acronis applications, and Acronis cloud backup  • solutions.  • Configured, supported, and maintained Kaseya remote backup solution using Acronis backup software.  • Monitored backup job logs, for onsite and remote backup logs.  • Restored files and created disaster  • recovery plan working with clients on proper methods for accessing data in case access to data files  • was not possible.  • Created Hippa compliant IT infrastructure environment for medical surgical facilities and trained personnel on proper compliance for Hippa policies and procedures.  • Created Office 365 domain, created office 365 user accounts, installed Office 365 apps.  • Used BitTitan Migration Wiz to migrate exchange mail boxes from appriver hosted exchange, to Office 365 hosted domain. Coordinated and worked with Hitachi CRM support services implementing Outlook add on for Client Resource management solution.  • Configured Ipad, Iphones, Android, Surface pro, and Dell Latitude laptops for Office 365 email access, and CRM access solution.  • Installed, configured, and Supported Kaspersky Antivirus, Mcaffe antivirus on workstations, and servers.  • Removed malware, spyware, viruses, created and document log files for end client review, and summary.  • Setup, configured, maintained Citrix Share File access, and Outlook secure email plug-in. Systems Administrator FiServ - Troy, MI September 2014 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Support Credit Union financial institutions in day to day activities utilizing proprietary software in a  • lan\wan environment. Provide phone support and remote desktop support for end users, servers,  • routers, switches, firewalls, pc's, and printers.  • Support Cicso, 881, 1841, and 1941 series routers, along with HP, and Cisco switches. Support Sonicwall, and Fortigate firewalls. Manage vpn clients, Vasco security tokens and remote server connections.  • All hardware and software at a Credit Union is supported.  • Installed Server 2012r2 on Dell Servers, configured Raid drives. Implemented Active Directory security  • rights applying Organizational Units and Group Policy granting proper security permissions, for users,  • groups. Support Server 2003, 2008, 2012, adding Roles, and Features.  • WSUS, Desktop Experience, etc. Supported ESXI 5.5, 6.0 VMware virtual servers, supporting host, data center, virtual devices, data stores.  • Tested Citrix Xenapp, Citrix Xendesktop in non production environment for remote client access.  • Installed Exchange, 2013, 2016 servers, applied updates, quotas, smtp connectors, integrated with  • Imail host site.  • Setup full configuration of Email sever internal to the location. Backup Exec 2012, Evault cloud storage, using tape drive, and disk drives. Installed SQL 2008, SQL 2005, and Windows Internal Database.  • Trouble-shot virtual severs, and terminal Servers 2003, 2008, 2012.  • Installed Remote Desktop Services on Server 2012.  • Migrate data shares, User profiles, Exchange mailboxes from Server 2003 to Server 2012. Used OP Manager device management to monitor servers, routers, firewalls, computers, connections.  • Use proprietary web based ticket system.  • Installed Mcafee Total protection client, troubleshot Mcafee client issues, and allowed and blocked access to websites.  • Setup, configured, and supported Symantec Endpoint Manager, clients, installed licensing, blocked access to devicesusing Symantec Endpoint Manager.  • Setup, and configured, supported Symantec Message Gateway email hosting, and Symantec Web Gateway proxy management applications for hosted clients. Blocked and allowed access to websites using Symantec Web Gateway.  • Supported Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012 WSUS, Backup Exec 2012, 2014, Exchange 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013.  • Symantec Endpoint Manager, Kaspersky Endpoint Suite, and McAfee antivirus products. Installed Antispyware, removed spyware, viruses, worked with vendors to remove ransom ware.  • Familiar with PCI compliance, Microsoft Auditing compliance. Used Power Shell script applets, Exchange Power Shell,andbatch files.  • Support Office 2013,Office 2010, Office 2007, and Desktop Operating systems of Windows XP,  • Windows 7, Windows 8.1. Windows 10. Support Google Chrome, Firefox, and Internert Explorer 11. Verified computers are getting Windows Updates, Antivirus updates, and are virus free, and in good health with periodic maintenance.  • Deployed application updates using SCCM, setup print servers, and virtual print servers.  • Support virtual IP computer connections hosetd on IBM Unix servers, using proprietary software applications. Configured Dell pc's, and Dell Servers for use onsite at Credit Unions. Supported MPLS circuits, working with AT&T Business direct, and various ISP's throughout the USA troubleshooting Internet ,and Circuit Issues. Network Administrator/TechSupportSpecialist HES - Dearborn Heights, MI August 2011 to September 2014 • Implemented Active Directory security rights identity scheme utilizing Organizational Unit Structure and Group Policy applying security permissions, for users, groups.  • Supported Server 2003, 2008, setup DNS forward, reverse lookup zones, DHCP scopes, and reservations based on mac addresess, Configured Routing and Remote Access Services monitoring tcp\ip logs, VPN tunnels using VNC,applying IP settings for WAN connectivity.  • Tested, installed, configured, and managed Arcserve 11.5 disaster recovery software, and Symantec  • Backup Exec 2012. Monitored daily backup routine, documented backup logs, and routinely  • restored user files, and exchange mail boxes. Installed configured supported HP Procurve 2848 switches Cisco 1900 series routers, implemented OSPF protocols, and familiar with setting up VLans.  • Installed, configured, tested Sonic Wall Firewalls, ISA 2006, and Websense web filtering software in  • order to secure the intranet, and external perimeter zones.  • Monitored Server Evnet logs, Firewall logs, Websense logs for activity tested access inside and out of organization for proper access, and security.  • Installed and tested HP Procurve 420 Access points district wide.  • Supported Tapit phone usage tracking application on Unix phone system server, using Avaya PBX phone systems.  • Completed infrastructure wiring when needed.  • Setup Exchange 2003, Exchange 2007 mailboxes, configured quotas and monitored logs.  • Setup print server, print management, gave users and groups access to print devices.  • Created TCP\IP ports, added drivers, and managed print queues. Supported HP 4050, 4100, 4350 network printers.  • Configured Ricoh multifunction copier\printer\email scanners devices, applying correct tcp/ip settings smtp, user rights, and user back up files for disaster recover.  • Supported Office 2010, Office 2007, Office 97-2003. Desktop Operating systems of Windows XP Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 8.1.  • PowerGrade grading, and attendance program. Maintained network of over 450 computers, laptops for Star International Academy, and 95 computers and laptops for Noor International Academy. Installed Smart Boards, projectors, and supported video conferencing sessions.  • Setup, and configured Symantec Antivirus\ Kaspersky corporate editions, supported Follett library data base application. Wrote detailed documentation for end users on how to use applications, hardware and various technology used onsite, for Smart Boards, peripherals, email, web access, online applications, and video conferencing using web ex. Network Administrator GREYHOUND TECHNOLOGIES - Clinton Township, MI July 2008 to August 2011 • Onsite network administration, providing total support for all server functions, routers, switches.  • Including Active Directory, Print Services, Applications, Server hardware, PC's, and Peripherals. Consulted with business owners, administration, staff on current technology and future growth plans.  • Supported Windows Millennium, 2000, XP Home, and Professional.  • Sold and recommended hardware upgrades. Installed all internal hardware and software, patch panel, wiring, switches, routers, waps, servers, workstations, peripherals and verified all was functioning, and accessible. Trained staff on new hardware and workstations.  • Installed, configured, and supported Windows 2003 server, 2000 server, and NT 4.0 server.  • Supported ISA 2000, Proxy 2.0, Exchange 2003, and 2000, in domain environments. Installed and configured Surfcontrol, and Websense internet web filter applications.  • Setup, configured Norton Antivirus corporate editions, supported Follett library data base application. Supported Tapit phone usage tracking application, and Unix phone system administration using an Avaya phone system on a Unix server. Supported Polycom video broadcast device via ISDN connection to online video conference events.  • Installed, and configured Netgear, Linksys, and Cisco, switches, and wireless routers for internet access. Setup firewall security, and blocked or restricted website access.  • Configured, and trouble-shot multi device wireless environments, and access points.  • Installed, and configured Backup Exec 7.0, 8.0 for daily backup scheme advising customer base on safe, and reliable backup procedures. Installed internal, and external tape devices from Compaq, HP, Seagate in servers, and workstations. Used Microsoft backup schemes.  • Supported, installed and configured Win95, Win98, Win98se, Millennium, XP home, and XP professional operating systems. Installed pc's into multi Server, workgroup, and standalone configuration's. Education MCSE Microware Education center - Farmington Hills, MI C.N.A Control Data Institute - Southfield, MI Associates degree in business Macomb Community College - Warren, MI