Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Systems Management Branch Fountain, CO Dedicated leader with over 16 years of military experience, all of which are in the Network / IT Field. Proficient in  managing a classified and unclassified network. Maintained and administered computer networks and related  computing. Qualifications include:    • Complex problem solving • Network Administrator • Systems Administrator  • Telephone Control Officer • Active Directory Users & Computers • Spectrum  • Remedy • System Center Configuration Manager • Windows Server Update Services Work Experience Systems Administrator Systems Management Branch - Fort Carson, CO January 2019 to Present Rivertech - Fort Carson, Colorado    • Tasked to build a Centralized Aviation Flight Record System (CAFRS) server for a unit at Fort Carson.  It was completed in a timely manner successfully with no downtime to the user.  • Provide technical assistance, attention to detail and support for incoming tickets and issues related  to servers which include IIS services and Active Directory Users and Computers.  • Performed active directory creations and deletions of 17,000 user accounts to include security  groups and elevated users on the classified and unclassified network.  • Tasked to maintain WSUS updates of 33 servers to ensure they always in 90% compliance  • Respond to tickets averaging at a minimum of 200 monthly. Information Management Officer Department of Emergency Services - Fort Carson, CO April 2018 to January 2019 Rivertech - Fort Carson, Colorado    • Provide technical assistance, attention to detail and support for incoming tickets and issues related to computer systems, software, hardware, and printer functionality for 200 Department of Emergency  Services (DES) users.  • Respond to queries either in person or over the phone.  • Wrote training manuals that ensured the user steady transition in the account process and also ensured  any day to day software needed for specific jobs were handled at the lowest level.  • Respond to ticketing systems and communicate with customers seeking help.  • Install, modify, and repair computer hardware and software.  • Run diagnostic programs to resolve problems.  • Resolve technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN), Wide Area Networks (WAN), and other  systems. IT Help Desk Support Specialist I of the Customer Management Branch Fort Carson, CO November 2017 to April 2018 GSTek - Fort Carson, Colorado    • Provide technical assistance, attention to detail and support for incoming tickets and issues related to computer systems, software, and hardware for all users in the Fort Carson region.  • Respond to queries either in person or over the phone.  • Write training manuals that are used by the help desk and users alike.  • Train computer users and maintain daily performance of computer systems.  • Respond to ticketing systems and communicate with customers seeking help.  • Install, modify, and repair computer hardware and software.  • Run diagnostic programs to resolve problems.  • Resolve technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN), Wide Area Networks (WAN), and other  systems. Network Administrator NSB - Okinawa, JP February 2016 to November 2017 Japan  United States Army Network Enterprise Center - Okinawa, U.S. Army    • In charge of CCRI, RMF and switch lifecycle replacement. Ensured over 50 unclassified switches  and 20 unclassified switches were configured and put on the network with minimum downtime.  • Managed cryptographic COMSEC devices such KIV-7, KG-175A, and KG-175D for secure, encrypted  transmissions over an unclassified network which maintained a 99% uptime rate.  • Conducted technical, operational and network maintenance training to all subordinates on the network  operation procedures ensuring there was no single point of failure.  • Managed a network that provided classified and unclassified communications to approximately 1,500  users guaranteeing all missions were accomplished around the Island.  • Managed Cisco and Brocade Switches and Routers for network operations, utilizing network monitoring  tools such as SPECTRUM to optimize network efficiency and reporting resulting in timely turnaround  time for network outages.  • Defined and established general network communications planning objectives and assisted in defining  overall basic and contingent automation communication needs for United States Army Network  Enterprise Center - Okinawa during the Command Cyber Readiness Inspection and Risk Management  framework inspection resulting in a positive rating during this time. Systems Administrator SSB - Okinawa, JP February 2015 to February 2016 Japan  United States Army Network Enterprise Center - Okinawa, U.S. Army    • Served as a technical expert and focal point for the installation and configuration of hardware and software on workstations associated with assigned systems for 1,500 users  • Served as a systems administrator responsible for planning, coordinating, modifying, implementing, and troubleshooting in order to meet customer needs. Work pertains to the administration of all systems,  including a myriad of associated hardware platforms, software applications and numerous interfaces  included in the Local Area Network (LAN).  • Served as a technical expert on multiple operating systems and computer platforms. Determined  equipment and communications requirements and interfaces with other systems.  • Coordinated customer requests for Enterprise Network related services ensuring consistency of customer support.  • Worked with managers to evaluate the impact of procedures and work instructions on the delivery of vendor and government provided IT services.  • Implemented systems software changes, operating system releases and maintains the operational status  of user systems.  • Managed, coordinated and integrated Information Technology services, processes and associated  methodologies within the Enterprise Network, aligning to current IT Service Management Guidelines and IT Service Catalogs within multiple and interrelated service processes and their lifecycles.  • Coordinated with team members in resolving hardware and/or software issues.  • Installed and configured workstation or network operating systems, and applications software on a wide  range of configurable information systems devices. Enforced command standards for hardware and software configurations. Telecommunications Chief TSB - Okinawa, JP October 2014 to February 2015 Japan  United States Army Network Enterprise Center - Okinawa, U.S. Army    • Managed the accounts of over 400 wireless phone users and 2000 DSN lines for all army on Okinawa  ensuring commands were available anywhere.  • Implemented the TCO portal on SharePoint; this allowed user to sign their individual bills online, making  it easier to track and distribute to the costumer. It improved work and increased productivity from 50%  to 80%.  • Provided assistance with programming phones ensuring a seamless transition of user information  transferred to the phone resulting in a lower rate of malfunction/data loss for the user. Education BS in Information Systems Security American Military University - Charles Town, WV Present Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Staff Sergeant Certifications/Licenses Security+ February 2017 to February 2020 Network+ February 2017 to February 2020 A+ Certified February 2017 to February 2020 Assessments Technical Support — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vsnndiwkv7jr0e03 Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v70hc2xgnti3whsb Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rabo0hfiqei7chyx Problem Solving — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tdaisjzj0ldhdb3n Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.