Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - CACI Inc Woodbridge, VA To obtain a position within an establishment that will utilize my technological, engineering and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Systems Administrator CACI Inc October 2017 to Present • Maintain system efficiency  • Troubleshoot login and connection issues reported by the users  • Review system logs and disable unnecessary services on servers  • Coordinate and maintain projects to meet the customer need.  • Install and configure Windows Server 2008 and 2012 in a cluster environment.  • Maintain File, Application, Print, and User servers in a 2003, 2008 and 2012 environment.  • Server load balance to maintain optimum performance on user and application servers.  • Created and managed Virtual Servers using VMWare.  • Create share folder and created DFS links.  • Perform data restoration on Window 2012, 2008 and 2003 Servers using DPM and Tivoli.  • Perform weekly server maintenance. Define, isolate, and resolve hardware and software related issues.  • Manage Active Directory which includes creating server groups, modifying group and user permissions.  • Assist users in resolving Tier 2 and Tier 3 related workstation and software issues.  • Install and configures Tivoli and perform periodic checks to make sure backups are running properly.  • Perform Infrastructure server upgrades as new releases are needed.  • Worked with Virtual Server engineers with migrating physical servers to a virtual server environment Armed Security Officer Omniplex World Services/Constellis Inc - Chantilly, VA October 2016 to Present • Provide security protection and access control.  • Provide security protection for all government property, classified material and personnel within assigned areas of responsibility to preclude unauthorized access, theft, or intentional destruction.  • Report/respond to unusual or emergency situations.  • Be alert for potential security, property or safety concerns and initiate the appropriate actions.  • Control ingress/egress into and/or out of posted/controlled/security areas.  • Prevent/report all violations of security and safety rules and regulations.  • Respond to protective alarm signals or other unusual/suspicious activities.  • Maintain a working knowledge of all security and guard orders, written and oral, pertaining to the assigned duties.  • Perform other duties as assigned. Systems Engineer Jacobs, FNS January 2017 to October 2017 • Create standard operating procedures and publish articles for Server Administrators and Engineers  • Possess well-developed technical and analytical skills to work closely with Service Partners  • Troubleshoot and identify broken processes and resolve trouble incidents  • Quality control planning and integration and validation of Field Deployment software via applications, patches, security updates, and other customer deployment methods  • Perform script verification checks by reviewing event logs and back logs  • Validate engineering scripts in ELAN and Production systems  • Provide technical guidance, training, and leadership for personnel on current and new operations    • Assist users by solving various computer issues  • Coordinate installation, test, maintain, and monitor computer programs and systems  • Provide Tier III and IV technical support in a complex mission critical windows-based environment Principal Comp Network Technologist General Dynamics Inc - Chantilly, VA April 2013 to December 2016 • Provided engineering support for various networks, platform technologies (e.g. AIN, CWE, Lotus Notes and JWICS, SIPRNET, thin-client)  • Participated in discussions with customer to define, collect, and implement customer computer engineering requirements, design and develop engineering solutions  • Coordinated with other IT service providers and components in order to diagnose and resolve incidents requiring in-depth analysis and troubleshooting actions  • Conducted technical research by accessing internal and external knowledge bases to provide insight into possible solutions Telecommunications Specialist Prysm Technologies Inc - Fairfax, VA September 2011 to April 2013 • Maintained/defected rectification of network equipment/ circuits and inform partners of all planned work and faults  • Evaluated communication hardware and software & troubleshoot LAN/WAN and network related problems  • Provided technical expertise for performance and configuration of networks Senior Systems Analyst SAIC Inc July 2010 to August 2011 Hendon, VA  • Provided system-level support of multi-user operating systems and associated subsystems  • Identified alternatives for optimizing computer resources  • Recommended changes to hardware and/or software solutions to improve system reliability/performance  • Diagnosed hardware and software problems and replaced defective components  • Performed data backups, disaster recovery operations, and system performance monitoring Senior Network Engineer General Dynamics Inc - Chantilly, VA January 2009 to July 2010 • Performed system/circuit operational mapping and configuration changes as required  • Utilized test equipment to measure the loss of synchronization, signaling, and station clocking  • Assisted various Network Support Groups to resolve more in depth network issues  • Documented and analyzed network performance data for presentation to review boards Tier 1 &2 Network Engineer Perot Systems - Fairfax, VA December 2007 to December 2009 • Acted as point-of-contact for helpdesk diagnosing, troubleshooting, and resolving approx. 100 tickets daily  • Checked port activity, settings and traffic flow on Cisco routers and switches  • Worked with users & support teams to ensure the functionality of desktop devices & applicable software  • Provided technical support to client hardware and software applications Armed Security Officer Vance Uniformed Protection Service Inc - Chantilly, VA March 2004 to May 2008 • Protected and secured Top Secret facilities in the Northern Virginia area  • Responsible for providing security services for visitors, protecting entity buildings and vehicles CEO/President Ford's Hauling Service, LLC - Fredericksburg, VA October 2005 to December 2007 • Managed trucking contracts  • Hired and supervised drivers Associate Network Engineer AOL Time Warner, Inc - Dulles, VA September 1998 to March 2004 • Examined and promptly determined reason(s) for network failures using Cisco Works; from LANs to WANs  • Provided first and second tier response and diagnosis for troubleshooting firewall issues  • Monitored network server and web applications for immediate availability  • Opened, updated and closed trouble tickets with detailed information on trouble reported  • Managed all activity on Cisco routers and switches  • Performed routine maintenance on routers and switches  • Configured, installed, and removed routers and switches Customer Engineer IBM - Augusta, GA June 1991 to September 1998 • Responded directly to clients to rapidly resolve any hardware difficulties with IBM products  • Repaired or replace necessary PC, server, point of sale system or scanner to quickly restore full functionality for client  • Performed server upgrades, installed new operating systems or latest version of existing operating system  • Installed and/or repaired HP and IBM printers  • Built LAN's per specification Amour Crewman/Loader on the M1A1 Abrams Tank United States Army - Fort Knox, KY 1990 to 1991 Education Certificate Germanna Community College - Fredericksburg, VA 1994