Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - San Manuel Band of Mission Indians Corona, CA Hardworking and adaptable Information Technology Professional with 8 years of experience administrating networks, Exchange, servers, helpdesk, site surveys, network planning and implementation, satellite communications, and radio communications as a Systems Administrator. 4 years of leadership and management experience. Strong skills in managing and participating in a team environment, as well as completing tasks independently. Work Experience Systems Administrator San Manuel Band of Mission Indians October 2017 to Present Manage and maintain 600+ windows and linux virtual servers across two datacenters utilizing VMware 6.5 virtualization technologies. Manage and maintain four Microsoft Active Directory forests with 9 domains in support of casino gaming, tribal, retail, dispatch, and hospitality systems. Support Exchange 2016 systems and infrastructure to provide email services to 2500 employees.  Professional Accomplishments:  • Configured and deployed SCCM Current Branch across the enterprise in both business and gaming windows environments, providing the ability for centralized management of windows and application update packages. In doing so, created the ability to maintain and validate compliance with Security's policy of being 100% up to date on patches within 30 days of release of patch.  • Establish the new AD organizational structure for ease of administration of users, computers, groups, and group policy. In doing so, I was able to cleanup over 300 GPOs that were no longer useful, incorrectly configured, or no longer applied within the enterprise.  • Created and implemented a standard "Secure Baseline" Policy across Enterprise Workstations based on CIS Benchmarks that best aligned security controls with business operations.  • Manage Exchange 2016 mailboxes, aligning the infrastructure and implementation with best practices.  • Implement Skype for Business IM and Persistent Chat rooms. Systems Administrator University of California Riverside - Riverside, CA June 2015 to October 2017 Maintain 300+ Windows Servers in a VMWare and Hyper-V High-Availability Environment across 3 datacenters. Manage 800+ end users and workstations across 4 Active Directory Domains. Provide tier 2 and tier 3 application support for campus systems in support of UCR's Students Health Center, Housing Services, Dining Services, Student Affairs, and the Dean of Students. Design, implement, and manage datacenter solutions with storage, server, network, backup, and security infrastructure. Responsible for maintaining HIPAA, HITECH, PCI, FERPA, and PII policies. Reduce operational and capital expenditures by consolidating, redesigning, migrating, and decommissioning legacy or duplicate systems.  Professional Accomplishments:  • Architect and implement a new backup solution that decreased costs by 50% and increased availability and disaster recovery capabilities.  • Consolidate 14 standalone hyper-v servers by building a 2012 R2 hyper-v failover cluster reducing hardware and software maintenance costs and licensing.  • Retire and consolidate 80+ servers bringing server footprint down to 226 servers.  • Managed 10 major projects while maintaining or improving business process.  • Implement SCOM and SCCM to manage and maintain server and workstations throughout domain.  • Deploy Remote App environment for HIPAA, housing, and Access Control systems  • Install Cisco 5500 Firewalls in front of on campus housing networks providing improved security for 10,000 + students and staff.  • Installed RSA appliance and deployed 2 factor authentication using RSA for remote access VPNs Data Network Specialist United States Marine Corps July 2011 to May 2015 Support and maintain data communications via radio, satellite, and cabled networks. Design and implement network architectures. Provide Tier 1 and Tier 2 support for Marine Corps systems. Maintain communications to support operational capacities while providing 99% network and system up time. Maintain security requirements and policies for unclassified and classified networks. Provide 100% accountability of all equipment designated under control. Mentor and train Marines. Lead and be a part of a team to accomplish operational objectives.    Professional Accomplishments:  • Supervise a helpdesk of 15 people that supported 10,000 + clients with an average of 800 tickets a day opened and closed.  • Design and implement networks for 400 workstations and users in a kinetic environment.  • Maintain accountability and maintenance of over $10 million of equipment.  • Provide IT solutions for project and operation planning  • Planned and Managed the upgrade of 300 + workstations from Windows XP to Windows 7 Education High School Diploma John F. Kennedy Middle College June 2011 Skills Active Directory (8 years), System Administrator (8 years), System Admin (8 years), Vmware (5 years), Microsoft Office (8 years), Network Administrator (6 years), Cisco (6 years), Windows Server (6 years), Management (2 years), SCCM (3 years), Powershell (3 years) Certifications/Licenses MCSA September 2018 to Present MCSA windows server 2016 Vmware Certified Associate (VCA) January 2018 to Present Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) January 2018 to January 2020