Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Department of the Navy Kensington, MD Seasoned Windows Systems administrator with 8 years experience in Department of Defense as a contractor and a Federal Employee. Seeking a IT career in the private sector to broaden my horizons. Have served in supervisory and in instructor capacities as well. Have a BS in Information Systems management (IT Business Analyst). Work Experience Systems Administrator Department of the Navy - Washington, DC January 2016 to Present 3450 Massachusetts Ave. NW  Washington DC, DC 20392 United States    01/2016 - Present  Salary: 60,666.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 40  Series: 2210 Pay Plan: GS Grade: 9  Systems Administrator (This is a federal job)  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Migrated USNO Enterprise from Windows 7 to Windows 10. Perform installation/integration of Dell and MAC hardware, Windows 10 and Mac OSX operating  systems, and applications software, system fixes, updates and enhancements. Manage accounts, network rights, and access to computer systems through Active Directory. Manage systems resources including performance, capacity, availability, integrity, efficiency, serviceability, and recovery. Implement security  procedures and tools, and ensure application of information assurance policies, principles, and practices in delivery of system administration services. Develop and document systems administration standard operating procedures. Resolve hardware/software interface interoperability problems. Maintain systems  configuration in accordance with systems administration best practices and Department of Defense security requirements by maintaining a standard image and  group policies. Perform systems administration duties on Windows 10 and MAC OSX systems and have begun familiarization on Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.  Ensure backup procedures are in place for recovery from loss or destruction of data by maintaining profile and backup servers.  Supervisor: Danny Matthews (2027620100)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes IT Instructor MJLM - Houston, TX November 2014 to January 2016 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  As a contractor with Department of Labor/JobCorps managed the daily operations of an IT and Office Administration classroom. Responsible for writing and updating training materials pertaining to the prescribed curriculum catering to current industry and workplace standards. Manage a Local Area Network  consisting of 1 router 13 computers and 2 printers. Trained 30+ students in the areas of Office Administration including training and certifying them in Microsoft  Office Word, Excel, and PowerPoint.  Supervisor: Jim McKnight (4433061029)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    Self/ UMUC  2816 Schubert Drive  Silver Spring, MD 20904 United States    07/2012 - 05/2014  Salary: 26,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 40  Full Time Student/Volunteer  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Attended classes and completed coursework on a weekly and daily basis maintained a 3.297/4.0 GPA. Coursework included analyzing case studies and performed gap analysis to determine functional requirements for enterprises. Worked within teams to identify and determine best solutions for new and existing  infrastructure and web applications. Utilized the Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and relevant documentation to handle the integration of systems from cradle to the grave. Conducted testing to evaluate success. Created schedules to conduct training sessions. Graduated with a Bachelor's of Science in  Information Systems Management.  Supervisor: Justin Runyan (3015255664)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    Columbia Technological Services  Marbury Rd  Oakton, MD 22124 United States    03/2011 - 09/2012  Salary: 90,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 60  https://www.usajobs.gov/Applicant/ProfileDashboard/Resumes 1/3  7/31/2019 Print Resume  President/Owner/Site Manager  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Responsible for the growth, direction, and stability of the organization. Overall responsible for daily operations. Responsible for business plan. Set organizational  budget and evaluated financial reports. Hired and managed subcontractors and staff. Responsible for contract procurement (contract proposals). Managed  deliverables for Service Level Agreements (SLA's). Provided detailed reports to customers. Incorporated Columbia Technological Services (CTS) LLC. a Service  Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) in March 2011. Received contract award from Ellsworth Air Force Base to install a wireless generator  monitoring system on 33 remote sites. As a site manager oversaw the installation of 33 Motorola Canopy, Line of Site, Subscriber Modules and established  communication from the remote sites to the Base Station server.  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    Reliatrust Technologies Inc.  22648 Glenn Dr.  Sterling, VA 20164 United States    03/2007 - 08/2011  Salary: 50,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 40  Team Lead/ Systems Administrator/Deputy Project Manager  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Supervised a team of ten personnel which monitor network integrity for the Department of the Army covering six sites across the United States during 24x7  operations. Responsible for writing, implementing, and maintaining numerous Standard Operating Procedures (SOP's). Responsible for maintaining the network  diagram and Master Escalation List (MEL). Responsible for personnel training within the Corporate Information Operation Center (CIOC). Responsible for the software management of over four thousand Dell desktops and one thousand Dell laptops within the enterprise. Performed testing and support for all software  updates and pushes. Maintained a 99.5% network availability rate over a period of 4 years. Maintained a 99% enterprise system management rate over a period  of 4 years. Oversaw the integration and implementation of a printer management program.  Supervisor: Kenny Young (3013941847)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    United States Army  Fort Gordon  Augusta, GA 30905 United States    08/2004 - 11/2006  Hours per week: 40  IT Site Manager/ Instructor  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Provided communications support for Leaders College of Information Technology. Supervised and prepared work schedules for personnel performing the installation and operation of multichannel and tropospheric scatter radio systems. Provided technical assistance to subordinate team members during  installation, operation and troubleshooting. Wrote SOP's pertaining to multichannel equipment operations. Developed training programs for subordinate  personnel to ensure job competency. Supervised and performed management and administrative responsibilities related to personnel, systems operation and logistics. Supervised a team of seventeen personnel, seventeen vehicles, and fourteen communications systems worth over 8.6 million dollars. Trained over  1200 Signal Officer Basic Course (SOBC) Lieutenants. Received Army Commendation Medal (ARCOM) for maintaining the most reliable communications  network throughout eighteen field- training exercises.    United States Army  Underwood Kaserne  Hanau, Hessen Germany    09/2001 - 08/2004  Hours per week: 40  Communications Supervisor  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Supervised and prepared work schedules for personnel performing the installation and operation of multichannel and tropospheric scatter radio systems.  Provided technical assistance to subordinate team members during installation, operation and troubleshooting. Wrote SOP's pertaining to multichannel  equipment operations. Developed training programs for subordinate personnel to ensure job competency. Supervised and performed management and administrative responsibilities related to personnel, systems operation and logistics. Provided communications for a Company through eight table VII  certifications, one table XII certification, and a NATO operational assessment. Supervised five technicians and two communications assemblages providing one  hundred and twenty days of constant communications between the PATRIOT and Israeli Arrow weapon systems during Operation Juniper Cobra and Operation  Iraqi Freedom. Wrote the first communications training and evaluation program used by the Battalion. Received Army Commendation Medal (ARCOM) for teams' flawless performance during operations and evaluations. Served as Unit COMSEC Custodian.  Supervisor: Derek Fussell (915-218-7216)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    United States Army  Fort Stewart  Fort Stewart, GA 31315 United States    10/1997 - 09/2001  Hours per week: 40  Communications Supervisor  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Supervised eight personnel in Fire Direction operations including preparation for operations, network installation, and maintenance. Supervised data processing, support planning, and execution of fire mission information. Supervised movement control, mission support, and scheduling for a company level element.  Received ARCOM for team's performance during Intrinsic Action 98-03 and Operation Desert Fox. Recognized for having the best Platoon Operations Center  two consecutive years (ARCOM).    https://www.usajobs.gov/Applicant/ProfileDashboard/Resumes 2/3  7/31/2019 Print Resume Full Time Student/Volunteer Self/ UMUC - Silver Spring, MD July 2012 to May 2014 2816 Schubert Drive  Silver Spring, MD 20904 United States    07/2012 - 05/2014  Salary: 26,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 40  Full Time Student/Volunteer  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Attended classes and completed coursework on a weekly and daily basis maintained a 3.297/4.0 GPA. Coursework included analyzing case studies and performed gap analysis to determine functional requirements for enterprises. Worked within teams to identify and determine best solutions for new and existing  infrastructure and web applications. Utilized the Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and relevant documentation to handle the integration of systems from cradle to the grave. Conducted testing to evaluate success. Created schedules to conduct training sessions. Graduated with a Bachelor's of Science in  Information Systems Management.  Supervisor: Justin Runyan (3015255664)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    Columbia Technological Services  Marbury Rd  Oakton, MD 22124 United States    03/2011 - 09/2012  Salary: 90,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 60  https://www.usajobs.gov/Applicant/ProfileDashboard/Resumes 1/3  7/31/2019 Print Resume  President/Owner/Site Manager  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Responsible for the growth, direction, and stability of the organization. Overall responsible for daily operations. Responsible for business plan. Set organizational  budget and evaluated financial reports. Hired and managed subcontractors and staff. Responsible for contract procurement (contract proposals). Managed  deliverables for Service Level Agreements (SLA's). Provided detailed reports to customers. Incorporated Columbia Technological Services (CTS) LLC. a Service  Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) in March 2011. Received contract award from Ellsworth Air Force Base to install a wireless generator  monitoring system on 33 remote sites. As a site manager oversaw the installation of 33 Motorola Canopy, Line of Site, Subscriber Modules and established  communication from the remote sites to the Base Station server.  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    Reliatrust Technologies Inc.  22648 Glenn Dr.  Sterling, VA 20164 United States    03/2007 - 08/2011  Salary: 50,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 40  Team Lead/ Systems Administrator/Deputy Project Manager  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Supervised a team of ten personnel which monitor network integrity for the Department of the Army covering six sites across the United States during 24x7  operations. Responsible for writing, implementing, and maintaining numerous Standard Operating Procedures (SOP's). Responsible for maintaining the network  diagram and Master Escalation List (MEL). Responsible for personnel training within the Corporate Information Operation Center (CIOC). Responsible for the software management of over four thousand Dell desktops and one thousand Dell laptops within the enterprise. Performed testing and support for all software  updates and pushes. Maintained a 99.5% network availability rate over a period of 4 years. Maintained a 99% enterprise system management rate over a period  of 4 years. Oversaw the integration and implementation of a printer management program.  Supervisor: Kenny Young (3013941847)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    United States Army  Fort Gordon  Augusta, GA 30905 United States    08/2004 - 11/2006  Hours per week: 40  IT Site Manager/ Instructor  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Provided communications support for Leaders College of Information Technology. Supervised and prepared work schedules for personnel performing the installation and operation of multichannel and tropospheric scatter radio systems. Provided technical assistance to subordinate team members during  installation, operation and troubleshooting. Wrote SOP's pertaining to multichannel equipment operations. Developed training programs for subordinate  personnel to ensure job competency. Supervised and performed management and administrative responsibilities related to personnel, systems operation and logistics. Supervised a team of seventeen personnel, seventeen vehicles, and fourteen communications systems worth over 8.6 million dollars. Trained over  1200 Signal Officer Basic Course (SOBC) Lieutenants. Received Army Commendation Medal (ARCOM) for maintaining the most reliable communications  network throughout eighteen field- training exercises.    United States Army  Underwood Kaserne  Hanau, Hessen Germany    09/2001 - 08/2004  Hours per week: 40  Communications Supervisor  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Supervised and prepared work schedules for personnel performing the installation and operation of multichannel and tropospheric scatter radio systems.  Provided technical assistance to subordinate team members during installation, operation and troubleshooting. Wrote SOP's pertaining to multichannel  equipment operations. Developed training programs for subordinate personnel to ensure job competency. Supervised and performed management and administrative responsibilities related to personnel, systems operation and logistics. Provided communications for a Company through eight table VII  certifications, one table XII certification, and a NATO operational assessment. Supervised five technicians and two communications assemblages providing one  hundred and twenty days of constant communications between the PATRIOT and Israeli Arrow weapon systems during Operation Juniper Cobra and Operation  Iraqi Freedom. Wrote the first communications training and evaluation program used by the Battalion. Received Army Commendation Medal (ARCOM) for teams' flawless performance during operations and evaluations. Served as Unit COMSEC Custodian.  Supervisor: Derek Fussell (915-218-7216)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    United States Army  Fort Stewart  Fort Stewart, GA 31315 United States    10/1997 - 09/2001  Hours per week: 40  Communications Supervisor  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Supervised eight personnel in Fire Direction operations including preparation for operations, network installation, and maintenance. Supervised data processing, support planning, and execution of fire mission information. Supervised movement control, mission support, and scheduling for a company level element.  Received ARCOM for team's performance during Intrinsic Action 98-03 and Operation Desert Fox. Recognized for having the best Platoon Operations Center  two consecutive years (ARCOM).    https://www.usajobs.gov/Applicant/ProfileDashboard/Resumes 2/3  7/31/2019 Print Resume President/Owner/Site Manager Columbia Technological Services - Oakton, VA March 2011 to September 2012 03/2011 - 09/2012  Salary: 90,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 60  https://www.usajobs.gov/Applicant/ProfileDashboard/Resumes 1/3  7/31/2019 Print Resume  President/Owner/Site Manager  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Responsible for the growth, direction, and stability of the organization. Overall responsible for daily operations. Responsible for business plan. Set organizational  budget and evaluated financial reports. Hired and managed subcontractors and staff. Responsible for contract procurement (contract proposals). Managed  deliverables for Service Level Agreements (SLA's). Provided detailed reports to customers. Incorporated Columbia Technological Services (CTS) LLC. a Service  Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) in March 2011. Received contract award from Ellsworth Air Force Base to install a wireless generator  monitoring system on 33 remote sites. As a site manager oversaw the installation of 33 Motorola Canopy, Line of Site, Subscriber Modules and established  communication from the remote sites to the Base Station server.  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Team Lead/ Systems Administrator/Deputy Project Manager Reliatrust Technologies Inc - Sterling, VA March 2007 to August 2011 22648 Glenn Dr.  Sterling, VA 20164 United States    03/2007 - 08/2011  Salary: 50,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 40  Team Lead/ Systems Administrator/Deputy Project Manager  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Supervised a team of ten personnel which monitor network integrity for the Department of the Army covering six sites across the United States during 24x7  operations. Responsible for writing, implementing, and maintaining numerous Standard Operating Procedures (SOP's). Responsible for maintaining the network  diagram and Master Escalation List (MEL). Responsible for personnel training within the Corporate Information Operation Center (CIOC). Responsible for the software management of over four thousand Dell desktops and one thousand Dell laptops within the enterprise. Performed testing and support for all software  updates and pushes. Maintained a 99.5% network availability rate over a period of 4 years. Maintained a 99% enterprise system management rate over a period  of 4 years. Oversaw the integration and implementation of a printer management program.  Supervisor: Kenny Young (3013941847)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    United States Army  Fort Gordon  Augusta, GA 30905 United States    08/2004 - 11/2006  Hours per week: 40  IT Site Manager/ Instructor  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Provided communications support for Leaders College of Information Technology. Supervised and prepared work schedules for personnel performing the installation and operation of multichannel and tropospheric scatter radio systems. Provided technical assistance to subordinate team members during  installation, operation and troubleshooting. Wrote SOP's pertaining to multichannel equipment operations. Developed training programs for subordinate  personnel to ensure job competency. Supervised and performed management and administrative responsibilities related to personnel, systems operation and logistics. Supervised a team of seventeen personnel, seventeen vehicles, and fourteen communications systems worth over 8.6 million dollars. Trained over  1200 Signal Officer Basic Course (SOBC) Lieutenants. Received Army Commendation Medal (ARCOM) for maintaining the most reliable communications  network throughout eighteen field- training exercises.    United States Army  Underwood Kaserne  Hanau, Hessen Germany    09/2001 - 08/2004  Hours per week: 40  Communications Supervisor  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Supervised and prepared work schedules for personnel performing the installation and operation of multichannel and tropospheric scatter radio systems.  Provided technical assistance to subordinate team members during installation, operation and troubleshooting. Wrote SOP's pertaining to multichannel  equipment operations. Developed training programs for subordinate personnel to ensure job competency. Supervised and performed management and administrative responsibilities related to personnel, systems operation and logistics. Provided communications for a Company through eight table VII  certifications, one table XII certification, and a NATO operational assessment. Supervised five technicians and two communications assemblages providing one  hundred and twenty days of constant communications between the PATRIOT and Israeli Arrow weapon systems during Operation Juniper Cobra and Operation  Iraqi Freedom. Wrote the first communications training and evaluation program used by the Battalion. Received Army Commendation Medal (ARCOM) for teams' flawless performance during operations and evaluations. Served as Unit COMSEC Custodian.  Supervisor: Derek Fussell (915-218-7216)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    United States Army  Fort Stewart  Fort Stewart, GA 31315 United States    10/1997 - 09/2001  Hours per week: 40  Communications Supervisor  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Supervised eight personnel in Fire Direction operations including preparation for operations, network installation, and maintenance. Supervised data processing, support planning, and execution of fire mission information. Supervised movement control, mission support, and scheduling for a company level element.  Received ARCOM for team's performance during Intrinsic Action 98-03 and Operation Desert Fox. Recognized for having the best Platoon Operations Center  two consecutive years (ARCOM).    https://www.usajobs.gov/Applicant/ProfileDashboard/Resumes 2/3  7/31/2019 Print Resume Supervisor United States Army - Augusta, GA August 2004 to November 2006 Fort Gordon  Augusta, GA 30905 United States    08/2004 - 11/2006  Hours per week: 40  IT Site Manager/ Instructor  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Provided communications support for Leaders College of Information Technology. Supervised and prepared work schedules for personnel performing the installation and operation of multichannel and tropospheric scatter radio systems. Provided technical assistance to subordinate team members during  installation, operation and troubleshooting. Wrote SOP's pertaining to multichannel equipment operations. Developed training programs for subordinate  personnel to ensure job competency. Supervised and performed management and administrative responsibilities related to personnel, systems operation and logistics. Supervised a team of seventeen personnel, seventeen vehicles, and fourteen communications systems worth over 8.6 million dollars. Trained over  1200 Signal Officer Basic Course (SOBC) Lieutenants. Received Army Commendation Medal (ARCOM) for maintaining the most reliable communications  network throughout eighteen field- training exercises.    United States Army  Underwood Kaserne  Hanau, Hessen Germany    09/2001 - 08/2004  Hours per week: 40  Communications Supervisor  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Supervised and prepared work schedules for personnel performing the installation and operation of multichannel and tropospheric scatter radio systems.  Provided technical assistance to subordinate team members during installation, operation and troubleshooting. Wrote SOP's pertaining to multichannel  equipment operations. Developed training programs for subordinate personnel to ensure job competency. Supervised and performed management and administrative responsibilities related to personnel, systems operation and logistics. Provided communications for a Company through eight table VII  certifications, one table XII certification, and a NATO operational assessment. Supervised five technicians and two communications assemblages providing one  hundred and twenty days of constant communications between the PATRIOT and Israeli Arrow weapon systems during Operation Juniper Cobra and Operation  Iraqi Freedom. Wrote the first communications training and evaluation program used by the Battalion. Received Army Commendation Medal (ARCOM) for teams' flawless performance during operations and evaluations. Served as Unit COMSEC Custodian.  Supervisor: Derek Fussell (915-218-7216)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    United States Army  Fort Stewart  Fort Stewart, GA 31315 United States    10/1997 - 09/2001  Hours per week: 40  Communications Supervisor  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Supervised eight personnel in Fire Direction operations including preparation for operations, network installation, and maintenance. Supervised data processing, support planning, and execution of fire mission information. Supervised movement control, mission support, and scheduling for a company level element.  Received ARCOM for team's performance during Intrinsic Action 98-03 and Operation Desert Fox. Recognized for having the best Platoon Operations Center  two consecutive years (ARCOM).    https://www.usajobs.gov/Applicant/ProfileDashboard/Resumes 2/3  7/31/2019 Print Resume Communications Supervisor United States Army - Fort Stewart, GA October 1997 to September 2001 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Supervised eight personnel in Fire Direction operations including preparation for operations, network installation, and maintenance. Supervised data processing, support planning, and execution of fire mission information. Supervised movement control, mission support, and scheduling for a company level element.  Received ARCOM for team's performance during Intrinsic Action 98-03 and Operation Desert Fox. Recognized for having the best Platoon Operations Center  two consecutive years (ARCOM).    https://www.usajobs.gov/Applicant/ProfileDashboard/Resumes 2/3  7/31/2019 Print Resume Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Systems Management University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD May 2014 Skills VMWARE, SOLARWINDS, UNICENTER, Server 2012 R2 (3 years), System Administrator (8 years), System Admin (8 years), Active Directory (4 years) Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SSG Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ August 2010 to Present CompTIA Security+ February 2017 to Present Microsoft Word October 2014 to Present Microsoft Office Specialist October 2014 to Present Microsoft Excel October 2014 to Present Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9p6f8nnl2t9jlf-3 Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/j3-ernbun3rpg92z Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bziylinvjzejyidy Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.