Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oregon, WI Work Experience Systems Administrator Wisconsin Physicians Insurance October 2011 to April 2019 Hardware and Server OS  Oversaw installation and maintenance of hardware from Cisco, HP, and Dell, ensuring proper functionality. Executed practices to manage the lifecycle of all hardware and performed administrative tasks in VMWare. Sustained knowledge of new technologies, researching hardware such as Cisco, Hyperflex, Dell, VxRail, VxFlex, and Nutanix. Delivered 24-hour support as part of the on-call rotation. Installed and supported Windows server. Maintained current levels and configurations of firmware on all hardware.  * Reduced physical server count from 600 to 200 by implementing Cisco UCS, removing 600+ older HP and IBM servers; utilized UCS Central to manage 7 UCS domains in two data centers from a central point.  * Installed and maintained 100 Dell PowerEdge servers, utilizing Dell Open Manage Essentials to centralize management; product enabled uncomplicated passing of government security audits.  * Strategized cost-efficient methods to migrate equipment, valued at over several million dollars, to co-locate to a new data center; used the modularity of Cisco UCS, spending only $40K to complete the project.  * Advanced company to an enhanced technological environment by researching new technologies and meeting with vendors to experience hands-on demos; recommended new technologies to management. IT Consultant WPS contracted throught Flesxion October 2011 to April 2014 Provided infrastructure support to aid in managing the lifecycle of hardware. Installed and patched windows server.  * Transformed data center from the disordered environment to an organized and clean area by cleaning up racks and cabling.  * Decreased leased equipment expenses from $75K/month to under $10K/month as a result of identifying unused, older equipment, and returning it to the leasing company. IT Desktop Consultant State of Wisconsin December 2010 to July 2011 Department of Corrections - Contracted through Comprehensive Computer Consulting  Delivered 2nd and 3rd level support to 10K+ users, evaluating and recommending hardware and software solutions for desktop users.  * Packaged software for deployment, using Admin Studio; deployed software using LANDesk Management Suite. IT Network Engineer Department of Military Affairs March 2010 to December 2010 Supported end users by providing desktop and mobile device support. Demonstrated knowledge of infrastructure subject matters for projects.  * Installed VMWare, VSphere, and migrated standalone servers to virtual servers; cleaned up active directory environment.  * Upgraded and migrated environment from Windows Server 2003 to Windows Server 2008. IT Management Consultant Cuna Mutual Group May 2002 to July 2009 • Installed, configured, and maintained Blackberry and Windows Mobile infrastructures for over 1000 users within a Windows 2003 server and Microsoft Exchange environment.  • Managed development and test servers in VMware environment.  • Provided 2nd level support for multiple applications, including Microsoft Office, Outlook, Internet Explorer, ActiveSync, and Blackberry Desktop Manager.  • Negotiated vendor contracts.  • Monitored vendor contracts for compliance. Education Associates of Applied Science in Industrial Electronics Wisconsin Indianhead Technical College Links http://linkedin.com/in/tim-bachman