Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Chula Vista, CA As a Systems Administrator my duties include design, implementation maintenance and management of servers for client applications, including configuration, maintenance, and problem resolution for the operating system and applications. Ensures that systems are functional and optimized in order to support client applications. Offers novel approaches to solve technical problems. Solves issues from the enterprise level, understanding how multiple products and technologies interface. Provides technical and analytical support to team within. Responsible for the implementation, maintenance and management of servers and network devices. This includes configuration, maintenance and problem resolution of the operating system and applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator TechFlow, Inc - San Diego, CA January 2006 to June 2019 • VMWare Administrator, processed environment requests, configured virtual machines, executed and created virtual  servers. Administered tasks such as cloning, storage space, memory usage, datastore management. Also involved with infrastructure permissions and monitoring.  • Splunk Administrator, maintained the system, system "up time" accountability, data integrity, file customization, application configuration, application tested, and application upgrades. Managed user accounts, user roles, index  configuration, license control, alert creation, log monitoring, disk space assessment and mount.  • Collaborated with Application Development and Support teams to ensure quality of service standards.  • Ensured client service level agreements were met while maintaining a national procurement system for the General  Services Administration (GSA).  • Assured customer satisfaction by documenting user-friendly technical procedures for installs, patches, upgrades and proposals for LAN related hardware and software.  • Provided all aspects of security including Linux and Microsoft patches, Active Directory Group Policies, anti-virus  updates and shared folders permissions as well as maintaining user accounts and Domino server distribution lists.  • Site co-location coordination, setup, troubleshooting, and planning.  • IBM/Lotus Domino/WebSphere/Sametime Administrator.  • JBoss application server configuration and administrator.  • Apache server configuration and administrator. 5+ years of administering Tomcat Apache Loadbalancer server. Tasks  included log and disk partition management, troubleshooting production and test environment issues with user access to the client API, server uptime, immediate primary and secondary "hot" failovers to keep the client web application  live and active with minimal downtime.  • Linux and Windows server configuration and administration. 8+ years administering RHEL/Centos 6/7 and Windows  platforms for a Government contract. Delivering on SLAs agreed upon with client. Tasks included system uptime at  99.9%, on-call rotation, 24x7x365. Doing research and planning resolutions for discovered exploits and vulnerabilities. Software configuration and Operating System upgrades, monitoring multiple environments  (Production, Test, Development), administering Active Directory users and groups roles and permissions, managing  virtual servers and environments via VMware VSphere. Part of my duties consisted of administering a CODB database  and various other application servers. Many of the application configuration and upgrades included SQL, Oracle and Postgres databases.  • Maintained and managed overall production, test and development server environments ( system and network) in support of internal and/or external customers.  • Ensured network security, including remote access, VPN, firewall, anti-virus tools, and other security mechanisms.  • Checked servers for clustering problems, replication problems, mail routing problems and application performance  issues, including accessing servers and reviewing logs as necessary to assess current situation and review performance.  • Provided guidance and assistance to other systems administrators; offered recommendations for problem solving  approaches.  • Identified and implemented solutions to resolve security findings which included testing, updating and troubleshooting  (scans and remediation).  • Documented overall server environment and operational procedures.  • Responded to escalations from Software Support Analysts in the diagnosis of feedbacks.  • Used various system and network administration tools to assist with ongoing statistical data collection and alarm  notifications related to system or network problems. Responsible for continual updating of established tools to accommodate new management best practices.  • Maintained disaster recovery plan including daily backup procedures.  • Initiated purchases of hardware and software as necessary. Conducted competitive bidding when appropriate.  • Performed routine maintenance during off-hours in order to minimize the impact of network downtime. May be  contacted after hours to handle emergency internal IT issues.  • Responded to internal Helpdesk support calls, tracked issues, solved problems and followed up accordingly. Software Support Analyst TechFlow, Inc - San Diego, CA July 2003 to January 2006 • Managed efforts to ensure data integrity and validity.  • Analyzed suspected software issues and if found developed code solutions.  • Created tablespaces, schemas, and tables using SQL DDL.  • Wrote SQL DML scripts to update, delete, or insert data to resolve data anomalies.  • Wrote LotusScript to correct problems with orders for users of the ITSS application.  • Liaison between users, developers and system administrators to report complex system problems. Education Bachelors of Science degree in Computer Science San Diego State University - San Diego, CA Skills SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, JBOSS, SPLUNK, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, JUNIPER, LDAP, TCP, TCP/IP, VMWARE, VPN, DNS, FIREWALLS, NAGIOS, System Administrator, Linux, System Admin, Linux Administrator, Red Hat, Linux, Red Hat, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, Redhat, System Admin Additional Information Technical Proficiencies:  • Languages: SQL, C, JAVA, HTML, XML, Visual Basic, Lotus Script, Pascal, Fortran, VI, Nano, Bash script  • Databases: Oracle 9i - 11g, MySql, MS SQL Server, MS Access, and Lotus Notes  • MS Office: Access, Word, Excel, Outlook, Power Point, and Project  • Development Tools: Oracle SQL Developer, Lotus Designer, Eclipse, and Visio  • Networking Protocols: VPN, Tracert, Ping, NsLookup, IPconfig, TCP/IP, DNS, HTTP, LDAP, Active Directory  • Switches, Routers, Firewalls: F5 Loadbalancer: Cisco, Juniper, Linksys, Dell  • System availability and performance monitoring tools: New Relic, Cacti, Alertsite, Splunk, LoadRunner, WSUS,  Nessus, Netsparker and Nagios  • Application Servers: Apache, Tomcat, JBoss, Oracle Application Server and Lotus Domino  • Process Tools: Jira, Confluence, Crucible, Fisheye, ServiceNow,  • Virtualization and Storage: VMware, VSphere. ESXi, AWS and NetApp  • Integration and Release Tools: Jenkins, Puppet, Crucible, Fisheye, SonarQube, GIT, Subversion  • Operating Systems: Windows (all versions), RHEL 4-7, Centos 4-7