Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Darwin, MN Professional systems administrator with fifteen years of experience in information technology ranging from basic PC repair and upgrades to securing and virtualization of networks. Creative fun character with strong work ethic, loyalty and integrity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator II CSI Onsite - Bloomington, MN October 2017 to Present All around Information Technology support for small, medium and large businesses.  -Presales: Worked with sales representatives creating quotes, surveyed customer environments, researched products and made recommendations for customers.  -Worked with customers on upgrades, fixes, and training; both on site and remotely for desktops, servers, firewalls, disaster recovery, and overall networking.  -Virtualization: Physical to Virtual conversions, and new installs. Management of host and clients utilizing VMware VCenter and HyperV.  -Documented customer environments, created training and procedure documents.  -Level II/III help desk duties  -Exchange and Server operating systems & software upgrades  -Hardware diagnosis, replacement and upgrades.  -Several roles in network evaluation and redesigns, in some cases rebuilding entire networks. Consultant Joseph Huhn - Darwin, MN September 2015 to September 2017 Surveying customer environments, researching, and making recommendations for customers.  -Working with customers on upgrades fixes both on site and remotely for desktops, servers, firewalls, disaster recovery, and general networking.  -Virtualization: Management of host and clients utilizing VMware VCenter and HyperV.  -Exchange and Server O/S & software upgrades  -Hardware diagnosis, replacement and upgrades. Systems Administrator BusinessWare Solutions February 2008 to August 2015 All around Information Technology support for small, medium and large businesses.  -Presales: Worked with sales representatives creating quotes, surveyed customer environments, researched products and made recommendations for customers.  -Worked with customers on upgrades, fixes, and training; both on site and remotely for desktops, servers, firewalls, disaster recovery, and overall networking.  -Virtualization: Physical to Virtual conversions, and new installs. Management of host and clients utilizing VMware VCenter and HyperV.  -Documented customer environments, created training and procedure documents.  -Level II/III help desk duties  -Exchange and Server operating systems & software upgrades  -Hardware diagnosis, replacement and upgrades.  *Several roles in network evaluation and redesigns, in some cases rebuilding entire networks.  *Created onboarding documents and procedures for managed service department.  *Implemented Veeam image backup solution for managed customer offsite disaster recovery. Systems Administrator Advance Surveying & Engineering March 2005 to 2008 All around Information Technology support.  -Installed and maintained desktops, servers, firewalls and backups.  -Managed LAN and VPN in multiple states.  -Created and managed all security policies for local, mobile and guest users, both wired and wireless.  -Designed and maintained disaster recovery plan.  -Maintained domain controller, file, e-mail, FTP, Blackberry and web servers.  -Set up and managed users in active directory.  *Moved company from local file sharing, hosted email and web services to access controlled domain and file server, in-house exchange and web server.  *Created VPN tunnels, replacing the open remote desktop access. Intern BusinessWare Solutions - Hutchinson, MN November 2003 to May 2005 -Phone Support and Presales: First point of contact for users experiencing numerous issues with PC's and Mac's.  -Recommend support for users and sales options.  -Maintained inventory.  -Beta tested hardware and software products. Education Associate of Applied Science in Applied Science Saint Cloud Technical College 2002 to 2004 diploma in General studies Litchfield High School 1999 Skills SECURITY (2 years), VMWARE (9 years), FIREWALLS (10+ years), EXCHANGE (10+ years), Azure (3 years), Office 365 (6 years), Active Directory (10+ years), System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information Skills    • AutoCAD 2006 thru 2018, Raster Design 2006 thru 2018.  • Barracuda Backup Appliances.  • Barracuda Spam Filters (physical and virtual appliances).  • BlackBerry Enterprise Server.  • HP Enterprise Hardware and Software  • Macintosh Hardware and Software.  • Macintosh OS X 10.4 thru10.13, Server OS X 10.6 thru 10.13.  • Macintosh xServe and xRaid.  • Microsoft HyperV.  • Microsoft Office 2003, thru 365.  • Microsoft Windows Desktop OSs XP, thru 10.  • Microsoft Windows Server OSs 2003, 2008, 2012, Exchange Server.  • Symantec Backup Exec.  • Symantec Endpoint Security, Mail Security and Client Security.  • Veeam Backup and Recovery.  • VMware, VSphere, VCenter, Fusion.  • WatchGuard Firewalls and WatchGuard Systems Manager.