Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Property Damage Appraisers Fort Worth, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Property Damage Appraisers - Benbrook, TX July 2017 to Present • Tier 2 desktop/server support at company's home office.  • Improved Active directory management. Modernized GPOs, OUs and User accounts.  • Provided support for remote offices using Logmein Rescue.  • Installed and configured Solarwinds Orion Suite.  • Responsible for maintaining server backups using Veeam. Set restore points daily allowing users to pull accidentally deleted items.  • Consolidated old physical servers into virtual machines, or replacing services with modern ones.  • Administered and maintained a mixed environment (Windows /Linux) ensuring uptime and reliability of applications and systems.  • Upgraded, patched and performed routine maintenance activities for each server.  • Administration of JitBit ticketing system. Created various categories and custom fields for technicians of each department.  • Worked with executives and management on technical projects, creating action plans with the use of Smartsheets  • SIEM management using SolarWinds Security Event Manager, creating rules and pulling/reviewing logs when needed.  • Configuring and maintaining telephone systems using NEC and InDepth Aspire and creating ACD groups for our call center.  • Installed and configured Cisco FTD/FMC firewall, and using Firepower Management Center to administer.  • Worked Security team to perform quarterly penetration tests, and created standalone environments to test vulnerabilities.  • Ran vulnerability scans against network using Nexpose and OpenVAS. Upgrading and configuring applications/ systems accordingly.  • Coordinated with the Network Administrators to solve networking bottlenecks between applications and server hardware.  • Maintained, and provisioned various virtual machines using Hyper-V and VMware.  • Created and maintained a Knowledge Base for users to access information on basic troubleshooting/ setup of systems. I.T. Support Technician Amazon Fulfillment - Fort Worth, TX January 2015 to July 2017 • Managed support for 1000 customers, ensured optimum performance of computer systems and software applications daily.  • Troubleshooting various TCP/IP issues.  • Configuring and installing network switches/routers.  • Resolved over 100 trouble tickets with 100% success rate in 7 days, issues needing higher authority or higher technical assistance were sent up in a timely manner using Remedy ticketing system.  • Provide day-to-day support and maintenance to VIP customer base through individual desk-side support.  • Perform desktop and laptop system deployments, including hardware and software configurations.  • Deploy and support mobile devices such as iPhones and iPads.  • Complete weekly security audits for MDF/IDFs.  • Maintained and created technical documentation for various procedures and for general troubleshooting. Education High school or equivalent Skills Linux, Written and verbal, Fast learner, Problem solver, Siem, Network Security, Cyber Security, Information Security, Windows OS (5 years), Windows Server (3 years), It Security, Cybersecurity Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pdx-dxdvduf1zaju Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.