Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Aurora, IL Worked for the U. S. Dept. of Energy at Fermilab, a high energy particle accelerator research laboratory located in Batavia, IL. Fermilab is an ITIL ISO20000 certified laboratory.  Systems Administrator with 7 years of experience. Assisted with the upgrade of ~300 servers to Windows Server 2012. Assisted with the conversion of ~200 physical servers to the VMware complex to reduce the space and the resources used by the physical servers.  Computer Support Specialist with 8 years of experience. Helped to provide Windows desktop support for 1000+ employees and visiting scientists. Work Experience Systems Administrator Fermilab - Batavia, IL 2009 to 2016 • Administered 300+ physical and virtual Windows servers.  • Provided tier 2 level support to the help desk for user account access to application servers, files, and folders.  • Service Now (SNOW) was the ticketing system used to track incidents, update the knowledge base, manage assets, and control change management.  • Provided support to the application owners for the setup, installation and the upgrading of their application server.  • EventSentry software was used to manage server event logs, monitor server health, and monitor network performance.  • Microsoft Excel was used to import data, compile data, and sort data to provide management with weekly audit and inventory reports. Computer Support Specialist Fermilab - Batavia, IL 2001 to 2009 Worked with the help desk to provide support for the Microsoft Windows setup, maintenance, upgrade, and diagnostics of desktops for 1000+ end users.  • Administered user accounts in Active Directory.  • Provided documentation for technical help and software instruction to end users.  • Entered user requests for assistance into the Service Now ticketing system to ensure that SLA's were maintained and that the knowledge base was kept up to date.  • Utilized System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) to audit and inventory software.  • Created weekly audit and inventory reports for management using Microsoft Word and Excel. Education B.A. in Physics in Physics Carthage College - Kenosha, WI Skills Active Directory. (8 years), audit (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), inventory (10+ years), security (7 years), System Administrator (7 years), Vmware (5 years), Active Directory, System Admin Additional Information SKILLS  • Document server and desktop issues and their resolutions into the Service Now ticketing system to ensure SLA's are maintained and knowledge bases were updated.  • Apply server and desktop operating system patches via the Windows System Update Server (WSUS).  • Maintain server and desktop antivirus via Symantec End Point.  • Administer computer, user, and security group accounts in Active Directory to set file and folder permissions on application servers.  • Servers were monitored and audited with EventSentry and SolarWinds software.  • Audit and inventory information about various objects in the Active Directory was obtained using the DSQUERY command-line utility.  • Data from various applications was imported into Excel spreadsheets and analyzed to provide reports to management.