Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Erie Times-News Girard, PA To obtain a position that will enable me to use my extensive computer background, strong organizational skills and ability to work well  with people while keeping me technically challenged and continually learning about new technology in my field. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Erie Times-News - Erie, PA January 2014 to Present Professional Accomplishments:  Was the IT team leader in the replacement of the legacy advertising system that was in place for 14 years previously. Roll-out of advertising system occurred concurrently with a reduction in the physical size of the Erie Times-News. I was simultaneously the head of the data conversion, server setup, workstation replacement and software installation of the advertising system implementation while I also headed and coordinated physical dimension changes, reformatting of classified pages and other content that was involved in the physical redesign of the Erie Times-News. Both projects finished on time successfully as scheduled.    In-house IT lead and overall project manager for migration of self-hosted, on-premise advertising system to remotely hosted system which was then accessed via Microsoft terminal services for approx 40 users. Migration occurred on-time with no business disruption.     Co-lead in project for replacement of legacy telephone system with modern, hybrid digital and VOIP system for approximately 100 end users.    IT lead for transition of moving the printing of our core product from in-house to a third party vendor. Set up hardware/software technology and developed and implemented a workflow to make the printing transition nearly seamless. As well, was lead in data gathering and analysis that was used while searching for and selecting a vendor to replace the in-house printing.    Co-lead in mobile device management. Managed approx 100 mobile devices including iPhones, Android phones, Blackberries and tablets.    Team leader and project manager for implementation of system to transition from traditional film and plate processing system to computer to plate technology.    Customer liaison for assistance in computer and printing technology    Currently IT lead for a variety of mission critical production systems including but not limited to VMWare virtualization platform, SAN, networking and several content management systems Application Specialist Erie Times-News - Erie, PA August 2008 to December 2013 Pagination Supervisor Erie Times-News - Erie, PA July 2004 to August 2008 AD Builder / Compositor Erie Times-News - Erie, PA August 1996 to July 2004 Computer Services Supervisor Kinko's Copies - Erie, PA March 1994 to August 1996 Education High school or equivalent Skills System Administrator, Linux, System Admin, Vmware, Active Directory, Linux Administrator Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fjvtgl6hkthezrww Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1fdptnfys1j-1wou Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Professional Accomplishments:  Was the IT team leader in the replacement of the legacy advertising system that was in place for 14 years previously. Roll-out of advertising system occurred concurrently with a reduction in the physical size of the Erie Times-News. I was simultaneously the head of the data conversion, server setup, workstation replacement and software installation of the advertising system implementation while I also headed and coordinated physical dimension changes, reformatting of classified pages and other content that was involved in the physical redesign of the Erie Times-News. Both projects finished on time successfully as scheduled.    In-house IT lead and overall project manager for migration of self-hosted, on-premise advertising system to remotely hosted system which was then accessed via Microsoft terminal services for approx 40 users. Migration occured on-time with no business disruption.     Co-lead in project for replacement of legacy telephone system with modern, hybrid digital and VOIP system for approximately 100 end users.    IT lead for transition of moving the printing of our core product from in-house to a third party vendor. Set up hardware/software technology and developed and implemented a workflow to make the printing transition nearly seamless. As well, was lead in data gathering and analysis that was used while searching for and selecting a vendor to replace the in-house printing.    Co-lead in mobile device management. Managed approx 100 mobile devices including iPhones, Android phones, Blackberries and tablets.    Team leader and project manager for implementation of system to transition from traditional film and plate processing system to computer to plate technology.    Customer liaison for assistance in computer and printing technology    Currently IT lead for a variety of mission critical production systems including but not limited to VMWare virtualization platform, SAN, networking and several content management systems    Professional references available upon request.