Systems Administrator (Contractor) <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Contractor) Systems Administrator Katy, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator (Contractor) Dresser-Rand - Houston, TX July 2016 to May 2018 Contractor) - Houston, TX  Dresser-Rand, a leading oil and gas field services and engineering provider.  Systems Administrator. July 2016 to May 2018.  Responsibilities include Windows 2003, 2008, 2012 and VMWare ESX administration, eVault backups and DR, NetApp Storage, Active Directory, Enterprise IP Services (DNS, DHCP), server builds, troubleshooting, documentation, maintaining corporate applications, Trend Virus updates, Ricoh print services, and 24 hour on-call server monitoring through SolarWinds and Cisco UCS Manager. Duties also included the migration of all IT assets from Dresser-Rand into the Siemens network (main role). Systems Administrator (Contractor) Transcore EZPass - Houston, TX February 2016 to May 2016 Responsibilities include Windows 2008, 2012 and VMWare ESX administration, Hyper-V and VMWare administration, VSphere 6, Veeam virtual backups and DR, Nimble Storage, Active Directory, Enterprise IP Services (DNS, DHCP), Cisco switch and router configurations, Backups and Restores with Symantec Backup Exec 2014, server builds, troubleshooting, documentation, maintaining corporate applications, Symantic Virus updates, and 24 hour on-call server monitoring through SolarWinds. Migration of users using PowerShell scripts, manual moves, data migration, server and network device IP changes, etc. Systems Engineer NRG Energy, Inc - Houston, TX February 2007 to June 2014 Responsibilities include Windows 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012 and VMWare ESX administration, Active Directory, Enterprise IP Services (DNS, DHCP, and WINS), NERC-CIP compliance in Louisiana, Backups and Restores with Symantec Backup Exec 10D, 12.5 and NetBackup 6.5, server builds, troubleshooting, documentation, disaster recovery exercises, maintaining corporate applications, Trend Micro Virus updates, and 24 hour on-call server monitoring through NetIQ, Dell OpenManage, and HP Systems Insight Manager.    Environment Directly Supported:  ? 1600+ W2K / W2K3 / W2K8 / W2K12 Servers  ? NetApp SAN Environment  ? 10000+ Corporate Desktops    Selected Accomplishments:    ? Played a major technical role in NRG’s data center migration from the location in downtown Houston to a new data center located in CyrusOne. Duties included moving over 500 physical servers, installing Ethernet, fiber, and power cabling, power capacity planning and implementation. Also played a key role in designing the data center layout.  ? Successfully migrated all backups from BackupExec 10D to BackupExec 12.5. Responsibilities also included backing up all Texas corporate Windows servers and all servers located in plants via regional Media Servers. Also assisted the migration to NetBackup during the Reliant migration.  ? Performed the role of NERC backup gatekeeper for Louisiana NERC responsibilities. Participated in NERC audits for the entire LA fleet and corporate office. Helped build out the LA NERC disaster recovery facility at the Bayou Cove plant.   ? Server Engineer responsible for all infrastructure plant servers in Texas, Louisiana, California, and Nevada. Responsibilities include patching, monitoring, scheduled maintenance, new server installs, TA support, and all plant domain controller monitoring. Extensive traveling was required.  ? Played a major role with the Reliant Energy and GenOn data center integrations and moves including physical server moves, physical to virtual moves, hardware upgrades, AD integration during the migration, etc.  ? Responsible for all HP and Dell hardware monitoring across the enterprise through HP Insight Manager and Dell OpenManage.  ? Provided hardware, Windows server, and Active Directory support for the Texas RANGER EMS team. Senior Systems Administrator SIMDESK TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED - Houston, TX April 2004 to September 2006 Responsibilities include Windows 2000, 2003, and Red Hat ES Linux administration, HP Non-Stop operations, Active Directory, Enterprise IP Services (DNS, DHCP, and WINS), SQL 7.0 / 2000 cluster administration, IIS administration, Backups and Restores using HP Data Protector and Veritas Backup Exec, server builds, troubleshooting, documentation, disaster recovery exercises, maintaining corporate applications, Symantec Virus updates, and 24 hour on-call server monitoring through IP Sentry.    Environment Directly Supported:  * 100+ W2K / W2K3 / LINUX Servers  * 2 SAN/NAS Environments (EMC Clarion)  * 2 HP NonStop Itanium Servers  * 1 HP NonStop S-Series Server  * 200+ Corporate Desktops    Selected Accomplishments:  * Technical lead on Simdesk's initial Brazilian product roll-out. Spent two weeks in Brazil building the Simdesk environment in a Brasil Telecom datacenter. Using a total of six IBM x335, two x345, and two x445 servers. Environment included two domain controllers, two SQL servers, one Novell file cluster, two web servers, and two Simdesk WWS application servers. Also provided technical support for the desktop client to the Goias school system.  * support for all Brazilian & South American rollouts including installs in Goias, Sao Paulo, Brasilia, and Paraguay.  * Completed two weeks of Hewlett Packard NonStop Accelerated Operator Training classes. Covering HP NonStop S-series server architecture and basic software functionality, including functions of Compaq TSM, Tandem Advanced Command Language (TACL) and Subsystem Control Facility (SCF) for system, disk drive, tape drive, and communications line monitoring. Also completed a one week NonStop Transaction Management Facility (TMF) Operations and Management class.  * Responsible for tape backups and restores using Veritas Backup Exec in our development environment and Veritas NetBackup Data Center 3.4.1 in our production environment using a StorageTek 180 robot library with T9840 data cartridges.  * Migrated our production backups from Netbackup Data Center 3.4.1 (W2K) to HP OpenView Storage Data Protector 5.5 (W2K3) using the HP MSL 6060 Tape Library with LTO Ultrium 960 drives. Increased our backup capacity by nearly 15 times and our data storage rate capability went from 410GB per hour to over 3TB per hour.  * Assisted in the complete revamping of our production data center. Including everything from installing Panduit patch panels, Cat6 and Fiber cabling, racking equipment and power distribution to server OS installs and data migration. Senior Microsoft Systems Administrator SERVICE CORPORATION INTERNATIONAL - Houston, TX November 1999 to March 2004 Technical lead and supervisor for the server group. Responsibilities included Active Directory, Enterprise IP Services (DNS, DHCP, and WINS), server builds, troubleshooting, documentation, disaster recovery exercises, maintaining corporate applications, Citrix Metaframe support, McAfee Virus DAT updates, 24 hour on-call server monitoring through Compaq Insight Manager, IBM Director, and Microsoft Operations Manager.    Environment Directly Supported:  * 1100 NT/2000/2003 Servers in 6 states, 4 countries  * 3 SAN/NAS Environments (HP & EMC)  * 4,200 Domestic Client Desktops    Selected Accomplishments:  * Migrated to Windows Active Directory Native Mode from Windows NT Authentication without interruption of services or application disruption. Designed, built, and administered SCI's entire active directory structure. Developed and applied AD Group Policies and Security    * Supported the development, testing and pilot environment of new customized .NET web application that began a year long tiered rollout to all field locations beginning in August 2003, part of a $12 million initiative to consolidate and streamline business processes.  * Consolidated 3 overseas NT domains into one central NT domain as Technical Lead. This included merging the French domain with the UK domain into the primary US domain.  * Wrote technical installation documentation for Disaster Recovery and performed annual offsite test as Windows Servers team lead, using this documentation.  * Assisted in the rollout of Microsoft Operations Manager (MOM) server management application to all NT/2000/2003 servers enterprise wide. Consolidated reporting, monitoring and alerting from NETIQ Application Manager and HP Insight Manager into a centralized dashboard. Created and distributed daily reports on server performance to various members of management. Education Associate Of Arts Houston Community College - Houston, TX January 1992 to May 1995 Skills Windows server OS (3.51 - 2012 R2), Active Directory, Security Patching, IP services such as DNS, WINS, DHCP, hardware installs and cabeling, VMWare administration, Hyper-V administration monitoring applications such as HP Insight Manager, Dell Openview, Big Brother, Solarwinds, etc. (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Windows 2003 MCSE + Security, Windows 2003 MCSA, Windows NT4 MCSE, CompTIA Security +, DNS and Bind.