Systems Administrator III <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> III Systems Administrator III - The Drees Company Union, KY To obtain a dynamic, positive, and fulfilling position in the Information Technology field along with an opportunity to develop my personal skill level and continued growth in this field. Work Experience Systems Administrator III The Drees Company - Fort Mitchell, KY November 2001 to Present Responsible for server installations, maintenance and support.  ? Responsible for administration and maintenance of a Microsoft Active Directory network.  ? Responsible for administration of an Office 365 environment which includes Exchange and Sharepoint Online.  ? Responsible for design and implementation of Microsoft Active Directory Federation Services.  ? Responsible for administration and maintenance of a VMware ESXi environment.  ? Responsible for the design and implementation of a virtual desktop environment utilizing VMware View and Unidesk.  ? Assist with the administration of Solaris and Linux environments.  ? Primary administrator for backup/recovery environment. Knowledgeable in Symantec Netbackup, Crashplan, Veeam, and Commvault.  ? Primary security administrator for a JD Edwards environment. Contract Network Administrator Comair - Erlanger, KY July 2002 to September 2002 Assisted on a Server consolidation project. Duties included installing and configuring Novell NetWare, user maintenance, and moving data between old and new servers. Technical Support Specialist Caracole - Cincinnati, OH February 2001 to March 2002 Provided telephone and on-site technical support, troubleshooting and problem solving for end-users of Caracole and clients of Sophia information services.  ? Extensive experience administering a Windows 2000 Active Directory network, printers, servers, and desktops.  ? Provided help desk, LAN administration and troubleshooting support to 63 nonprofits in the Greater Cincinnati area.  ? Administrator for an Exchange 2000 server, test Lotus Domino server.  ? Administrator for in-house IIS web servers.  ? Extensive hardware support, configuration and troubleshooting.  ? Provided network design, implementation and installation of LAN's using Windows 2000, Windows NT, Exchange Server, Windows 2000 Professional, NT Workstation, and Windows 9x. Advanced Systems Engineer Pomeroy Computer Resources - Hebron, KY January 1998 to January 2001 Provided network support and consulting services for clients in various environments. Duties included server builds and troubleshooting, administration, backup/recovery (Arcserve and Backup Exec), and desktop support. Familiar with Ethernet, TCP/IP, DHCP.  ? Worked on a server consolidation project for The Health Alliance of Cincinnati. Responsible for migrating users, data, and printers from Netware 3.x to Netware 4.x servers. Also assisted with GroupWise administration and other related tasks., and moving data.  ? Worked as the Network Administrator for The Catholic Center (Diocese of Covington) for approximately 18 months. Responsible for daily administration and maintenance of Netware 4.11 and Microsoft NT 4.0 servers. Also administered GroupWise system.  ? Worked on many server/desktop rollout projects for the Cincinnati Public School District. Duties included installing Netware 4.11, configuring desktops with district software, and rolling out equipment into the schools. Supervised as many as ten engineers to assist in the rollouts.  ? Worked on a Novell Zenworks rollout project for the Cincinnati Public School District. Responsible for installing and configuring Zenworks in selected schools throughout the district. Systems Analyst Thomas More College - Crestview Hills, KY August 1992 to January 1998 Responsible for administration and maintenance of a Novell NetWare network.  ? Diagnosed software problems and provided technical support for 1000 end-users.  ? Maintained hardware/software for 300 PC's  ? Primary administrator for Lotus cc:Mail email system.  ? Assisted in administration of a HP UNIX system. Education B.A. in Information Systems Thomas More College - Crestview Hills, KY