Systems Administrator III <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> III Elnora, IN Experienced system administrator with experience in the manufacturing and defense industries. Experienced with Windows desktop and server operating systems, PowerShell, SQL Server, Linux, and security. Currently working as a system administrator III providing services for desktop and server assets that are networked and standalone. I have a strong interest in automation, cloud, and security. CISSP provisionally passed on August 9th, and I am awaiting endorsement. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator III Bowhead Support - Crane, IN August 2018 to Present Performed monthly patches on unclassified and Classified Windows 10 and Server 2012 R2 computers.  Ran monthly Nessus scans and reported findings to ISSO.  Ran quarterly SCAP Benchmark scans and completed STIGs with the findings.  Built and maintained Windows 10 and Windows 7 images for standalone navy ship computers.  Imaged new computers and replaced old computers on unclassified and classified networks.  Used PowerShell to automate processes, gather data, and resolve issues on the network.  Maintained Asset inventory.  Resolved incidents and change request tickets.  Managed users in Active Directory.  Managed Group Policy for the domain. Systems Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology - Crane, IN August 2017 to August 2018 Scheduled and performed monthly patches on 47 production and test servers.  Ran SCAP scans on servers.  Completed quarterly STIG checklists on servers for ISSO.  Resolved incidents and documented solutions.  Maintained security of systems by fixing open findings on Nessus scans.  Ran and monitored ACAS scans to find and resolve open vulnerabilities.  Ran PowerShell scripts to report server data to ISSO. System Administrator Raydar & Associates - Crane, IN July 2016 to August 2017 Scheduled and performed monthly patches on 47 production and test servers.  Ran SCAP scans on servers.  Completed quarterly STIG checklists on servers for ISSO.  Resolved incidents and documented solutions.  Maintained security of systems by fixing open findings on Nessus scans.  Ran and monitored ACAS scans to find and resolve open vulnerabilities.  Ran PowerShell scripts to report server data to ISSO. System Administrator Kimball International July 2016 to August 2017 Performed monthly patches on unclassified and Classified Windows 10 and Server 2012 R2 computers.  Ran monthly Nessus scans and reported findings to ISSO.  Ran quarterly SCAP Benchmark scans and completed STIGs with the findings.  Built and maintained Windows 10 and Windows 7 images for standalone navy ship computers.  Imaged new computers and replaced old computers on unclassified and classified networks.  Used PowerShell to automate processes, gather data, and resolve issues on the network.  Maintained Asset inventory.  Resolved incidents and change request tickets.  Managed users in Active Directory.  Managed Group Policy for the domain. Infrastructure Technician Kimball International - Jasper, IN May 2014 to July 2016 Installed and maintained SQL Server 2014 on Windows Server 2012 R2 Servers.  Created and updated databases and tables.  Setup users and security in SQL Server and Windows Server.  Created reports with SQL Server Reporting Services.  Created workflows in SQL Server Integrated Services.  Performed tier 1 helpdesk services (password resets, remotely fixing computer problems, recovering files, etc.).  Created Windows Server 2012 R2 instances in vSphere 5.5.  Performed desktop support services (replaced hard drives, deployed new computers, break fix, etc.). Education B.S. in Information Technology Western Governor's University September 2017 Skills Active Directory, Powershell (2 years), Windows Server (4 years), System Administrator, Linux, Vmware, System Admin, Red Hat Certifications/Licenses Security+ CE Network+ Project+ MCP Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dwxrydnpl2nalmjk Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.