Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Fredericksburg, VA Work Experience Systems Administrator GeoNorth - Dahlgren, VA January 2019 to Present •                    Maintain both Secret and Unclassified Systems.  •                    Lead System Administrator responsible for 40-50 Red Hat Enterprise Linux systems  o  Responsible for monthly patching and resolving any issues users encounter, both hardware and software related  o  Ensuring any requested software installs are DADMS approved  •                     System Administrator responsible for assisting Jr. System Administrators in management of 20-30 Windows workstations  o  Responsible for monthly patching and resolving any issues users encounter, both hardware and software related  o  Create and maintain Powershell scripts for software patching  •                    Assist Senior Administrators in patching of Windows Servers and Linux Servers  •                    Audit Active Directly weekly to verify users are compliant with log-in requirements.   o  Disabling and deleting users that are not  •                    Scan systems included in core packages using ACAS Security Center  o  Resolving any vulnerabilities that flag.  o  This includes systems attached to domain as well as standalone systems  •                    Ensure systems meet DISA STIG Requirements  o  Run SCAP Compliance Checker and making required configuration changes.   •                    Running special scans for all Annual Security Reviews (ASR) and Quarterly Security Reviews (QSR)  o  Supply comments and remediations for justified vulnerabilities that remain open  o  Perform and document manual checks require by STIGs  •                    Upload monthly scans to VRAM  •                    Use in house ticketing system to document all work being performed  •                    Work variety of shifts to accommodate test event requirements, including overnight shifts. Jr. Systems Administrator Tatitlek - Dahlgren, VA April 2017 to January 2019 •                    Maintain both Secret and Unclassified Systems.  •                    Temporary Team Lead when Team Lead would take leave.  •                    Lead Jr. System Administrator responsible for management of 20-30 Windows workstations  o  Responsible for monthly patching and resolving any issues users encounter, both hardware and software related  o  Create and maintain Powershell scripts for software patching  o  Create and maintain GPO’s.   o  Ensuring any requested software installs are DADMS approved  •                    Audit Active Directly weekly to verify users are compliant with log-in requirements. Disabling and deleting users that are not  •                    Scan systems included in core packages using ACAS Security Center  o  Resolving any vulnerabilities that flag.  o  This includes systems attached to domain as well as standalone systems  •                    Ensure systems meet DISA STIG Requirements  o  Run SCAP Compliance Checker and making required configuration changes.   •                    Running special scans for all Annual Security Reviews (ASR) and Quarterly Security Reviews (QSR)  o  Supply comments and remediations for justified vulnerabilities that remain open  o  Perform and document manual checks required by STIGs  •                    Upload monthly scans to VRAM  •                    Use in house ticketing system to document all work being performed  •                    Respond to customer issues and inquiries from email, phone calls, and in person.  o  Create tickets and escalate them as required. Ensuring the correct team is aware of issue and working to resolve.  o  Gather all information pertaining to customer and system experiencing issues.  •                    Complete Data moves and media creations using various types of media – Secret and Unclassified Data  o  Optical Disks, DVDs, CDs, Flash Cards, Hard Drives, SD Cards  •                    Work variety of shifts to accommodate test event requirements, including overnight shifts  •                    Meet deadlines to create system builds matching customer requirements to support test events.  •                    Manually STIG Standalone systems.  Systems Technician Oasis Systems, LLC - Stafford, VA July 2016 to April 2017 • Perform basic troubleshooting (both hardware and software) on various devices such as laptops, printers, and servers.  • Complete various contract related projects using different processing and design tools including Microsoft Office and Microsoft Visio  • Coordinate with various contract leads to provide conference and meeting room space and availability  • Provide on-site security to maintain local office contractual and company assigned requirements  • Provide support with business administrative and overhead tasks assigned by local Director of Operations  • Assist in managing company Asset List Police Officer United States Capitol Police - Washington, DC May 2015 to July 2016 • Enforcing federal, state, and county laws, and agency rules and regulations relating to law enforcement.  • Physically protect the Capitol complex, Members of Congress, visitors, and staff from threats of crime and disruption; preserving law and order; serving as a deterrent to crime and other violations of laws, rules, and regulations.  • Restricting access; observing, stopping and questioning suspicious persons.  • Preparing reports.  • Performing protective services, guarding federally owned buildings and property and protecting government equipment and material. Soccer Trainer Leverone Technical Training Academy - Churchland, VA September 2010 to September 2014 • Organize sessions: create drills to develop technical ability  • Demonstrate skills and abilities when necessary  • Advocate participation and competition among players  • Resolve disputes that may occur amongst players  • Manage 10-20 kids Intern Mediation Center of Hampton Roads - Norfolk, VA February 2014 to April 2014 • Assist in individual divisions as needed  • Worked in Property division  ? Inmates items are inventoried  ? Must prepare items for storage  • Worked in Classifications  ? Sit-in during interview process of classifying inmate into custody level  ? Shadow rounds as Classification Officers walk their floors and check on inmates  ? Assist in basic paperwork Intern Mediation Center of Hampton Roads - Norfolk, VA January 2014 to April 2014 • Answer phone calls to keep the office running smoothly  • Schedule and register clients for meetings and classes  • Facilitate meetings by helping mediate conflict between parties  • Assist in meetings by aiding clients in renegotiating previous contracts and agreements Education Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice and Sociology Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA Skills Microsoft Office, Type 70+ WPM, Windows 10, Windows 7, Group Policy, Active Directory, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Powershell, System Admin, System Administrator, Red Hat Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ October 2016 CompTIA Network+ January 2017 Active Top Secret Clearance CompTIA Security+ May 2017 Additional Information USCP Recruit Class 180, 2015  • Class President  o Organize times for class to meet. Ensure the class is on time, wearing appropriate uniform, and has all required gear. Be the liaison between recruit officers and Sergeants and above.     Federal Law Enforcement Center Uniformed Police Training Program Graduate, 2015    National Society of Leadership and Success, 2014  • Inducted Member    Old Dominion University Men's Varsity Soccer Team, 2010-2014  • Captain 2014  ? Lead team through communication and example, promote unity, communicate coaches’ wishes with team, organize and set up additional practices, organize team events outside of practice.    Richmond Kickers Academy Soccer Team, 2007-2010  • Captain 2008-2010    Stafford High School Varsity Soccer Team, 2007-2010  • Captain 2010