Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Frisco, TX Work Experience Systems Administrator Riata Corporate Group - Addison, TX February 2017 to May 2019 Desktop and Server Administrator who provided Microsoft, VMWare, and HP and Dell software and hardware support for a global production environment. Focused on supporting geology software and hardware, as well as infrastructure. Learned 30+ specialty software packages to assist functions companywide.  • Maintained desktop environment of Microsoft Windows 7, 8, and 10, Office 365, SharePoint, Ricoh and Xerox printers, for 70 on-site and more than 100 employees globally.  • Managed Citrix environment of Citrix Studio, Netscaler, and Xenapp servers that hosted multiple applications including SAP and Integra.  • Managed software and hardware for local Geologists to effectively manage remote oil well activities: IHS Kingdom, Petra, Field Direct, Production Explorer, ArcGIS, Neuraview hardware, software and BUR with ShadowProtect.  • Coordinated physical storage for critical geological data to and from secure off-site storage.  • Created documentation for installing and managing software for end-users and systems administrators. Network Engineering Student Asher College - Addison, TX March 2016 to January 2017 Completed training and certifications for Microsoft MCSE Server 2012R2 and Cisco CCNA. Infrastructure Analyst HP Enterprise - Plano, TX January 2008 to October 2015 Microsoft Administrator who provided Microsoft, VMWare, McAfee, and HP software and hardware support for global, scalable, non-production lab infrastructure and services.  Performed build and management activities, and engaged experts from network, storage, and virtualization teams which allowed rapid provisioning and consistency to give clients a solid foundation for their product development initiatives.  Installed, configured, and managed VMware ESX and Microsoft Hyper-V hosts, and more than 2,000 virtual servers and desktops so that customers can quickly design custom applications and environments to support production activities and significantly reduce or eliminate costs of physical devices.  Developed and documented technical requirements and design for physical and virtual environments in Americas, Europe, and Asia Pacific.  Racked, installed, and configured physical servers, storage and network devices, HBAs, network cards, and other components, and deployed network and storage cabling.    HP Enterprise  Designed, deployed, and managed Microsoft Remote Desktop and RemoteApp servers so that more than 200 customers and employees could access devices on HP public and private networks. Also, configured ILOs, ILOMs, and DSView devices for remote access.  Provided daily threat and vulnerability management with Microsoft WSUS and HP Server Automation to identify and deploy critical security patches globally to more than 2,000 virtual and physical devices to adhere to HP's stringent security standards.  Participated in build, physical relocation, remote support, and decommission activities to maintain multiple labs in Americas, Asia Pacific, and Europe.  Provided hands-on support for a myriad of devices hosted in HP eLabs.  Managed customer projects from initial contact to project shutdown with minimal supervision. Systems Administrator EDS - Plano, TX July 2002 to January 2008 HP acquired EDS in 2008. Microsoft Administrator who provided OS, application, and infrastructure support to multiple development labs, technical classrooms, and customer sites.  • Provided and maintained U.S. development environments by installing and configuring Peregrine Asset Center, Service Center, ConnectIt, MobilizeIt, and Crystal Reports 7.5 so that developers could customize and deliver Digital Workflow solutions in Asia Pacific, Mexico, Brazil and Europe.  • Provided on-site and remote desktop and server support to Xerox in Lewisville, Irving, and Dallas.  • Managed customer requests and changes through Peregrine Asset Center.  • Installed and maintained Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Xerox software.  • Created, tested, deployed, and maintained EDS educational course images for technical classes.  • Created and delivered individual and small group end-user training of Microsoft products for EDS employees. Education Bachelor of Arts in English in English Oklahoma State University - Stillwater, OK Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Vmware, Xenapp, System Administrator, System Admin Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/bunch7503 Certifications/Licenses MCSE September 2016 to Present Microsoft MCSE Windows Server 2012R2 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) January 2017 to January 2020 Cisco CCNA