Systems Administrator III <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> III Sterling, CO Work Experience Systems Administrator III Whiting Oil and Gas Corporation 2015 to 2019 Veaam Backups VM Ware VM Server Crowdstrike Antivirus  Cisco Equipment Palo Alto Firewall SCADA Control Network  Safety Training for Oil and Gas Industry    Site Systems Administrator III  • Responsible for Entire SCADA and Corporate Network, Servers, Users, Workstations and Infrastructure in Redtail Area.  • Responsible for data integrity of SCADA & Corporate Network  • Responsible for communication between all communications between Field  Network, Control Network and Corporate Network.  • Responsible for data and access security for SCADA & Corporate Network  • Support for Control Network and Servers in four North Dakota Locations  and my Colorado Location  • Supported and Managed Dell Compellent, HP D2D, and three VMHost for SCADA Control Network  • Supported and Managed VMWare Hypervisor for Corporate Network  • Supported and Managed 50+ Virtual and Physical Servers in SCADA  Network and 4 Virtual Servers in Corporate Network  • Server Migration project from Windows 2008 & 2012 Server to Windows  2016 Server  • Patch Deployment for WSUS in SCADA Network utilizing WSUS  • Palo Firewall Management for Control Network  • Supported, Managed and Deployed Cisco IE3000's and IE4000;s for SCADA Control Field Network on Fiber Ring for Well Pad Sites  • Supported and Managed Veaam Backup Solution and Netbackup Solution.  • Deployment and Migration of Windows 10 Workstations to users in Corporate network  • Constantly communicating and working with North Dakota Field IT, Corporate Desktop support, Corporate Infrastructure, and SCADA Admins  • Total IT responsibility for Redtail Area.  • On Call Support and SME support for North Dakota Area Site Systems Administrator Sykes - Sterling, CO 2010 to 2015 • Worked closely with Site Director for Yearly and Monthly IT needs to insure we stayed within budget for Site needs.  • Adhere to all Company policies and enforced company polices where necessary. Performed remediation where needed.  • Maintained Servers using Windows 2000, Windows 2003 and Windows  2008. Applications running on maintained server was: ISA 2006, Symantec  Anti-Virus, Ghost Suite, DHCP, DNS, WINS, ISS, SharePoint Services, Active Directory, Websense, CallCopy Numerous client specific programs and WSUS.  • Setup SharePoint sites and local trackers to help accounts collect and report  data more efficiently.  • Maintained Monthly Patching and Security analysis for all Servers and Workstations.  • Helped with setup and deployment of Navori Signage within local site to push Account and site specific information.  • Helped with setup and deployment Global Village within Site  • Maintained Weekly VAM Security reports to insure all workstations and servers where in compliance with security standards  • Maintained Monthly, Quarterly and Yearly PCI Audits.  • Worked with Security Team, WAN Team, ESE Group and Developers for Projects including: PCI Account Implementation, CallCopy  Implementation, Patch Panel Rewire and Avaya Switch Migration to VoIP  solution.  • Setup new account tools access by working with WAN Team and by routing  tools through ISA Server.  • Setup User access groups for permissions and Email distribution list.  • Coordinated with WAN team setup of New VLAN assignments for New  Accounts and local projects  • Updated Systems documentation and used appropriate policies to make  changes needed or requested to any and all productions systems.  • Provided End User Support, Client Support, Emergency and Scheduled  Maintenance for all Servers, Workstations and provided backup support to Local ITA for all Telephony Systems maintained Locally, Maintained Local  Backups of all Servers,  • Used Ghost 11.5 to maintain and deploy client images to agent  workstations, and Maintained Local asset Inventory.  • Managed expenses of the department to stay in line with the sites budget.  While also upgraded systems that needed upgraded in a timely fashion. IT Coordinator Health Department - Sterling, CO 2011 to 2012 • Maintained Servers using Windows 2003 and Virtual Servers using VMWare  • Maintained Sonic Wall Wireless and Sonic Wall Firewall  • Maintained DFS for Windows. So users can access files within any location  and it is replicated between sites.  • Astrisk Free-PBX solution for VOIP in all Sites  • Project plan for Mail Server Upgrade. Either to Windows 2008 using a new  VM Server or Google Solution while maintaining all regulations for HIPPA  Compliance  • Maintained Blackberry BES Server  • Maintained Cisco Ironport  • Maintained Arc Mail Email Archive  • Maintained Trend Anti-Virus  • Maintained Active Directory  • Maintained Script Logic  • Utilized Script Logic for Desktop Support  • Migration of Exchange 2003 to Google Gmail for Business  • SQL 2005 Database and Crystal Reporting  • Security (HIPPA, PII, and PHI) Network Administrator RE1-Valley Schools - Sterling, CO 2007 to 2010 Maintained Servers using Windows 2000 and Windows 2003. Applications  running on maintained server was: ISA 2003, Exchange 2003, Veritas 11.0, Trend Anti-Virus, Lightspeed Systems, Student Information System, Ghost  Suite, DHCP, DNS, WINS, ISS, Accounting Software, Various Education  Software, Active Directory, and WSUS.  • Maintained Monthly Patching and Security analysis for all Servers and Workstations.  • Implementation and Deployment of New Servers for all Sites.  • Implementation and Deployment of Core Network infrastructure Upgrade.  • Implemented WSUS in all Schools.  • Implemented Centralized Backup utilizing Veritas and Quantum Library  • Implemented VoIP to three Location utilizing Cisco Networking equipment  and Local Fiber Carriers VoIP solution.  • Implemented Ghost Suite to develop images for quick Deployment.  • Implemented Reverse 911 and Call Notification System  • Implemented New Website hosting and assisted with Design and Work  Flow of Site.  • Implemented Transfinder Route Builder to help with efficiencies in the transportation department.  • Maintained Help Desk Tickets. Generated Reports, and planned a support  schedule for the entire School District  • Developed Plan to collapse all Child Domains and consolidate to one single  Domain.  • Developed Plan to centralize all Servers and consolidate to become more  cost efficient  • Worked within a budget to find the most efficient and cost effective ways to make Staff and Students more efficient, while enhancing the education  process for Students.  • Managed one Support staff to achieve goals and support service levels to tend to End Technical Needs and Support.  • Maintained and Developed Group Policies utilizing Active Directory  • Assisted with Implementation of New Student Information System  • Assisted in decision making for all technology needs.  • Developed and Implemented Present and Future implementation growth  goals for Systems and Network for the School District.  • Supported 1300+ Workstations  • Setup new software access for schools to connect to at different location.  • Setup User access groups for permissions and Email distribution list.  • Updated Systems documentation and used appropriate policies to make  changes needed or requested to any and all productions systems.  • Provided End User Support, Client Support, Emergency and Scheduled  Maintenance for all Servers,  • Used Ghost Suite to maintain and deploy client images to agent  workstations, and Maintained Local asset Inventory. Mentor Training Sykes - Sterling, CO 1999 to 2007 Sterling, Colorado    JOB TRAINING AQCUIRE D:    Telephony Training Systems Training MCSA Training  ALTD Training TPDM Creation Mentor Training  Customer Service Call Monitoring Call Control    Systems Administrator (SA)  • Maintained Servers using Windows NT Server, Windows 2000 and Windows 2003. Applications running on maintained server were: Computer  Telephony Integration, ISA 2000, Exchange 5.5, Veritas 10.0, Symantec  10.0, DHCP, Active Directory, and WSUS.  • Maintained Monthly Patching and Security analysis for all Servers and Workstations.  • Worked with WAN Team, ESE Group and Developers for Projects  including: CTI Implementation, Switch upgrade to 100/Full Network, Exchange Email Migration and New Account implementation.  • Setup new account tools access by working with WAN Team and by routing tools through ISA Server.  • Setup User access groups for permissions and Email distribution list.  • Coordinated with WAN team setup of New VLAN assignments for New  Accounts.  • Updated Systems documentation and used appropriate policies to make  changes needed or requested to any and all productions systems.  • Provided End User Support, Client Support, Emergency and Scheduled  Maintenance for all Servers, Workstations and provided backup support to Local ITA for all Telephony Systems maintained Locally, Maintained Local  Backups of all Servers,  • Used Ghost 8.0 to maintain and deploy client images to agent workstations, and Maintained Local asset Inventory.    Information Technology  Assistant (ITA)  • Maintained and assured Telephony systems integrity for the Call Center.  Telephony Systems Maintained: Avaya G3R PBX; Telephony Patch Panel;  POTS Demark, Site Wide Telephony Support; Call Master II, III, IV,V;  Audix Voice Mail; EAS; CentreVu Supervisor; Avaya Site Administrator;  Basic Vectoring and Split Skill Creations; Announcement creation and Maintenance and CentreVu Backups.  • Also assisted with Systems Administration with; Ghost Imaging; Norton  Anti-Virus Deployment; Maintaining Veritas Backups; Active Directory  Migration/Deployment; Active Directory User and Group Creations;  Microsoft Exchange Maintenance and User Creation; Keri Doors Systems  Database Maintenance;  • Basic Support for End Users and Clients; Emergency and Scheduled  maintenance of all Sterling Site Systems; Creation and Maintaining of Systems and Telephony Inventory;  • Troubleshooting of both Telephony and Systems issue  • Creation of Center Badge Picture Identification.  • Followed up on troubleshooting procedures for both Telephony and Systems outages.  • Re-wiring of Telephony patch panel to minimize troubleshooting and load  balance switch cabinets.  • Agent Logins, Station Extensions, DIDs, Split Skills and vectors where maintained per Company policy and standards.  • Windows Image deployment with Norton Ghost 7.0 and Ghost 8.0.  • Basic Support for Windows NT Novell network.    Team Manager  • Continuous Agent Development and Coaching  • Maintain Account metrics and needs  • Coaching and Development of agents based on Policies, Attendance, and Metrics  • Adjusting to client and Sykes needs based on current account goals and metrics  • Maintaining and\or improving morale for team  • Developing individual growth and goals for all agents in my team  • Insuring all payroll and time are updated for all agents under my team within SIMS  • Insuring all Agents are quality monitored weekly and coached to those  scores  • Helping close gaps in knowledge by providing feedback to the training  department  • Supporting the team in all Account specific and Sykes specific changes  • Working closely with agents who are not meeting Account goals to determine why and how we can help move towards those goals.    Technical Trainer  • Account Specific Training, Development of Training, and understanding of Agent strength and weaknesses.  • Working closely with Management to insure all Agents training needs are  met.  • Tracking Agents Productivity to insure an Agents success.    Roaming/Help Desk  • Answering and/or using the resources necessary to answer and help Agents  with Technical Needs.  • Researching unresolved issues to determine a possible "Fix".  • Determining of possible Network Issues related to an Increase in Call  Volume. Querying Mail Servers, Gateways, Redbacks, Authentication  Servers and Registration Servers to insure they are up and running properly.  • Testing ATM Ports and Loop availability.  • Determining CIDR blocks and Static Routes.  • Understanding Different Transports such as ISDN, DSL, Frame Relay, and Dial up to insure proper troubleshooting steps have been followed.  • Running reports to verify all policies and procedures are being followed.    Technician  • Helping Customers with any and all technical and customer services related  issues within current Scope of Support.  • Researching unresolved issues to determine a "Fix".  • Achieving Account Metrics while insuring customer satisfaction. Education CCNA COLLEGE CERTIFICATIO NS ACQUIRED November 2002 to November 2005 Northeastern Jr. College - Sterling, CO 1998 to 2002 High School Diploma HIGH SCHOOL ACCOMPLI SHMENTS May 1998 Burlington High School - Burlington, CO 1996 to 1998 Spartanburg High School - Spartanburg, SC 1994 to 1996 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qikxydnv1n-rf74g Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/epbij2-5pt-ze1i Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/y1n8deadmxaqg-8t Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lclfpze0srevtyel Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.