Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II - Excellus Blue Cross Blue Shield Baldwinsville, NY Professional with over 15 years of experience specializing in Unix and Windows environments. Detail-oriented in  strategic planning, implementation and troubleshooting. Creative problem solver who has found solutions to complete  projects on time and within budget. Work Experience Systems Administrator II Excellus Blue Cross Blue Shield - New York, NY October 2017 to Present Mitigated security vulnerabilities reported on Solaris and Windows servers from monthly scans. Implemented  new security standards for compliance with NYSITS policies.  • Built new development and test environment consisting of Coldfusion, Oracle and Sybase on new SPARC  servers running Oracle VM Server.  • Migrated to new change management system including problem and incident management  • Implemented new monitoring/alert system Manager, SRM Planning, Time Warner Cable Charter Communications - New York, NY May 2016 to October 2017 Manage team of 12 for planning, implementing and troubleshooting switch digital video across 90+ sites. This  includes installing and maintaining hardware, software and video configuration to company standards and launching SDV to new areas and working/coordinating with multiple departments, including network  engineering, inside plant, and plan and design teams.  • Led MP4 initiative by planning, creating, configuring and launching 55+ video services to enterprise to reclaim  spectrum resulting on average a gain of 3 qams worth.  • Planned and prepared multiple sites for standardization of programming and pricing with migration and conversion of linear to/from switch digital sources to offer more programming and high speed data bandwidth.  • Coordinated and migrated legacy UCS hardware running virtual Linux servers across networks to keep with network standards. Worked with networking team with ASA firewalls to ensure proper rules and configurations.  • Organized central repository of standard operating procedure documents. Senior Systems Engineer Time Warner Cable - New York, NY September 2014 to May 2016 • Planned and implemented solutions for spectrum optimization and realignment yielding more efficient use for offered programming and high speed data bandwidth.  • Centralized, standardized and documented procedures for configuration and operation of video services running  on Linux servers.  • Developed scripts for data gathering and remote configuration on supported equipment and Linux environments  to maximize efficiency and reducing overhead.  • Mentored and trained team engineers on current operating procedures. Systems Engineer Time Warner Cable - New York, NY March 2014 to September 2014 Planned and executed the migration of SRM and VOD services to updated Linux virtual servers with latest  company approved software that provides efficient use of shared edgeqam resources.  • SME in switch digital and video on-demand using SRM and CDS platforms on Linux servers.  • Developed MOPs used for configuring switch digital and video on-demand environments. Interactive Systems Engineer Time Warner Cable - New York, NY February 2012 to March 2014 Responsible for troubleshooting, support and maintenance of Unix/Linux systems, applications and equipment  used for all Interactive Services. This includes support of Digital Network Control System (DNCS), Cisco  Content Delivery Systems (CDS) for video-on-demand services, and USRM for switch digital video services.  • Assisted with the planning, consolidation and migration of systems to regional datacenter. This included  migration of legacy USRMs to regional Cisco UCS environment.  • Created procedures and documentation for Service Group creation, migration and validation.  • Generated scripts and reports of hardware and software statuses of Northeast CDS gear.  • Provided training to new hires.  80 Chaucer Circle  Baldwinsville, New York 13027  kshum715@gmail.com  (315) 715-1374 Appliance Engineer ShoreGroup, Inc - New York, NY November 2010 to February 2012 • Managed and configured CaseSentry appliances to monitor various network devices including Cisco routers, Cisco ASA firewalls, Cisco switches, and Cisco call managers using snmp, snmptraps, and syslog.  • Maintained MySQL databases including replication and failover.  • Configured MRTG to graph various metrics of monitored devices. Senior Systems Engineer Tickets.com - New York, NY October 2000 to July 2010 • Part of team responsible for obtaining PCI compliancy of core products to ensure security in transactions.  • Led team responsible for creating a full staging area for our core product, including Akamai functionality.  • Responsible for the migration of our HA load balancers from F5's BigIP to Citrix NetScaler and implemented  Global Server Load Balancing into our redesigned and consolidated BIND DNS solution.  • Assisted with creation of Disaster Recovery plans to provide a redundant site at another datacenter to provide  failover. Implemented 3Par Storage Array for data replication between data centers. Tape backup recovery  plans created for critical servers running Oracle databases and for HP-UX systems and Linux systems.  • Part of team that migrated all Solaris 2.x servers running Oracle database, Tomcat, Jboss and Apache to Fedora  Core and RedHat Enterprise Linux.  • Responsible for deployment of java code from QA to production environment.  • Configured 24/7 monitoring of servers and network devices using BigBrother, Ipswitch WhatsUp Gold, and SolarWinds Orion. This includes SNMP monitoring. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Syracuse University Skills Apache, Linux, Shell scripts, Solaris, Sparc