Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Complete Document Solutions Inglewood, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator Complete Document Solutions - Inglewood, CA July 2016 to Present Implement, manage and monitor all core infrastructure systems in multiple locations. Day to day administration of Office 365 and Microsoft Windows Servers, Windows 2012/2016/2019, Active Directory, DHCP and DNS.  Notable Accomplishments:  • Planned, implemented, and maintained a Windows domain based infrastructure  • Created online documentation to help employees resolve day to day issues  • Provided company-wide desktop and remote help desk support  • Implemented new security protocols using Group Policy  • Training Level 1 and level 2 helpdesk  • Acted as an escalation point for troubleshooting network/ systems issues; leaving internal and external customers satisfied with timely resolutions and great communication. Tier 2 Technical Support Rapiscan Systems - Torrance, CA July 2013 to July 2016 Responsible for administration and internal & external support of the Company's PCs, printers, servers, and related equipment. Tasks include end user support, license tracking, and performing PC maintenance, upgrades and configuration of Windows Servers. Strong and friendly skills. Bilingual  Notable accomplishments:  • Troubleshot computers over the phone with customer and technicians  • Installation of software patches for computers.  • Conducted installations, maintenance, repairs  • Proven success working in high-volume, 24x7 technical call centers. Demonstrated strengths in rapidly diagnosing, troubleshooting and resolving client issues.  • Consistently praised for communicating effectively with both technical and nontechnical users. Known for excellent problem-solving skills and patience in dealing with frustrated users Education Associates of Science in Computer Information in Systems El Camino College Torrance CA 2011 to 2013 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin, Vmware Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/richard-olmos-a9b80587