Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Engineer Fairfax, VA • Highly organized, disciplined, and quality-driven IT Professional with a background in managing vendor relations, team management, networking, and systems administration.   • Passionate about Information Technology and IT service delivery.  • Managed a team of Systems Integrators while managing customer expectations and team efforts. Briefed and presented to ambassadors and other C-level executives.  • Leveraged deep technical knowledge to solve complex problems; able to operate successfully and independently as a team lead in varied environments overseas.  • Outstanding verbal and written communication skills with the ability to explain technical concepts to non-technical personnel. Able to maintain professional demeanor under pressure and response to customer requests rapidly and accurately.  • Exceptional organizational skills and ability to prioritize tasks accordingly.   • Seasoned experience in network/ systems administration, server install and setup, software installations and configurations, strategic decision making, and project management.   • Practiced in learning new skills in a short period of time. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator HITT CONTRACTING INC. - Falls Church, VA October 2016 to Present • Deploy, monitor, maintain, enhance, and support IT systems, including networks, servers, phones and associated hardware.  • Manage servers, including Exchange, File, Print, and their associated operating systems and software.  • Design, implement and manage job site networks.  • Manage backup processes.  • Assist in performing the monthly patching of servers.  • Troubleshoot and maintain all network hardware and equipment, including routers, switches, UPS, systems and firewalls.  • Work with virtualized environment and network storage.  • Interact with Vendors and contractors to secure network products and services.  • Create and maintain documentation as it relates to network configuration, mapping, processes, and service records.  • Participate in managing all network security solutions.  • Manage and migrate users to Office 365.  • Adhere to applicable policies and procedures. Storage Engineer Day1 Solutions - McLean, VA August 2016 to October 2016 • Drive all phases of storage engineering, including architecture, design, implementation,   management and monitoring.  • Provide solutions architecture from start to finish.  • Manage storage infrastructure through application of deep technical expertise of storage systems,   storage administration and networking.  • Develop and maintain documentation for all facets of the storage infrastructure.  • Research new technologies and architecture enterprise storeage, data replication, and data recovery   solutions.  • Effectively and professionally interact with clients and customers. Storage Consultant PGTEK - Ashburn, VA November 2015 to July 2016 • Implement NetApp hardware including rack and stack, cabling and configuration.  • Travel to client sites to perform Professional Services installation and implementation.  • Ensure customers are satisfied with the work performed and maintain a good working relationship.  • Work with Account Managers and Program Managers to ensure the work is complete and accurate.  • Use NetApp Config Advisor to check configuration setup and accuracy.  • Effectively install, upgrade and manage newly deployed NetApp storage systems.  • Performing the full scope of Professional Services for NetApp. Lead Engineer Booz Allen Hamilton - Springfield, VA December 2014 to December 2015 • Engineered solutions for various project and operational needs for U.S. Customs and Border Protection in a NOC/SOC.  • Installed new/rebuild existing servers and configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements.  • Developed and maintained installation and configuration procedures.  • Contributed to and maintained system standardization documents.  • Performed daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes. Reviewed system and application logs, and verified completion of scheduled jobs.  • Performed daily backup operations, ensuring all required file systems and system data are successfully backed up to the appropriate media, recovery tapes or disks are created, and media was recycled and sent off site as necessary.  • Performed regular file archival and purges as necessary.  • Created, changed, and deleted user accounts in Active Directory.  • Provided Tier III support upon request from various constituencies. Investigated and troubleshot reported issues.  • Repaired and recovered from hardware and software failures. Coordinated and communicated with impacted constituencies.  • Applied OS patches and upgrades on a regular basis, and upgraded administrative tools and utilities. Configured/added new services as necessary.  • Maintained operational, configuration, SOPs, and other procedural documentation.  • Worked with vendors to procure IT equipment and software. Senior Systems Engineer/Team Lead ManTech International Corporation - Springfield, VA May 2010 to December 2014 • Upgrade the Department of State's network.  • Provide level III support for Systems Engineer in the field while performing upgrades.  • Load layer 2 and 3 ISO on CISCO switches.  • Telnet/hyperterminal into switches to change configuration.  • Configure CISCO switches and various other types of peripheral equipment and software.  • Setup and configure vlans on CISCO switches.  • Install and deploy CISCO switches into rack and closets.  • Setup and configure VMWare ESXi 5.02  • Add host servers to Virtual Center.  • Stage and setup NetApp devices.  • Promote and demote domain controllers.  • Configure DNS on domain controllers.  • Build and stage Microsoft Exchange Servers.  • Rack servers with cable management.  • Configure CISCO switches and various other types of peripheral equipment and software.  • Setup backups using FastBack/FilesX/NetApp SnapProtect and offsite backup with UltraBac.  • Stand up Citrix terminal server along with configuring any printers and policies.  • Configure and build XenCenter along with VDI-in-a-Box.  • Terminate copper and fiber cable.  • Install and setup thin clients and workstations.  • Configure and stand up member servers along with any settings assosciated with them.  • Setup DHCP scope.  • Maintain file servers, network access, document and analyze system anomalies to ensure optimum equipment performance.  • Prepare system for operational use and support operational tests.  • Perform setup, configuration, and troubleshooting of Windows 2000/XP workstations, Windows 2000/2003 servers/advanced servers and Windows 2008 domain controllers.  • Build and configure Windows 2008/SQL 2012 Clustering. Systems Engineer Intercom Consulting & Federal Systems - Springfield, VA October 2009 to May 2010 • Perform rigorous test on software and application that are on any and all workstations and servers.  • Provide software that automates security setting on workstations worldwide.  • Maintain lifecycle for all lab core applications.  • Integrate security into vendor supplied software installation packages.  • Hack registry hive on a Windows system in order to secure government systems and applications.  • Test and document all security settings provided by security team.  • Build and maintain all Windows servers and workstations.  • Explore and implement new technologies as they are relevant.  • Write detailed Test and Evaluation report.  • Perform peer reviews on all documentation prior to submission.  • Provide QA after group peer review has been completed on all documents.  • Ensure that the security configuration for applications is supportable, manageable, and reportable.  • Configure applications according to NIST/FDCC. Systems Administrator Unisys Corporation - Reston, VA December 2008 to October 2009 • Support and maintain custom database application.  • Responsible for server maintenance at client site.  • Work with client to troubleshoot any issues with application.  • Configured VMware ESXi 3.5 for test environment and used VMconverter to migrate from old to new host machine.  • Setup and troubleshoot desktops for developers and any support they need.  • Activities focused on the technical support of production and development for end-user computing.  • Document workflow and checklist.  • Use Windows Deployment Services to image workstations.  • In Active Directory, create Folder OU, move computer and user accounts, unlock user accounts, reset password, manage user permissions, set mailbox permissions.  • Built domain controllers with Active Directory.  • Install and configure SQL Server 2005. Systems Analyst Gannett/USA Today - McLean, VA October 2004 to December 2008 • Performed daily task in Microsoft Systems Management Server 2003 including software distribution, reporting and queries.  • Managed BlackBerry Enterprise Server and Good Mobile Messaging for all users on mobile devices.  • Configured and setup BlackBerries to tether as modems for laptops.  • Responsibilities included answering Desktop Services support phone and providing first level support for users of PCs, printers and host connections in a LAN environment.  • Set up workstations and laptops for new employees; configured systems, and installed and tested hardware and software.  • Responsible for coordination of all desktop and laptop hardware maintenance functions either through Lenovo, Dell or other approved vendors.  • Accountable for updating security patches on workstations through Windows Server Update Services.  • Created GPO to manage workstations as needed.  • Lead IT person for new project implemented for our consolidated Call Center.  • Demonstrated ability to learn new technology in short period of time.  • Managed user accounts, groups, contacts, and computers through Active Directory. Education Master of Science in Applied Information Technology Towson University August 2002 to May 2004 Bachelor of Arts in Legal Studies University of Massachusetts August 1998 to May 2002 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin, SCCM, Office 365