Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - S. WALTER PACKAGING CORP Willow Grove, PA Work Experience Systems Administrator S. WALTER PACKAGING CORP - Philadelphia, PA April 2018 to Present - Linux Focus  ? Maintain and implement 80+ systems in an environment of 120 employees, 7  offices nationwide.  ? Institute documentation system, structure, and process for all current infrastructure.  ? Train End-Users through Documentation and Webinars on software/ systems used  throughout the enterprise.  ? Manage hosted VOIP, unified communications platform, and Office 365 for all  users.  ? Work with vendors to implement DMZ, firewall, ISP, and other network upgrades.  ? Disaster Recovery and storage planning, implementation, and follow-through including network storage, backups, and co-location.  ? Full VMWare installation including multiple hosts, VCSA configuration, and backup systems (custom built) Systems and Network Administrator EXACT PAYROLL, INC - Huntingdon Valley, PA October 2016 to April 2018 Managed 120 devices including servers, routers, and switches for 25 internal users  and over 100 clients.  ? Customized hardware, including biometrics, and software for users and customers.  ? Maintained a secure network with timely patches, upgrades, and user training.  ? Solved business problems using various technologies including Office 365, cloud- hosted email, and NAS implementation for secure, AAA file storage.  ? Used knowledge gained through certifications to improve network functionality,  speed and security.  ? Trusted as both a physical key-holder as well as a domain administrator in a business that deals with highly regulated data and many individuals' personal  information.  1406 Fitzwatertown Road | Willow Grove | PA | 19090 | tel: 267.992.1903 Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting / MIS TEMPLE UNIVERSITY, Fox School of Business - Philadelphia, PA May 2016 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Linux, Linux Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory Additional Information SKILLS:  ? Versed in software such as MS Office, Visual Studio, Payroll software, remote  access tools such as RDP and TeamViewer, and other office applications.  ? CompTIA certified Network+. Security+ and Linux+/LPIC on roadmap.  ? Windows Environment experience including Active Directory and Group Policy,  WSUS, Network monitoring tools, and end-user software.  ? Linux enterprise experience including databases, application servers, and  specialized use-case firmware for client needs, as well as services and  Microservices such as:  - Docker  - BIND DNS  - Samba and NFS/CIFS/etc.  - Rsync, SSH, SCP, etc.  • Automation focus using PowerShell, Bash, Git, CI/CD, Cron.  • Virtualization/Containerization using VMWare, Hyper-V, KVM, FreeNAS, and  Docker.  • Monitoring and Alerting using Nagios, OMD, and Zabbix.  • Networking experience including firewalls (hardware and software), switching,  wireless networks (with guest portal), and web/email filtering.  • Web Development basics including HTML, CSS, SCSS, JavaScript.  ? Years in Sales related positions, and customer service roles have built soft-skills  comparable to technical skills.  ? Hardware installation and wiring, rack management and cooling needs.    U.S. citizen