Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Citrus Heights, CA Security and Information Technology Professional, with over 20 years of experience, relevant education, and certifications, seeking to utilize extensive experience in a challenging Security assignment Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator TEKSYSTEMS / SGS - Rancho Cordova, CA December 2017 to Present Contracted to SGS for the Cal-VISTA program. I am both the Windows Systems Engineer and also the Security Engineer. I work directly with the Information Security Officer for creating and updating the Security Program and documentation.  My Security Engineer duties include the AlienVault SIEM for security analysis and vulnerability functions. I run the scans and prep the results for management and other systems and network engineering groups. As the Windows System Engineer I built the entire Active Directory authentication system across multiple domains and data centers to be used for LDAP authentication. I implement all controls and configuration to bring the AD infrastructure to compliance with the Security Program. Senior Systems Engineer - Managed Services PTI Solutions - McClellan, CA September 2007 to December 2017 As the Sr. Systems Engineer I was responsible for a team to perform projects and maintenance at client sites. Part of these duties included security scanning and documentation. This would be collected from many sources including web based SIEM, system events, network events, configurations, and discussions with clients. This information would be combined and a report was created to give to the client with recommendations on remediation, upgrades, and overall health of the environment. If approved, I would implement the solution and upgrades in the customers environment. Documentation and training would follow. Education Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering Technology ITT Technical Institute-Rancho Cordova - Rancho Cordova, CA June 1997 to December 2001 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Security, Disaster Recovery, Network Administration, Virtualization, Firewalls, VPN, securi Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: Spec-4 December 1991 to April 1995 Intelligence Analyst and Infantry. Commendations: National Defense Service Medal  Southeast Asia Service Medal  Army Good Conduct Medal Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) July 2019 to July 2022 Additional Information Security and Information Technology Professional, with over 20 years of experience.