Systems Administrator I <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I Systems Administrator I - Bluegrass Cellular Elizabethtown, KY Work Experience Systems Administrator I Bluegrass Cellular January 2019 to Present • Administered over 60 Meraki networking devices, including the MX, MS, and MR products.  • Acted as project lead and technical resource during a push to replace all defective Meraki switches at 18 store locations.  • Assisted with development and deployment of Raspberry Pis to replace a vendor-supported broadcast player system for store demos, saving $45,000 for the company.  • Wrote Python scripts and PowerShell program to automate the changing of audio files on Raspberry Pi's from one central location to 18 different store locations.  • Successfully rebuilt entire phone system infrastructure and acted as technical lead during that project. This included Cisco UC servers and all 3rd-party apps.  • Supported many 3rd-party voice applications, including Upstream Works, Calabrio, 2Ring, SurveyCX, MicroCall, Bridge Operator Console, and Variphy.  • Successfully deployed Calabrio v10 to multiple Contact Centers and acted as primary technical resource for that product.  • Used vCenter to create new VMs, implement VM snapshots, and manage a VM inventory. Service Desk Technician Bluegrass Cellular April 2018 to December 2018 • Used Active Directory extensively to manage user profiles, migrate users, disable users, etc.  • Supported and performed troubleshooting on a plethora of devices, including IP Printers, Desktop PCs, IP Phones, POS Stations and Peripherals, as well as the accompanying software for each of these devices  • Set up and connected a multitude of user workstations, including multiple-monitor stations, IP Phones, laptop docks, etc.  • Traveled to store locations to complete IT maintenance and provide IT Service solutions.  • Worked with Networking team to install networking equipment to racks, observed best practices with cable management, and configured said equipment  • Set up local network to push firmware out to multiple networked PDUs at once, leading to an efficient and secure solution  • Implemented Automation solutions via PowerShell for Internet Helpdesk to increase speed of user logons and ease-of-use  • Used PowerShell to automate Active Directory tasks and create tools for the Service Desk team  • Used tools such as FirePower Management Center and Wireshark to troubleshoot firewalls  • Configured users in CUCM, Cisco Unity, and UCCX, as well as set up both soft phones and hard phones Education Bachelor of Science in Network Ops & Security Western Governors University September 2019 Bachelor of Arts in History University of Kentucky May 2015 Additional Information • CompTIA A+, Network+, Security+, Linux+/LPIC-1  • Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA): Routing and Switching  • Cisco Certified Design Associate (CCDA)  • ITIL Foundations  • CIW Site Development Associate  • Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA): Security