Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Associated Credit Union of Texas League City, TX Sharp, innovative Information Technology (IT) professional with wide-ranging experience in virtualization, networking, operating systems, programming, servers and databases for sustaining efficient computer and infrastructure operations.     • Employ calm demeanor in quickly diagnosing and solving problems crucial to business operations.  • Constantly research new computer technologies and trends to enhance systems' performance, make available new features, improve the environment of end-users and automate processes to simplify jobs.  • Strong troubleshooting and problem resolution skills, quickly identifying and solving crucial data center problems.  • Take charge to improve operations and overcome barriers to maximizing data center operations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Associated Credit Union of Texas - League City, TX 2012 to Present Administer hardware/software systems and standard computer center functions to sustain high-performing operations for multiple Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Exchange, MS SQL and Linux servers.  • Architect, maintain and enhance existing and future virtual environments to reduce overhead costs and better manage rapid updates, and improve efficiency and resource availability.  • Maintained Network operations, including bandwidth monitoring, switch and router replacement and expansion of network.  • Continually determine innovations to improve the infrastructure by participating in technical research/development.  • Monitor the system daily to verify integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes; validating completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  • Install and configure hardware, operating systems and third-party software, and conduct ongoing performance tuning and resource optimization to increase performance and sustain efficient operations.  • Troubleshoot and support Microsoft Windows desktop end-users, providing additional Tier II escalation support.  • Virtual storage area network (VSAN) cluster.  • Defined VMware setup at Corporate Office and directed entire VMware operations to sustain high performance. Student Data Center Operations OITS - Huntsville, TX 2011 to 2011 2011 Education Bachelor of Computer Science Sam Houston State University Huntsville - Huntsville, TX Skills Windows Server (6 years), MySQL (3 years), System Administration (5 years), Unix Administration (2 years), Exchange Server (5 years), Network Administration (6 years), Vmware (7 years), Reporting (4 years), Database Management (5 years), Virtualization (6 years), AWS (1 year), System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Linux, Active Directory, Linux Administrator, Linux, System Administrator, System Admin, Redhat Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate September 2018 to September 2020 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Software General: SQL Server and Microsoft Office Suite  Applications Software: Interactive Intelligence VoIP, VMware ESXi and vCenter, and Microsoft Exchange  Languages: C++, Java, ADA and COBOL  Operating Systems: Linux, UNIX, Microsoft Windows , Microsoft Windows Server, and Cisco IOS  Hardware: HP, Dell, IBM and Cisco  Tools Programs: Group Policy, Active Directory and PowerShell  Databases: MySQL, MS SQL, SYBASE and PostgreSQL  Cloud: AWS