Systems Administrator (Consultant) <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Consultant) Systems Administrator (Consultant) - GE Lighting Strongsville, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator (Consultant) GE Lighting March 2018 to Present • Monitor and maintain all servers in the GE Lighting infrastructure.  • Work site trouble tickets to minimize issues and downtime for all production environments.  • Server patch deployment during maintenance windows using Shavlik.  • Work with vendors to make sure all system warranties are up to date.  • Create and update documentation for all processes within our environment.  • Implement and maintain server monitoring system.  • Decommission and recycling of old servers to clean up server room Ground Labor DNS Technologies September 2017 to March 2018 • General labor assisting the electricians and data technicians with various customer projects.  • Track inventory at different job site to ensure ample supplies were in stock for the projects.  • Ensure proper disposal of light fixtures and bulbs from site to site.  • Coordinate delivery and pickup schedules with different vendors.  • Follow detailed drawings to ensure projects completed according to the customers specifications.  • Pulled and terminated CAT6 cabling at customer sites as needed IT Manager/ Systems Administrator KGC Computers October 2015 to May 2017 • Configure and troubleshoot customer connectivity issues with their Fortinet Firewalls.  • Update and maintain customer's servers remotely and onsite as needed.  • Phone and remote support for all client desktop/laptop issues.  • Setup and maintain user accounts in Active Directory and Exchange 2013.  • Break fix residential customer desktop/laptop.  • Order parts or equipment needed for client systems.  • Configure email for users on their mobile devices.  • Work with warranty providers for claims issues on clients iPads or Surfaces.  • 24 hour on call rotation. Systems Administrator Life Line Screening June 2014 to October 2015 • Image and deploy systems to end users within our office and in the field.  • Build and maintain virtual/physical server environment.  • Test and implement new technologies to improve the customer experience of our organization.  • Setup and maintain user accounts in Active Directory and Exchange 2010.  • Implement and maintain our wireless network.  • Manage WSUS approvals for the organization.  • Order, setup, and maintain our company mobile devices and account.  • Remote support for users in the field.  • 24 hour on call rotation. Systems Administrator MRI Software March 2011 to June 2014 • Build and maintain virtual/physical server environment.  • Work client trouble tickets to maintain maximum environment uptime.  • Build out and configure new datacenters within the US and overseas.  • Test and implement new software and technologies to help improve the efficiency of the working environment as well as the customer experience.  • Consult with clients regarding best practices to expand their current environment.  • Manage CommVault backup environment and offsite tape rotation.  • Provide 3Par storage to new and existing server requiring additional storage.  • Monitor server statistics through the NOC and address areas of concern.  • 24 hour on call support rotation IT Systems Administrator ASW Global August 2008 to March 2011 • Help desk support for all users in four locations.  • Design flow charts for sales staff using Microsoft Visio.  • New systems setup and configuration including Microsoft Outlook setup.  • Hardware upgrades/installation for current systems as needed.  • Blackberry administration including account maintenance, configuration, and troubleshooting.  • Work with various support vendors for support and contract renewal Certified Consultant Full Capacity International February 2007 to August 2008 • Server and workstation installation of Sage Accpac accounting software.  • Design and modify reports within Accpac using Crystal Reports editing software.  • Install and configure workstations, troubleshoot hardware and software issues.  • Field customer calls and troubleshoot issues.  • Work with other vendors to provide smooth integration of Sage Accpac with other software already in use by the customers. Local IS Support Expeditors Intl. of WA November 2004 to February 2007 • File, Application and Lotus Notes Email Server installation, configuration, maintenance and troubleshooting.  • Install and configure workstations, troubleshoot hardware and software issues, system customization.  • Creation and modification of client status reports used by operations to track shipments.  • 24 hour on call support for entire Cleveland branch. Education Associate of Applied Science degree in Computer Networking Systems ITT Technical Institute Strongsville March 2002 to March 2004 Skills Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator