Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Peoria, AZ Highly skilled PC Technician, with exceptional insight and knowledge of installing and configuring desktop hardware, operating systems and software, experience and knowledge of Microsoft Active Directory, Windows 7/10, monitoring and managing user accounts, and maintaining equipment. Strong background in providing assistance for users to correct problems with computer systems, mobile devices and peripheral equipment. Proactive and hardworking team player with focused mentality and rigorous approach. Work Experience Systems Administrator Redflex Traffic Systems Inc - Glendale, AZ August 2016 to July 2019 • Responsible for the installation, maintenance, configuration, and integrity of computing hardware and software in compliance with standards.  • Responsibility for the uptime, performance, and recoverability of the systems both hardware and software.  • User Account lifecycle management (Creation, Modification and Disposition) were a core function of this job  • Active Directory - users and machines management.  • Monitored the ticketing system resolving or escalating as appropriate.  • Responsible for implementation of recovery procedures, writing reports, business correspondence, user instructions, and procedure manuals.  • Performed hardware and software upgrades and monitored system performance (Upgraded all the workstations from Windows 7 to Windows 10).  • Troubleshoot Windows 10 and Microsoft Office 365 issues.  • Managed the VOIP (voice over IP) system (CISCO IP phones).  • MacOS X and Apple devices troubleshooting  • Supported the activities of the IT Team as an active and supportive team member.  • Completed projects on agreed to time lines and within pre-defined budgetary constraints.  • 2nd and 3rd tier support for all Help Desk escalated support issues.  • Installed and upgraded internal and third party software.  • Worked with users to determine areas of technology in need of improved usability Technical Advisor Redflex Traffic Systems Inc - Glendale, AZ May 2013 to August 2016 • Configured and troubleshoot CISCO routers, cradle points, and modems.  • Worked closely with Field Supervisors and Field Technicians to identify and resolve customer related issues resulting from equipment deficiencies.  • Used automated reports and analyzers to help identify and prioritize the resolution of issues found on Automated Photo Enforcement Systems.  • Through remote access from the office and local onsite work, configured, calibrated, and troubleshoot mobile and fixed photo enforcement systems.  • Tracked trends in system performance and implemented actions to maintain contractual obligations.  • Troubleshoot, diagnosed and repaired photo enforcement systems with Field Service Technicians in both a support and training role. Field Service Technician Redflex Traffic Systems Inc - Glendale, AZ November 2011 to May 2013 • Ensured that assigned systems were engineered, configured and optimized for maximum functionality and availability  • Installed, repaired and maintained digital Photo Enforcement equipment (photo and video cameras, computers, sensors)  • Performed daily checks of enforcement systems to confirm operations and monitored all systems as equipment dictates  • Investigated and troubleshot product service issues weekly.  • Reviewed technical documentation to perform accurate repairs on diverse equipment.  • Performed annual service visits and completed preventative maintenance on all systems. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bolyai University 1998 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, NETWORK TROUBLESHOOTING, TECHNICAL SUPPORT, WINDOWS 7, LAN, SCCM, Windows, Customer Service, Networking Assessments Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hyauw0tjpwovxfb7 Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ksleesvkns7w5oxl Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  • Hardware and software installation  • Computer/Network troubleshooting  • Operating Systems: Windows 7/10  • User support  • Technical support    • Microsoft Office 365  • Active Directory  • User accounts management and monitor  • LAN  • Excellent interpersonal skills