Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Bill's Music House, INC Baltimore, MD Work Experience Systems Administrator Bill's Music House, INC - Catonsville, MD January 2018 to Present Maintained and updated AIMsi (Point-of-Sale system) Windows, Linux and IOS workstations, SQL databases, network devices, and network servers totaling well over 100 assets.   ? Compiled and analyzed network information, hardened security protocols, and provided information assurance and redundancy to maximize network utilization for both customers and staff.  ? Created new procedures and documentation of best practices for implementing network protocols, improving Point-of-Sale performance, and organizing hardware updates. Cryptologic Technician Networking US Navy - Fort Meade, MD August 2013 to November 2017 Practiced and implemented "Cyber Hunt" security strategies, assuming the perspective of both potential intruders and network engineers, ensuring a robust security posture.  ? Developed and supported Standard Operating Procedures for the utilization of a multi-faceted network analysis framework, allowing for rapid deployment of monitoring capabilities across a variety of unique networks.  ? Delivered training on methods of technical data analysis, and for Navy policies and procedures. Installation Technician Pitt Electric and HVAC - Greenville, NC February 2012 to August 2013 Constructed and transported HVAC ductwork to job sites, meeting deadlines ahead of scheduled time.  ? Conducted QA analysis and testing to ensure safety and maximize customer experience Education Computer Science Joint Cyber Analysis Course - Pensacola, FL October 2013 to July 2014 Skills Cisco (4 years), Router (5 years), Network Security (5 years), ZEEK (Formerly BRO) Network Analysis (2 years), Splunk (Network Data Analysis Tool) (2 years), Snort (NIDS & NIPS System) (2 years), ELSA (Enterprise Log Search and Archive) (2 years), SQL (2 years) Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E5 Certifications/Licenses Digital Media Collecor August 2016 to August 2019 Culmination of 60 hours of classroom instruction and assessments on a variety of forensic concepts including: Case Assessment and Planning, Chain-of-Custody Maintenance, Imaging and Data Collection, Procedural Logging, Analysis, and Exporting. Assessments Technical Support — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cjyw7yka8yz-3j77 Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient April 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s-l0ioepub1cr26e Problem Solving — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4yjfepcmcrswze7r Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.