Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Atmore, AL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator CSRA / GDIT - Pensacola, FL December 2015 to November 2018 Administered 4 VMware vCenter installations hosting 30+ ESXi hosts and 300+ virtual machines. Administered user and group accounts. Troubleshot network problems and managed network resources including file sharing, replication, network printers, servers, and tape backups. Resolved end user's hardware, software, and network related problems. Maintained inventory for NETC tagged equipment. Administered NETC's enterprise monitoring system (ScienceLogic) that monitored over 1000 devices which is Linux based. I administered and maintained a Solaris SFTP file server hosting over 100 users using OpenSSH. Systems Administrator CSC - Pensacola, FL June 2010 to December 2015 Administered user and group accounts. Troubleshot network problems and managed network resources including file sharing, replication, network printers, servers, and tape backups. Resolved end user's hardware, software, and network related problems. Maintained inventory for NETC tagged equipment. Administered NETC's enterprise monitoring system (ScienceLogic) that monitored over 1000 devices which is Linux based. I administered and maintained a Solaris SFTP file server hosting over 100 users using OpenSSH. Systems Integrator CSC - Pensacola, FL May 2004 to June 2010 Administered user and group accounts. Troubleshoots network problems and managed network resources including file sharing, replication, network printers, servers, and tape backups. Resolved end user's hardware, software, and network related problems. Maintained inventory for NETC tagged equipment. CSR / Systems Administrator Ultimate Solutions Inc., Keesler AFB - Biloxi, MS May 2003 to May 2004 Provided end user support for over 100 AIS systems. Maintained documentation for work calls and provided reports to site Task Manager. Conducted Backup of network data. Installed, maintained and repaired network cables. Compiled and submitted reports as directed by the command. Added and removed workstations to the domain and assisted in other projects or tasks as directed. Provided data recovery and reconstruction as pertained to investigations of AIS misuse. Reported network status to Task Manager. System Administrator/Network Administrator/Installation JIL Information Systems - Pensacola, FL March 2000 to May 2003 Acted as System Administrator for a 30-station network. Designed networks to support Automated Electronic Classrooms. Determined the materials needed and in what quantities to support the installation. Installed, tested and certified horizontal cable plants in support of the network to EIA/TIA standards. Provided QA services upon completion of install. Researched new equipment for future installs. Conducted a site survey and provided detailed drawings upon completion of survey. Cryptologic Technician (Maintenance) (CTM) U.S. Navy January 1980 to January 2000 As a CTM for 20 years I have held various positions and performed a wide range of duties.  I have been trained on the repair and maintenance of a range of equipment from desktop computers to satellite communication systems to mini computers to UHF/VHF/HF/LF receivers.  I taught classes on equipment maintenance and operation and developed curriculum for the same course. I tracked the progress of the students individually and as a class, providing positive, constructive, or negative counseling when warranted.  Maintained an inventory of station equipment and provided reports to management.  I performed and tracked the preventative maintenance of over 500 pieces of equipment at various commands. Education Associate of Arts in Computer Science Pensacola State College - Pensacola, FL August 1986 to Present University of West Florida University of Maryland Skills Clustering (5 years), Information security (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), San (4 years), scripting (5 years), Security (10+ years), Storage area network (7 years), Unix (5 years), virtualization (2 years), Vmware (2 years), Windows server 2008 (9 years), Active Directory (5 years), System Administrator (10+ years), System Admin (10+ years), Redhat (5 years), Linux Administrator (10+ years), ScienceLogic (10+ years), Environmental Monitoring (10+ years), Red Hat (5 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ ce December 2010 to December 2021 Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) December 2010 to Present Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/alfg1hrllxxssnsu Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/oh-go-bcq9p3bpi9 Supervisory Skills: Interpersonal Skills — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to maintain productive team working relationships by identifying conflict and settling disputes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8sduhwzcgsub7hcw Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/piohvq46dytklxbx Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to prioritize and allocate time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bxa7ussqfpddtxge Email — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/3ph4vfes-1rlmq23 Technical Support — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wvoihd0vcanog7le Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS    • Analyzed, logs, tracks and resolved software/hardware matters of significance pertaining to networking connectivity issues, printer, servers, and applications to meet business needs.    • Evaluate information systems for compliance with Defense Information Security Agency (DISA) Security Technical Implementation Guideline (STIG) and review measures needed to bring systems into compliance.    • Good understanding of Storage Array Network (SAN) concepts and Linux systems, virtualization, and Failover Clustering.    • Performed troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose common system problems; documented system events to ensure continuous functioning. Recommended course of action and implemented as approved.    • Upgraded system software and hardware components as required to meet business needs. Ensured upgrades were occurring in accordance with established parameters.    • Administered 4 VMware vCenter installations hosting 30+ ESXi hosts and 300+ virtual machines.    • Ability to perform (advanced level) configuration, testing, and troubleshooting of Window servers, ESXi hosts, VMware services.    • Responsible for VMWare ESXi, vCenter, vMotion, Dynamic Resource scheduler (DRS) and High Available (HA) Configuration, vCLI and scripting and security hardening    • Administered complex operating systems such as Unix, Linux, Windows Server 2008, 2012 & 2016.    • Administered and maintained an installation of ScienceLogic's enterprise monitoring platform monitoring over 1000 servers and network devices.    • Installed, tested, upgraded and configured system files and services to enhance performance.    • Coordinated the installation of client department specific applications and systems. Determined appropriate method for installing applications and systems: resolved matters of significance and implemented corrective course of action as needed.    • Utilized standard corporate tools to record change and problem activities for tracking purposes.