Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - UCS Moncks Corner, SC Work Experience Systems Administrator UCS - Goose Creek, SC June 2018 to Present Client: US Navy - NIWAC - RDT&E Core Services  ? Create SCCM Packages.  ? Perform STIG checks on systems.  ? Reform SCAP scans of systems.  ? Administrator user accounts.    Accomplishments:  -While I would love to regale you with my exploits the duration of my employment and the fact I am still trying to achieve full network credentials makes this impossible. Windows SME Parsons - North Charleston, SC December 2018 to May 2019 Client: US Navy - NIWAC - DHA MID Infrastructure  ? Physically install network and system hardware to Data Center.  ? Configure server hardware for deployment.  ? Install and Configure ESXi on physical servers to be attached to vCenter.  ? Configure VMWare resources and assign vswitch settings.  ? Perform Citrix troubleshooting and administration.  ? Install and Configure Netscaler equipment.  ? Perform troubleshooting and remediation of user and server issues.  ? Perform various reporting and remediation tasks as assigned by management.  ? Inventory and maintain documentation pertaining to physical hardware in Data Center.  ? Use StigViewer to complete checklists and submit to CyberSecurity for validation.  ? Troubleshoot Group Policy and HBSS policy conflicts.  ? Administering Active Directory objects, containers, and accounts as required.    Accomplishments:  - Spearheaded configuration of new NetScaler.  - Re-Utilized existing equipment to create isolated ESXi environment/hardware.  - Perform inventory of Data Center equipment and completion of required  paperwork.  - Performed Citrix administration while Citrix administrator was on paternity  leave.  - Configured a vSphere development environment. Technical Analyst III (IA Tester) GEODESICX - North Charleston, SC January 2018 to December 2018 CLIENT: US NAVY - SPAWAR - TacMobile  ? Utilize DISA Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGS) to evaluate UNIX, Linux, and Windows Operating systems along with network devices, web servers and various GOTS and COTS applications.  ? Use SCAP, custom scripts, and manual checks to certify systems.  ? Prepare systems for scanning, modifying settings as necessary.  ? Perform Nessus and ACAS Scans of Windows, Linux, Cisco, and custom systems.  ? Perform testing for EVS and SIT events.  ? Use Vulnerator to generate and customize POA&Ms for each system assigned.  ? Troubleshoot and perform updates on IA assets.  ? Conduct Nessus scans along with managing plugin updates in Security Center.  ? Generation of POA&Ms and Security Center reports as required.  ? Interface with integration teams and provide vulnerability remediation solutions.  ? Document, publish, and track system accreditation efforts.  ? Provide support as needed in a dynamic environment.    Accomplishments:  - Successfully updated and reinstalled Nessus Client on Windows 10 assets.  - Devised a methodology to transfer results from VM to physical media that was  being done in a way that involved using assets rather than locally on machines.  - Expanded upon existing test script to increase amount of automated checks. Senior System Administrator BENNETT AEROSPACE - Goose Creek, SC April 2014 to January 2018 CLIENT: US ARMY - ARMY STRATEGIC LOGISTICS ACTIVITY CHARLESTON (ASLAC) CHARLESTON    ? Run Pre-Made and Custom scans of local network devices.  ? Analyze and establish strategies for IAVM remediation.  ? Create POA&M documentation as necessary.  ? Review IAVM bulletins and remediate via SCCM and GPO as they apply.  ? Plan, design, and implement mission-critical network infrastructures; manage the administration of network connectivity, data security platforms, user access, and data backup and recovery systems. Analyze, review, and enhance existing systems to increase performance, while adapting technology to new operational requirements.  ? Establish strategies and action plans to handle network security risk mitigation, ensuring information security and access are configured according to business needs.  ? Perform project management and lead technical roles for projects, managing all aspects of infrastructure development initiatives.  ? Collaborate with cross-functional business groups to gather technology requirements and translate operational needs into technical solutions.  ? Prepare Continuity of Operations Plans (COOP) to obtain DIACAP accreditation and Approval to Operate on the Army Enterprise Network.  ? Administer the SCCM 2012 environment to deploy updates and create custom updates.  ? Perform initial Cisco Switch configuration and port security maintenance.  ? Maintain and configure ongoing Backup functions using Symantec Backup Exec 15.  ? Configure and maintain a Windows Server 2012R2 environment.    Accomplishments:  - Assisted in successful completion of CCRI Inspection.  - Assisted in successful completion of RMF accreditation to achieve ATO.  - Successful upgrade of all on-site servers from Windows 2008 to Windows  2012R2.  - Upgraded and configuration of Cisco switches to more modern hardware.  - Successfully remediated multiple IAVA issues via SCCM on a mass scale.  - Successfully moved multiple SQL databases to one centralized database server.  - Installed and configured LMP print services on local print server.  - Actively involved in upgrade of SCCM infrastructure from SCCM 2017 to 2012.  - Built and customized all on-site PC images from Windows XP to Windows 10. Computer Support Specialist II VISTA INTL - Goose Creek, SC October 2008 to April 2013 CLIENT: US ARMY - ARMY STRATEGIC LOGISTICS ACTIVITY CHARLESTON (ASLAC) CHARLESTON    ? Provided technical support to approximately 500 users on local and remote networks, including remote support of shipboard assets at overseas locations and forward-operating military installations.  ? Conducted Help Desk functions via phone and onsite support; act as technical resources for normal and escalated support issues.  ? Delivered comprehensive technical expertise on secure (SIPRnet) and non-secure (NIPRnet) architectures, ensuring that systems operated and complied with stringent government standards and regulations.  ? Developed and facilitated an Information Assurance course for first-time users, including initial computer set up and delivering instructional material to promote effective technology management and use.  ? Configured operating systems and application software running on various hardware platforms, including installing and upgrading software on government systems to ensure proper system integration with existing business processes.    Accomplishments:  -Streamlined Disk Imaging to one Image vs multiple for multiple models.  -Responsible for early development and troubleshooting of early EMSNG system  on site.  -Developed standard and configuration for Toughbook's.  -Travelled to other sites, CONUS and OCONUS in support of mission objectives.  -Responsible for next level troubleshooting on extremely different issues.  -Responsible for removal of obsolete network equipment from switch cabinets. System Support Specialist/Junior Administrator PIGGLY WIGGLY CAROLINA CO - North Charleston, SC August 1998 to October 2008 Promoted from the retail environment to corporate operations, bring people and process management skills into delivering comprehensive technical support processes.  ? Performed physical replacements and connection of routers, and administered Wi-Fi access points and configuration of WinCE WYSE terminals.  ? Managed network administration functions, including user setup and rights assignments in Novell 5 and Windows 2000 Active Directory infrastructures.  ? Established and maintained PC images to expedite deployment of PCs throughout a user community of approximately 1,200 users.  ? Conducted initial user setup on PCs and provided phone and physical support throughout equipment implementation lifecycles.    Accomplishments:  -Nominal head of Corporate Tech Support team responsible for technician training.  -Instituted Disk Imaging reducing deployment times from days to hours.  -Initial technician responsible for deployment of eGreenbax equipment statewide to multiple merchant locations.  -Used existing fiber lines to replace copper between buildings to improve LAN  reliability.  -Backup AIX Administrator on warehouse DALLAS inventory system. Education High school or equivalent Skills CISCO, TCP, TCP/IP, REMEDY, SQL, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    ADMINISTRATIVE APPLICATIONS: HEAT Help Desk, REMEDY, Microsoft Office 97 - 2013, SCCM 2007/2012, Blackberry Administration Service  OPERATING SYSTEMS: Windows Server 2012R2/2008R2/2000/NT, Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Linux, AIX.  HARDWARE: Cisco Switches, Dell PCs/Laptops/Servers, HP PCs/Laptops, Panasonic Toughbook's  PROGRAMMING: Visual Basic Scripting, PowerShell  PROTOCOLS: TCP/IP  DATABASES: SQL  IA: eMass, DIACAP, SCAP, STIG Checker, CCRI accreditation, IAVA remediation.