Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Meyer Sound Laboratories Inc San Rafael, CA Highly skilled IT professional with proven analytical and leadership qualities. Expert and highly familiar with a wide variety of technology challenges and solutions including but not limited to infrastructure design, project management, team building, and exceptional user support. Work Experience Systems Administrator Meyer Sound Laboratories Inc April 2016 to Present • Provide all levels of Windows and Macintosh desktop support for 400 local and remote users.  • Manage Active Directory Users and Computers within Meyer Sound's global enterprise.  • Manage Linux and Windows servers in a VMware environment.  • Perform network and server implementations and troubleshooting.  • Specify and purchase computer hardware, software and services, deploy and track assets.  • Diagnose, repair, and upgrade network infrastructure throughout a multi-building campus.  • Write and maintain user guides and IT support documentation, train users on computer hardware and software.  • Assist users with installing and implementing new software and hardware in a fast-paced manufacturing  environment.  • Support local and remote offices and offsite VPN connectivity. IT Manager / System Administrator KTVU - San Jose, CA August 2013 to April 2016 Provided all levels of IT support for 200+ users at the top-rated television duopoly in the San Francisco Bay  Area - KTVU/Fox2 in Oakland and KICU/TV36 in San Jose.  • Provided a critical role in the migration of all network devices, servers, workstations, and user accounts to a new Active Directory domain due to the change in ownership of KTVU/KICU from Cox Media Group to  Fox Television Stations.  • Responsible for IT capital and operations budgets - recommended and purchased new hardware, software,  and services.  • Managed IT staff and outside contractors, evaluated performance and recommended candidates for hire.  • Specified, purchased and configured a new VMware cluster with shared storage for file and application  servers, migrated Hyper-V virtual machines and stand-alone servers into the new system, thus optimizing the IT infrastructure to consistently achieve high availability and performance as well as ease of management.  • Specified, purchased, installed and maintained Windows, Macintosh, and Linux hardware and software for all  departments, supported and trained users on system and application use.  • Worked closely with Engineering & Technical Services Department to install, upgrade and maintain mission- critical on-air and broadcast systems and EMC data storage.  • Set up and maintained enterprise antivirus and off-site tape backups for all file and production servers and workstations.  • Automated processes and generated reports using Windows PowerShell and Visual Basic scripts.  • Configured and maintained Cisco VOIP phone system.  • Managed accounts for all employee cell phones and MiFi hotspots.  • Compiled information and created monthly SOX reports. President Permagrin, LLC September 2009 to August 2013 • Produced and directed audio/video/multimedia projects.  • Designed, installed, managed, and operated network installations and Internet streaming services for trade  shows and other events throughout the San Francisco Bay Area.  • Managed the design and implementation of technology projects such as online databases, websites, and multimedia applications.  • Provided expert advice, troubleshooting, repair, and hardware/software solutions for Windows, Macintosh,  and Linux platforms.  • Installed and set up local area networks, WiFi, file servers, email servers, Internet connectivity,  firewalls/routers, backup systems, phone systems, etc.  • Managed a team of database/tools programmers, graphic designers, A/V editors, and technical support  specialists who worked on a contract basis. Director of Technology Ursa Minor Arts + Media January 2005 to September 2009 • Designed and built the technology infrastructure for an 8000 sq. ft. multimedia production facility.  • Specified, purchased, and installed all Ethernet, fiber-optic, and analog A/V cable, Windows/OSX/Linux  servers, Windows and Macintosh workstations, and networking equipment as well as video and audio  distribution systems.  • Provided IT support and network installation services to clients throughout the Bay Area.  • Managed a team of web designers, A/V professionals, and technical support specialists who were dispatched  to client job sites. President Moonlight Consulting July 1999 to January 2005 Provided expert advice, troubleshooting, repair, and hardware and software solutions for Windows,  Macintosh, and Linux platforms.  • Installed and set up local area networks, file servers, email servers, Internet connectivity, firewalls, routers,  tape backup systems, phone systems, etc.  • Managed a team of technical support specialists who worked on a contract basis and were dispatched to client job sites. Systems Engineer LucasArts Entertainment Company October 1990 to July 1999 Set up and administered a local area network for 300+ users in a fast-paced software production environment  at one of the top-rated video game companies in the world.  • Provided all levels of support and technical assistance to users on Windows, Macintosh, and SGI  workstations as well as audio/video production equipment.  • Set up and administered network backups of all Windows servers, Macintoshes, and SGI workstations.  • Built, repaired, and upgraded hardware and software on PCs and Macintoshes, and SGI workstations.  • Supervised and trained new technicians and support staff. Education Music, Physics University of Missouri - Columbia, MO Solar Technology Mississippi County College - Blytheville, AR Skills Adobe Premiere (6 years), Amplifiers (10+ years), Analog (10+ years), Analog/Digital (10+ years), Android (10+ years), Avaya (4 years), AWS (3 years), Cisco (10+ years), Citrix (3 years), Clients (10+ years), EMC (6 years), Hyper-V (2 years), IT support (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), networking (10+ years), PCs (10+ years), VMware (5 years), VOIP (6 years), VPN (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), System Admin Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Hardware:    • Windows Products (Servers, PCs, Tablets, etc.)  • Apple Products (Macintosh, iPads, iPhones, etc.)  • Android Phones, Tablets  • Enterprise Storage Systems (EMC, NetApp, HPE, etc.)  • Printers (HP, Ricoh, Xerox, Canon, Brother, etc.)  • Networking Systems (Cisco, Meraki, Netgear, etc.)  • Phone Systems (Cisco VOIP, Avaya, NEC, etc.)  • Analog/Digital Converters  • Video Distribution Amplifiers  • Video Camcorders  • Recording Studio Equipment (Microphones, Digital Recorders, etc.)  • Studio Lighting  • Sound Reinforcement Systems (P/A, Amplifiers, Audio Mixers, etc.)    Operating Systems:    • Windows 95, 98, XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10  • Windows NT, 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016  • Windows SBS 4, 2000, 2003, 2008, 2011  • Macintosh OS X, Sierra, High Sierra, Mojave  • Linux Ubuntu, Mint, Red Hat, Fedora    Software:    • Microsoft Office Suite  • Microsoft Office 365  • Microsoft Exchange (Versions 5.0 - 2016)  • Microsoft SQL Server  • Adobe Creative Cloud  • Video Editing Products (Adobe Premiere, Avid Media Composer, Final Cut Pro, etc.)  • Audio Products (ProTools, Logic, Audacity, etc.)  • Backup Products (Symantec, Veritas, Retrospect, etc.)  • Online Backup Services (AWS, BackBlaze, Carbonite, etc.)  • Web Conferencing (GoToMeeting, Zoom, Webex, TeamViewer, etc.)  • Remote Access Products (VPN, RDP, VNC, etc.)  • IT Support Ticketing Systems (ManageEngine, Jira, Zendesk, etc.)  • FTP Clients (WinSCP, SmartFTP, FileZilla, Fetch, Transmit, etc.)  • Cloud Products (AWS, DropBox, OneDrive, Google Apps, iCloud, etc.)  • Video Streaming Services (Livestream, UStream, etc.)  • Quicken / Quickbooks  • Virtualization Products (Citrix, VMware, Hyper-V, etc.)  • Filemaker Pro  • Anti-virus Products (Symantec, Trend Micro, McAfee, etc.)