Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Adaptix Solutions Group Jacksonville, FL Self-motivated with high energy, initiative, and focus with an emphasis on quality service. Consummate professional with superior communication skills able to easily adapt to challenges. Proficient with multitasking, time-management, and customer service. Always strives to give 100%.    PROFICIENCIES    • Microsoft Dynamics 365 Configuration and Administration • Microsoft Office 365 Administration  • Windows Server 2012 Administration • Windows 10  • Microsoft Azure Basic Administration • Web Development  • Microsoft Office • Certified in Adobe Photoshop Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Adaptix Solutions Group - Jacksonville, FL April 2017 to Present Responsible for administration of Windows server environment supporting 18 salespeople and engineers including servers (HP & Dell), storage devices (Buffalo) and network connections to support business applications. Sole administrator for organizations Dynamics 365 environment including customization and application integration. Responsible for network device (Cisco ASA) configuration and management. Participated in the planning and implementation of policies and procedures to improve the marketing and sales of Adaptix MSP/CSP products. Managed marketing programs and regular e-mail distributions to customers. Responsible for engaging vendor support and maintaining relationships with various vendors, especially Microsoft. Warehouse Worker hhgregg, Inc - Jacksonville, FL March 2016 to April 2017 Receive, store, and distribute material, and supplies throughout warehouse to sustain sales activities. Unload trucks, check in merchandise, reconcile purchase orders with sales orders, and distribute received inventory to designated sales areas. Reconciled purchase orders against goods received to confirm receipt and report defective products to suppliers. Facilitate inventory management and inform management of low inventory; record inventory counts in company computer systems. Generate reports documenting defective materials, questionable conditions, and quality benchmark results. Created and maintained safe working environment by maintaining work area and upholding safety regulations. Responsible for customer service for any product defects or warranty questions. Waiter IHOP - Orange Park, FL February 2015 to February 2016 Took orders from customers and served food, drinks and deserts. Maintained 100 percent accuracy on all orders placed during a one-year period. Waited on 10 tables simultaneously on a daily basis. Prepared bill/receipts and collected payment from customers. Clean tables and ensure that they are bussed appropriately. Kitchen Staff Zaxby's - Orange Park, FL May 2014 to December 2014 Maintained high standards of customer service during high-volume, fast-paced operations. Communicated clearly and positively with coworkers and management. Mastered point-of-service (POS) computer system for automated order taking. Followed procedures for safe food preparation, assembly, and presentation. Education A.S. in Computer Systems Networking in Computer Systems Florida State College at Jacksonville - Jacksonville, FL 2015 to 2018 Ridgeview High School - Orange Park, FL 2010 to 2014 Skills System Admin, System Administrator