Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II Cumming, GA Conscientious messaging professional with twelve years experience and proven abilities in Microsoft Exchange/Outlook customer support, administration, deployment, troubleshooting, and project management. Seeking additional opportunities to build on past experience, migrating to Office 365, implementing and maintaining dozens of Exchange servers supporting 1000's of users on a multinational scale, administration of; Exchange, EOP, TeamsSkype for Business, Lotus Notes/Domino development and administration, and Proofpoint implementation/Administration. Work Experience Systems Administrator II Cotiviti Holdings, Inc - Atlanta, GA June 2019 to June 2019 Recovery Audit firm)    • Managed and supported the enterprise collaboration environment which includes Exchange 2010/2016/Exchange Online (Office 365), Proofpoint mail gateway, Lotus Notes, and MS Teams/Skype, all in a virtual clustered and high availability configuration  • ITIL using Service Now  • Supported other enterprise supporting applications including: Office 365, Microsoft EOP, Google Apps (spam filtering), Barracuda, VMWare, Zix secure mail gateway, and other Enterprise applications  • Patched of all applications as required and appropriate to ensure compliancy with security and business objectives  • Provided 2nd level support and assistance to Service Desk  • IT business processes including change management, configuration management, and disaster recovery and business continuity  • Disaster Recovery/Business Continuity planning and testing. Activities to include actual live fail over and fall back exercises  • Monitored systems performance and availability and make enhancements as needed  • Provided advanced support and direction for the integration of 3rd party systems or applications required to support the business  • Documented processes and procedures  • Created and maintained operational run books including visual system designs Sr, Staff IT Specialist Arris Group - Suwanee, GA August 2008 to March 2016 Telecommunications Manufacturer)    • Senior level member of the messaging group: collaborated with messaging group and other IT groups to accomplish tasks and projects  • Managed and maintained Lync servers and dozens of Exchange servers based throughout the US serving locations worldwide  • Part of Team to Design Exchange environment: Migrated locations worldwide from IBM Domino/Notes to MS Exchange 2007 and IBM Sametime to MS Lync.  • Analyzed and monitored email and performed daily mail flow problem solving  • Interacted with the legal department to search and provide eDiscovery data needed for legal matters using CommVault Simpana  • Researched and created corporate policies  • Supported helpdesk with level 2 and 3 issues and requests on mail, lync, and various other  • Implemented, maintained, and primary contact for Proofpoint mail gateway (SMTP relay)  • Maintained Lotus Domino and databases Sr Messaging Manager Arris Group, Inc - Suwanee, GA June 2004 to August 2008 Telecommunications Manufacturer)    • Managed the Lotus Notes Messaging group with three direct reports.  • Configured and maintain 48 Lotus Domino Servers based in the US, China, Netherlands, Japan, and Spain.  • Clustered Domino servers at all main locations  • Migrated three locations from Exchange 2003 to Domino/Notes  • Orchestrated and Implemented several major projects every year  • Implemented and maintained Blackberry Enterprise Server and Moto Good Server  • Exchange 2007 implementation with activsync and clustering  • Converted from Rightfax to Extracomm Extrafax  • Facilitated new Domino location in China on site  • Manage three Ironmail SMTP relay appliances  • Implemented Waterford Technologies Archiving, Reporting, and Discovery Software with MS SQL integration connecting to Domino Lotus Notes/Domino Administrator/Developer /Project Manager Arris Group, Inc - Duluth, GA October 1997 to June 2004 Telecommunications Manufacturer)    • Develop and maintain over 50 Lotus Notes databases on servers based in the US, Netherlands, Japan, and Spain.  • Major Database accomplishments include: Expense Report Application with workflow and Peoplesoft/Oracle integration and HelpDesk  • Blackberry Enterprise Server implementation and maintenance  • Treo 600 rollout with mNotes: mail, calendar, memo sync  • Setup and maintain Lotus Sametime servers and Quickplace server  • Setup Lotus iNotes (web client) and iNotes for Outlook  • Responsible for overseeing administration of 36 Lotus Notes servers located in Boston, Atlanta, Denver, San Jose, Tokyo, Japan, Cork, Ireland, Amsterdam, Holland, and Barcelona, Spain.  • Responsible for research and implementation of new Lotus Notes compatible products such as RightFax, Domino.Doc, Learning Space, Notrix, and Lotus Enterprise Integrator.  • Manage database projects for myself and two other developers.  • Implementation of RightFax server using DID and loop lines.  • Responsible for migration from R4.6 to R5 & R5 to R6 & R6 to 6.5. Systems Administrator Arris Group, Inc - Opelika, AL January 1996 to October 1997 Telecommunications Manufacturer)    • Major involvement in a 3-month project on a data center move from Opelika, Alabama to El Paso, TX and Juarez, Mexico.  • Reported to Division COO.  • Managed and maintained 60 user Novell network connected to a WAN (IPX & TCPIP)  • Upgraded, modified, and maintained Lotus Notes on a Windows NT server platform.  • Maintained AT&T Merlin Telephone System complete with 800 numbers & DID.  • Managed UNIX server and SGI workstations.  • Built and installed computers; trained end users; handled troubleshooting and repair of hardware and software problems.  • Developed Microsoft Access application to manage employee training globally. Consultant/Network Technician MicroTech Computer Center - Auburn, AL January 1995 to January 1996 Consulting and computer related sales)    • Built Microsoft Access databases using Access Basic. Some programs developed: Customer look-up list and accounts receivable program; Quoting program for a manufacturer, with reports; Membership management; Modified surveying software.  • Setup and maintained Novell networks.  • Analyzed and installed hardware and software to meet client needs. Diagnosed and repaired computers. Programmer Grand Teton Lodge Company - Moran, WY June 1994 to October 1994 a CSX Resort)    • Assisted MIS Director in development of new systems and analyzed and updated existing systems as needed. Performed maintenance of existing RPG/400 programs.  • Programmed database using Microsoft Access, (i.e., Telephone wiring schematics and Phone extensions).  • Compiled user manuals and MIS policy and procedure manuals. Prepared program and operation documentation. Education BS in Management Information Systems Auburn University - Auburn, AL March 1994 Skills Dns, Exchange, Smtp, Ssl, Vmware, Sql server, Sql, Rightfax, Quickplace, Motorola, R2, Hyper-v, Sharepoint, Ios, Symantec, Excel, Outlook, Word, Windows 8, Office 365 (2 years), Proofpoint (3 years) Additional Information Software/Knowledge:  Apple: iOS, Mac OSX 10.5-11  CommVault Simpana - archiving and eDiscovery  Microsoft: Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows NT, Windows 8/10, Access, Excel, Word, SQL server, Exchange 2007, Exchange 2010, Exchange 2016, Office 365, Outlook 2007/2011 (mac)/2010/2013/2016, Sharepoint 2010, Hyper-V, Lync 2010-2013, Skype for Business  IBM Lotus: Notes 4.5/4.6/5.0/R6.x/R7.x/8.x, EasySync, LEI, Sametime 7.x/8.1 Server, Quickplace Server, iNotes, and iNotes for Outlook  Other: Novell Network 3.x, 4.x, 5, RightFax, Percussion Notrix & Powerflow, Motorola Good Server, Extracomm Extrafax Server, Ironmail (Symantec Mail Gateway) 6.x, MailMeter Archive & Discovery, BISCOM Delivery Server; SMTP, SPF records, MX records, DKIM, SSL, TLS, Proofpoint Protection Server, VMware ESX, Linux (very limited), DNS