Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Innovyze Ridgefield, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Innovyze - Portland, OR January 2018 to Present - Utilize spiceworks for system management, tickets, projects and KB's.  - Manage network infrastructure through Cisco meraki devices and cloud.  - Inventory tracking via AD powershell scripts and spreadsheets.  - Organization and authorization for software, hardware and services through proper channels.  - Email, device, server back up and archiving.  - Emergency response to all issues on and off hours.  - On and off site maintenance. Systems Administrator Tier 2 Pavelcomm August 2015 to December 2017 • MSP for multiple I.T. clients in manufacturing, medical, rehab, retail, non-profit and restaurant industry.  • On-site support, training, improvement planning and project implementation.  • Preventative maintenance for work stations and servers.  • Network management.  • Backup and restoration.  • Project management and roll out for clients. Technical Support 3 DAT Solutions February 2014 to August 2015 • Billing and account management.  • Chat, e-mail, phone and remote support.  • Trained and managed national and regular accounts.  • Training customers on logistics and transportation management software.  • Training in NOC/help-desk environment.  • Educating customers on Windows 7, 8, XP, Vista software and networking. Billing Specialist Stream, Technical July 2011 to February 2014 • Support to Xbox and games for Windows Live.  • Remote access into computers for networking/software/hardware issues.  • Quickly and effectively solve customer challenges.  • Maintain quality control/satisfaction records, constantly seeking new ways to improve customer service.  • Traveled and trained new hires in Oregon and Iowa.  • Managed accounts for billing and inputted data on issues associated with computers or Xbox.  • Senior support help for other customer support agents. Education not completed in Computer Science Portland Community College September 2009 to September 2011 Skills • Knowledge of active directory. • Knowledge of networking. • Knowledge off-site and on premise exchange servers. • Knowledge of Office 365. • Knowledge of group policy. • Knowledge of Windows Server Small Business, 2003, 2008, 2008r2, 2012 and 2012R2. • Knowledge of remote desktop servers and Thin clients. • Knowledge of Kixtart scripts and login processes. • Knowledge of security and distribution groups. • Knowledge of group policy. • Knowledge of patch paneling, switches and routers. • Knowledge of Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10. • Knowledge of Mac OS. • Knowledge of Android and IOS. • Knowledge of Tigerpaw CRM. • Knowledge of Labtech RMM. • Knowledge of Screen Connect, Join.me and Team Viewer. • Knowledge backup solutions such Veeam, Barracuda and Intronis. • Knowledge of Copiers. • Knowledge of VPN setup. • Experience in on-site emergency troubleshooting. (8 years), Vmware, Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Cisco merkai (2 years), SCCM Awards Most positive 2018 innovyze 2018-12 Awarded for the most improved employee with keeping positive attitude. Elected by CEO, VP's and manager.