Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - COMERICA BANK CORP Sterling Heights, MI Driven IT professional with upwards of six years of professional experience in the infrastructure field. Seeking an opportunity in an organization where my record of professionalism, reliability, and creativity may be of strength to the company's evolution, as well as my own. Work Experience Systems Administrator COMERICA BANK CORP - Auburn Hills, MI December 2018 to Present • Monitor performance and maintain systems according to requirements  • Troubleshoot issues and outages  • Ensure security through access controls, backups and firewalls  • Upgrade systems with new releases and models  • Install and configure software and hardware  • Manage network servers and technology tools  • Set up accounts and workstations  • Experience with databases, networks (LAN, WAN)  • Quickly arrange repair for hardware in occasion of hardware failure  • Update system as soon as new version of OS and application software comes out  • Implement the policies for the use of the computer system and network  • Monitored and updated user groups and permissions, using Active Directory  • Implemented more frequent backups to increase environment security  • Trained new employees on software and company procedures  • Created online documentation to help employees resolve day to day issues  • Worked with employees to resolve "unsolvable" support requests Jr. Systems Administrator COMERICA BANK CORP - Auburn Hills, MI December 2017 to November 2018 • Administration of both on premise and cloud services, including Active Directory and G Suite  • Troubleshoot end user hardware and software, including Mac and PC laptops, and accompanying accessories through the use of our internal helpdesk system  • Manage internal services running on Windows and Linux in multiple locations  • Install, configure, and optimize the production network, including switch and firewall configuration, VPN, and wireless networks  • Managed daily activities to include user support and system administration tasks  • Discover, evaluate, and integrate new solutions that are the best fit for the company and its users  • Assist with asset tracking and management  • Password and identity management  • Completed tickets that involved troubleshooting equipment hardware issues  • Provided timely tier-II support and resolved tickets related to hardware, software, and printers HELPDESK ANALYST II STEFANINI IT SOLUTIONS - Southfield, MI July 2016 to December 2016 • Contributed to creation of IT related instructional documents.  • Managed asset transfers and disposal documentation.  • Handled escalated issues as well as ensured customer satisfaction.  • Coordinated with engineers and management.  • Assisted with executives when necessary.  • Assisted Help Desk Analyst I's with questions.  • Trained new hire Help Desk Analyst. HELPDESK ANALYST I STEFANINI IT SOLUTIONS - Southfield, MI January 2015 to June 2015 • Created and managed AD accounts of active/disabled users.  • Performed installation, configuration, and ongoing upgrades of desktop, and laptop computers.  • Setup and administered company specific applications for daily operations.  • Provide support to trouble tickets on multiple platforms. (Phone, Email, Skype, and in-person)  • Reset/ Unlock passwords & accounts on Active Directory. SERVICE DESK, WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY - Detroit, MI June 2014 to December 2014 • Performed trouble-shooting to diagnose software and hardware issues.  • Identified, located, resolved, and repaired problems within scope of authority.  • Assisted with the phone queue at high traffic times as necessary.  • Assigned daily tasks by Service Desk Technicians.  • Escalate issues to supervisor as necessary, and follow up to ensure a timely resolution.  • Gained valuable experience using desktop and server-management software such as Manage Engine and VMWare. Education Bachelors of Science in Information Systems Management Wayne State University Skills Active directory, Cisco, Lan/wan, Vmware, Vpn, Noc, Remedy, Rsa, Tokens, Cti, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Jira, Mainframe, Java, Ms office, Security, Imaging, Lan Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Ticketing systems: Remedy, JIRA,  Familiar Software's: VMWare, Oracle  Systems Installation, configuration & Upgrading  LAN/WAN/NOC Administration    TECHNOLOGY EXPERIENCE  Ticketing Systems: Service Now, JIRA, Remedy  Applications:  Active Directory Extended Account Analysis MS Office Suite Skype  Adobe IBM Security Identity Manager Nuance SQL Server Reporting  Cisco Jabber Java Remote Assistance Support VPN  CTI Toolkit Desktop Agent Mainframe RSA tokens Workstation Imaging Tool