Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Alexandria, VA * US Citizen  * Security+ Certification  * Public Trust Clearance    A computer technician with more than 9 years' experience in Help Desk and Active Directory Environment, routers/switches and general computer troubleshooting. Provides end-user software troubleshooting and support to users (clients). Background includes hands-on experience with multiplatform maintenance of desktop and universal laptop computers and customized applications or systems. LAN/WAN environments, installation of routers, internet troubleshooting, hardware and software installation, upgrading, general computer troubleshooting, removal of virus (malware, spyware, worms etc.), and unwanted pop ups. Have good experience in teleworks, hard drive wiping and degaussing. Demonstrate record of success in troubleshooting computers, increasing efficiency, and optimizing the access and utilization of shared information. Specialist in extending technology services from corporate headquarters to field operations. Professionally certified in a wide range of computer troubleshooting. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator PDC - Washington, DC January 2011 to Present Duties:  • Performs support services. Provides phone support in compliance with established policies and procedures - Service Level Agreement (SLA).  • Maintains the company's computers, back-end services, desktop support etc.  • Performed regular backup, maintenance, and archival of user data.  • Restorations, documentation, and offsite transfers. Consulted, set-up, and maintained small business Windows LANs.  • Configured and integrated Wireless Router, and other LAN network protocols in a LAN/WAN environment. Computer Technician 22nd Century Technologies, Inc - Alexandria, VA November 2017 to October 2018 Duties:  • Handles Teleworks.  • Performs hard drives wiping and degaussing.  • Performs IT Project refreshment.  • Printer troubleshooting CNA Sunrise - Alexandria, VA July 2014 to October 2017 Duties:  • Responsible for POC  • Assist in daily activities IT Technician Hans TV Electronics - Alexandria, VA February 2012 to May 2014 Duties:  • Handle Active Directory, performed regular backup, maintenance, and archival of user data. Performed data backups, restorations, documentation, and offsite transfers. Consulted, set-up, and maintained small business Windows LANs.  • Provides phone support in compliance with established policies and procedures -Service Level Agreement (SLA).  • Configured and integrated Wireless Router, and other LAN network protocols in a LAN/WAN environment. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Maryland University College January 2017 to Present A.S. in Information Technology in Information Technology Northern Virginia Community College - Alexandria, VA 2017 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, • Proficiency in Microsoft Office suite • Wide spectrum knowledge in Windows 7, 8, and 10 environments • Ability to use Remedy IT Service Management Suite • Ability to diagnose computers remotely • Experience in Teleworks and Disk Degaussing (8 years), System Admin Certifications/Licenses Security+ April 2019 to April 2022 Additional Information Skills    • Proficiency in Microsoft Office suite  • Wide spectrum knowledge in Windows 7, 8, and 10 environments  • Ability to use Remedy IT Service Management Suite  • Ability to diagnose computers remotely  • Experience in Teleworks and Disk Degaussing    Leadership Skills    • Motivation  • Delegating  • Positivity  • Trustworthiness  • Creativity  • Feedback  • Responsibility