Systems Administrator III <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> III Systems Administrator III - Arkansas Blue Cross and Blue Shield Bryant, AR Work Experience Systems Administrator III Arkansas Blue Cross and Blue Shield - Little Rock, AR December 2006 to Present Health Insurance Provider  ? Deployed and managed internal PKI using AD CS, processing over 2000 requests per year  ? Managed deployment and operation of AD Federation Services environment for SAML 2.0 based single sign-on, saving over $80,000 versus third-party solutions  ? Led deployment and management of McAfee EPO and endpoint protection for 800 servers  ? Developed processes for ServiceNow clones and upgrades reducing downtime by over 50%  ? Trained other IT and IS employees in PKI  ? Served as SME during design and deployment of two-factor authentication (Smartcards)  ? Identified a zero-day malware attack within 2 hours, and remediation steps within one day  ? Led design and deployment of MOVEit managed secure file transfer solution to meet regulatory requirements Information Systems Security NCO United States Army Reserve - Little Rock, AR April 2004 to June 2011 90th Sustainment Brigade  ? Filled the role of Network Engineer (Warrant Officer position) as a Staff Sergeant  ? Provided support for VSAT (satellite) and CAISI (secure wireless) systems to 5 units across 3 locations in Iraq  ? Managed and Led 9 to 12 military personnel and 4 civilian contractors as NCOIC of Combat Service Support Automation Management Office (CSSAMO)  ? Developed and led monthly training classes in soldier skills, IT skills, and physical fitness  ? Coordinated asset inventory of over $500,000 of battalion equipment before deployment Systems Analyst The Watkins Company - Mabelvale, AR January 2000 to November 2004 Advertising and Printing Company  ? Provided Support for over 50 desktops and servers, including MacOS, OS X, and Windows  ? Responsible for coordination of printer and monitor color values for over 15 computers, 4 printers, and 2 printing presses  ? Identified a networking issue that had caused a 90% slowdown to company internet access  ? Responsible for support of 4 clients, including on-site troubleshooting and repair Medical NCOIC 489th Combat Engineer Battalion - Little Rock, AR January 1998 to March 2004 Wrote battalion Standard Operating Procedure for mass casualty events  ? Led and managed 10 to 12 personnel in medical operations  ? Section consistently received "Exceeds Standards" classification on battalion evaluations    Medical Specialist  Promoted to Corporal/NCOIC of the Medical Section  ? Provided medical support and advice to a company element of approximately 150 soldiers  ? Taught over 20 classes on first aid, CPR, environmental injuries, and other medical topics Education BS in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Phoenix 2004 AAS in Computer Systems Technology in Computer Systems Technology Arkansas State University 2000 Skills Information security, Active directory, Dns, Server administration, Security, Ldap, Systems administration, C++, Scripting, Vbscript, Linux, Red hat, Java, Software troubleshooting, Mac, Mac os, Training Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qgqiprfca7ntijbt Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/3neypdzepwzojhri Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ge7rxb9c6duacnsw Project Management Skills: Time Management — Expert August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vo-73joujwnhu6no Supervisory Skills: Interpersonal Skills — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to maintain productive team working relationships by identifying conflict and settling disputes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lioiejjgorq0kutv Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xnu3zdfweqn5agcf Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nvkfwrnqrgrakhy9 Research — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to follow protocols, interpret statistics and graphs, identify errors, and choose research methodology. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/owlnwjdhaovkwscp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS AND TECHNOLOGIES    Systems Administration: Windows Servers, Red Hat Linux, Mac OS, OS X, physical and virtualized systems, PowerShell scripting, hardware and software troubleshooting  Information Security: McAfee EPO, McAfee VirusScan Enterprise, McAfee VSES, McAfee Endpoint Protection, IBM Q-Radar and WinCollect, Microsoft Web Application Proxy, Thycotic Group Management Server  Active Directory: AD DS, AD Certification Services, AD Federation Services, DNS, LDAP  Other Software: ServiceNow platform and MID server administration, xPressions Enterprise Edition, Flexera Technopedia and Normalize, MOVEit Automation and Transfer  Programming: Basic familiarity with C++, Java, and VBScript  Leadership: Personnel and equipment management, training development and presentation