Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Vanderbilt University Medical Center IT Denver, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Vanderbilt University Medical Center IT - Nashville, TN September 2018 to Present Business Intelligence  • Built data warehouse that imported data from over fifteen sources. Queried with SQL, cleaned data, and imported into PowerBI. Published dashboard for entire organization and briefed senior  management about trends and outliers. It is currently being used by management to track server and user metrics.  Administration  • Responsible for configuring, monitoring and maintaining the hardware, software, and infrastructure of over 2,200 Windows Servers.  Automation  • Published PowerShell cmdlets using C# to automate/monitor daily tasks, updates, performance, and network configuration. Completely automated monthly patching of every server. Created modules to connect to company's CMDB through rest API and tested with Pester. Research Fellow Rhodes College - Memphis, TN January 2017 to May 2018 Research Fellowship Award  • Simulating a Rumor: Researched sociological, evolutionary, and mathematical concepts to program algorithms that simulate individual human interactions within an agent-based model. Found a connection between rumors and DNA mutation to model the diffusion and evolution of information. Created statistical models and visualizations to predict how and why a rumor spreads. Systems Administrator Intern Foundations Recovery Network - Brentwood, TN May 2016 to August 2016 Hardware and Software Maintenance  • Installed on-site workstations, resolved hardware issues, deployed system images and patched network panels to restore network outages.  Meta Data  • Cleaned and visualized ticket data in Excel. Highlighted problem areas across nation-wide facilities. Presented conclusions to management and recommended a course of action for each area. Application Management Intern Vanderbilt Health IT - Nashville, TN May 2015 to August 2015 Data Collection  • Shadowed under various branches of Health IT to talk about time sinks and opportunities to improve workflows. Presented issues and built solutions through automation, customer surveys, and data analysis.  Programming  • Wrote code to organize every surgical record from radiology's database, identify and correct outliers, and create updated records for each patient. Education Bachelors of Science in Mathematics and Computer Science Rhodes College - Memphis, TN August 2014 to May 2018 High school or equivalent Franklin High School - Franklin, TN August 2010 to May 2014 Skills C#, C++, Git, Python, Tableau, TSQL, Powershell, R, PowerBI, Excel, Mathematica, Git, Statistics, Calculus, Linear Algebra, Machine Learning Links http://github.com/BrandoBates Additional Information Technical Skills  • Programming: Python, C, C++, C#, TSQL, PowerShell, R, PowerBI, Tableau, Excel, Mathematica, Git  • Mathematics: Statistics, Probability Theory, Agent-Based Modeling with Biological Applications, Differential  • Equations, Linear Algebra, Calculus 1-3, Advanced Mathematics for Proof and Logic Concepts, Automata Theory    Machine Learning and Data Analysis Projects  • (Python) 10-fold cross validation of the following models that predict the type of flower given attribute data: Logistic Regression, Linear Discriminant Analysis, K-Nearest Neighbors, Classification and Regression Trees, Gaussian Naive Bayes, and Support Vector Machines.  • (Python) Given IMDB user data, list top 10 movies among users and use item-item collaborative filtering to recommend movies to each user based on similar movies.  • (R) Tests whether a player scores better at home than away with 95\% confidence. Runs an exploratory analysis and 2 sample t test on a player's average points per game and compares home v away games.