Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Miami, FL http://sauni-rembert.site123.me/ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Office sense - Miami, FL April 2019 to August 2019 • Manage service provider for several small and mid sized business  • It administration for answering service  • VOIP and SIP Project management  • Helpdesk management  • Ticketing system management  • Administration of Domain Controller, OU’s and users.  • Hyper-v server management. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Felman Trading and Optima Management August 2015 to April 2019 •Administration of Domain controllers, OU’s and users.  •Manage database server installations, maintenance, performance monitoring and tuning activities  •Administration of VMware Virtualization in VCenter server 6.0 for IIS and application servers  •Administration of Active Directory Roles Features and Services including DFS, DNS, GPO and RAS   •Security systems installation and management including antivirus and video monitoring software  •Management of video conferencing and presentation software and equipment  •Created and implemented a NETWORK DESIGN plan for backups using RAID Array 10 and iSCSI SANs  •Managed Successful Network Improvement Project and data migration projects, conversions and product upgrades.  •Management, repair and connection of POS systems. IT SYSTEMS SUPPORT ADMINISTRATOR FELMAN TRADING & OPTIMA MANAGEMENT - Miami, FL January 2013 to August 2015 • Administration of Domain controllers, OU's and users.  • Manage database server installations, maintenance, performance monitoring and tuning activities  • Administration of VMware Virtualization in VCenter server 6.0 for IIS and application servers  • Administration of Active Directory Roles Features and Services including DFS, DNS, GPO and RAS  • Security systems installation and management including antivirus and video monitoring software  • Management of video conferencing and presentation software and equipment  • Created and implemented a NETWORK DESIGN plan for backups using RAID Array 10 and iSCSI SANs  • Managed Successful Network Improvement Project and data migration projects, conversions and product upgrades.  • Management, repair and connection of POS systems.    12/11-01/13CONTRACTED NETWORK DESIGN CONSULTANT: DOMAIN MILLWORK MIAMI, FL.  • Created and executed a NETWORK reconfiguration, utilizing OSPF and EIRP for dynamic routing.  • Created a database, utilizing three relational tables, two stored procedures, one view, on trigger and scripts for five queries.  • Created a database, utilizing SQL scripts to perform all the tasks HELP DESK TECHNICIAN ARISE - Miami, FL August 2008 to December 2011 • Consistently surpassed call quality benchmarks, handling a 45 per day call volume with near 90% first-call resolution ratio  • Identify, troubleshoot and close various software, hardware and network tickets.  • Follow the OSI model for determination of the failure level for issues. FAMILY CASE MANAGER KIDS HOPE UNITED - Miami, FL August 2006 to August 2008 Education Master's in Information Technology/ Project Management AMERICAN INTERCONTINENTAL UNIVERSITY August 2012 Bachelor of Science in Interdisciplinary Social Science in Interdisciplinary Social Science FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY December 2000 Skills Cisco, Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory, Networking, Mcse, Windows, Technical Support, Windows 7, Customer Service, System Admin, Linux Links https://sauni-rembert.site123.me Certifications/Licenses MSCA August 2012 Microsoft Certified Solution Associate Network+ September 2012 CompTiA Network+ certification Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qrlf2lk0nt8b3-wm Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jw-akmw9svslq641 Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ykngcw-zttpz7tup Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/w-hgqziqsxurbowd Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8pfdz7b-ltmvjasg Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v0j1ykmu-zvnaskk Problem Solving — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zop-ylgcbpcgjra2 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Knowledge of Programming Languages including Visual Basic, Java, and SQL  • Experience Creating and Updating Databases using SQL and Access  • Knowledge of OS including, Windows, MAC, Linux, and Citrix  • Experience in Virtualization design and management via Hyper-v, VMware and VMsphere  • Experience in Network Infrastructure design, development, maintenance, and troubleshooting  • Experience in management of ERP systems, Cisco Devices and other network devices, and VOIP  • Experience in management of Microsoft Products Active Directory, Exchange, IIS and SharePoint