Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Pahrump, NV Hardworking system/network administrator proficient in hardware, software and security planning. Able to select, install, configure and manage components. Flexible schedule and adaptable approach. Work Experience Systems Administrator The Orange Crew - Anaheim, CA February 2017 to Present • Maintained flexible schedule and responded to after-hours and weekend emergencies.  • Standardized job tasks and trained junior team members on industry best practices and standards.  • Analyzed complex project server issues and worked on large enterprise and business-critical applications.  • Implemented, developed and tested installation and update of file servers, print servers and application servers in all departments.  • Made recommendations regarding information technology infrastructure overhauls.  • Led server infrastructure development, quality assurance, staging and production systems.  • Managed the system maintenance team to ensure proper backups are taken and security/AV patches are deployed  • Designed, developed and deployed several IP phone systems running on various technologies. Systems Engineer Effortless Office - Las Vegas, NV August 2015 to February 2017 • Setup and manage VMware cloud desktops Manage active directory and Exchange accounts Setup and manage Windows and Linux servers.  • Installed, configured, tested and maintained operating systems, application software and system management tools.  • Monitored and tested application performance to identify potential bottlenecks, develop solutions, and collaborate with developers on solution implementation.  • Worked closely with customers, internal staff and other stakeholders to determine planning, implementation and integration of system-oriented projects.  • Resolved issues related to operational components for Local Area Networks, Wide Area Networks and voice systems.  • Provided 2nd and 3rd level technical support and troubleshooting to internal and external clients. Lead Tech Mastertech Computers - Pahrump, NV September 2010 to August 2015 • Troubleshoot and repair PC's, Macs, smartphones, and tablets.  • Maintained and administered company network of 100+ devices.  • Service tech for local businesses (troubleshoot and administer computers and networks with as many as 500+ devices).  • Talk with customers to determine their need and offer a solution based on that need.  • Order new equipment and parts as needed.  • Run reports, track sales, open and close registers.  • Offer tech support to customers.  • Design and create websites to fit customer needs.  • Varied from simple pages to full e-commerce sites. Electronics Engineer Agpro - Paris, TX July 2005 to July 2010 Setup and maintain network of 113 devices  * Design, build, and implement devices to automate dairies  * Design, update, and maintain company and sister companies websites  * Make department schedules  * Check all product for quality control  * Design, create, and maintain company websites. Education Master's in Information Technology Western Governors University June 2018 to Present Bachelor's in Information Technology Great Basin College - Pahrump, NV 2011 to January 2015 Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified Network+ MCSA