Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> South Plainfield, NJ Enthusiastic infrastructure Systems Administrator specializing in deploying, monitoring, and troubleshooting Windows servers/clients and Active Directory environments. Experience scripting with PowerShell and working with various hardware, storage, and virtualization technologies. Work Experience Systems Administrator April 2018 to Present • Performed DRaaS migration from VMware vCloud Air to OVH DRaaS environment.  • Led rebuild of presentation/streaming setup; livestreamed and recorded company events.  • Wrote bash script to automatically convert PowerPoint slides to a GIF to host on a webpage, which was used as signage on conference room televisions.  • Managed OwnCloud implementation for sharing files with external recipients.  • Responsible for information security roadmap.  • Managed contracts for various vendors and contracts.  • Member of Office 365 migration planning team, testing and preparing for upcoming migration.  • Configured Polycom phones for Skype for Business integration in addition to ShoreTel system.  • Wrote majority of Infrastructure team communications and blog posts.  • Authored information security blog posts for end user education on a variety of topics. Applegate - Bridgewater, NJ August 2015 to Present Systems Administrator August 2015 to April 2018 • Utilized PowerShell to script automation of tasks and reports for data collection, Active Directory operations, VMware operations, Exchange 2013 operations.  • Implemented Nagios as a network and server monitoring solution.  • Owned two-factor authentication project: configuration, testing, training end users, and rollout.  • Partnered with parent-company info security team on training end users in phishing awareness.  • Led and coordinated Exchange 2013 archive mailbox rollout.  • Involved in IT security audits, making recommendations to management for proposed changes.  • Managed Dell SonicWall firewall and VPN, and subsequent migration to Palo Alto hardware.  • Configured ShoreTel VoIP phones and softphones.  • Utilized Barracuda Web Filter and Web Application Firewall to manage network traffic.  • Worked on file server migration from Windows 2003 server to DFS namespace on EMC VNXe.  • Performed Tier II/III support for end-user issues. Coach Coach, Inc - New York, NY April 2014 to August 2015 Junior Systems Engineer  • Wrote numerous PowerShell scripts for automating tasks such as data collection, Active Directory operations, Microsoft cluster operations, VMware operations.  • Built GUI in PowerShell to allow Help Desk to enable/disable Exchange Hub Transport rules.  • Evaluated and configured eggPlant scripting and testing environment to automate scheduled and one-click tests for business applications, drastically reducing the time to test functionality.  • Configured Cisco VoIP phones and call routing in Call Manager.  • Led file server migration project from Windows Server 2003 cluster to 2012 R2 file cluster.  • Scheduled scripts in JAMS Scheduler for task automation.  • Supported 100 physical servers and virtual hosts, 500 virtual machines built on Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2008 R2, and 2012 R2.  • Assisted in planning, testing, and implementation of SAN storage migration from EMC VNX to EMC VMAX/VPLEX configuration for entire virtual environment.  • Implemented Mercurial script repository for version control and managing scripts as a department. IT Consultant Chicago, IL August 2012 to February 2014 * Saved company man-hours by planning/configuring Software Deployment GPO in Active Directory to deploy/maintain software for users, which reduces software installation time by 75%.  * Responsible for physical systems build-out of new data center in Chicago.  * Support 400+ physical servers and virtual hosts, 700+ virtual machines.  * Configure physical and virtual servers as Microsoft Failover Clusters, File and Print servers, Active Directory Domain Controllers, IIS Web servers, SQL servers, DNS/DHCP servers.  * Basic configuration of CentOS servers (create local accounts, networking, SNMP installation).  * Script backups, application deployments and employee deactivations with PowerShell.  * Manage IBM DS series SAN, Promise VTrak, and NetApp FAS2050 storage arrays.  * Utilize SolarWinds, Microsoft, Nagios, IBM Systems Director monitoring tools to analyze and make recommendations on system performance.  * Upgrade firmware on IBM X/H series, HP DL series, and Dell R series hardware. Daiichi Sankyo Pharmaceutical - Jersey City, NJ October 2010 to February 2014 System Center Configuration Manager Deployed Kaspersky Endpoint Security throughout the organization 2007 to December 2007 SCCM) for software distribution and patch management.  • Managed VMware 5.1 ESXi hosts on Cisco UCS blades.  • Utilized Riverbed Cascade, SolarWinds, and Case Sentry for monitoring systems and network.  • Backed up critical servers using CommVault backup system.  • Configured, supported, and upgraded Riverbed Steelhead WAN optimization appliances.  • Deployed Kaspersky Endpoint Security throughout the organization  • Used RecoverPoint replication with EMC SAN storage for VM and file share synchronization.  • Supported trading environment. Education Western Governors University 2012 to 2014 B.A. in Psychology in National Seton Hall University - South Orange, NJ January 2010