Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Springfield, VA Work Experience Systems Administrator Virginia Pediatric Group, Ltd. - Fairfax, VA June 2017 to Present ?     Provide routine technical support via remote access, in person, by phone, and by email.  ?     Identified, isolated, and repaired computer equipment showing wear and tear as well as during preventative maintenance routines on Windows desktops.  ?     Implement software solutions for departments and serves as the liaison between offices and software engineers.  ?     Resolve technical issues through troubleshooting and software knowledge.  ?     Provides technical recommendations for both hardware and software upgrades as needed.  ?     Create and maintain access to EHR software and email accounts for employees. Administrative Assistant Sequoia Management - Chantilly, VA April 2015 to June 2017 Utilized strong communication skills to act as liaison between homeowners and homeowner associations.  ? Accurately and efficiently organized property management data into database system.  ? Managed workflow for contractors by generating and assigning responsibilities as needed.  ? Assisted in compiling requisite documents to homeowners for mail distribution at HOA communities.  ? Provide any needed administrative support to Office Manager. Floor Supervisor Vans - Woodbridge, VA May 2013 to April 2015 Managed onsite team of sales associates to best provide stellar customer service to customers and to maintain loyal customer base.  ? Develop, cultivate, and grow relationships with customers in order to grow sales for store.  ? Compiled data, statistics, and analytics from monthly sales to maintain or exceed sale goals.  ? Performed pertinent operational paperwork such as safety audits and loss prevention audits to maintain integrity of store.  ? Responsible for all onsite finances and deposits during shift.  ? Key holder, responsible for money and deposits. Floor Supervisor Quiksilver - Woodbridge, VA July 2010 to September 2012 Acted as main point-of-contact between store and corporate office to maintain newest information technology for store and disseminated knowledge to employees to best use store technology.  ? Facilitated all weekly promotional marketing, sales, and floor presentations to maintain brand aesthetic.  ? Coordinated all new orientation of sales associates to store.  ? Conducted routine conference calls with main office and suppliers to ensure stock was up-to-date. Senior Brand Representative/Sales Associate Pacific Sunwear - Woodbridge, VA July 2007 to April 2010 Acted as Senior Brand Representative in charge of training new employees.  ? Responsible for upkeep and maintenance of all point-of-sale systems.  ? Maintained integrity of store by creating all visual displays on sales floor, organizing storefront and back office, and general appearance of store. Education Diploma Potomac Senior High School - Dumfries, VA 2007 Skills System Admin