Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Bel Air, MD IT professional with a TOP SECRET clearance that currently specializes in system administration as well as hardware and software technical support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator CACI International Inc October 2015 to Present • Utilizes VMWare to provide installation, administration, and maintenance of virtual machines on both NIPR and DREN networks.  • Provides user support for all issues regarding server and share access, account creations, etc.  • Handles administration and maintenance of Avamar EMC server.  • Utilizes Active Directory to handle the creation and administration of DREN and NIPR user and computer accounts.  • Performs software deployments and upgrades with System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM)  • Uses Nessus to scan for vulnerabilities on servers and workstations as well as patching those vulnerabilities.  • Performs basic network configuration of routers, switches, etc. Systems Administrator Nexagen Networks April 2015 to October 2015 • Performs maintenance on server rack equipment. (IBM Bladecenter H22, Cisco Catalyst 3750, NetApp Data Storage devices, etc.)  • Utilizes VMWare VSphere to load OVA/OVFs to server as well as troubleshoot any issues.  • Creates virtual diagram of server racks using Microsoft Access functionality.  • Performs any wiring of equipment as needed for connectivity.    Bowhead Support Desktop Support Technician Army Gold Master August 2014 to April 2015 • Provides local touch labor via trouble tickets.  • Responds to and resolves help desk tickets.  • Installs and supports Government furnished software.  • Installs and upgrades printers, desktops, laptops, blackberry, scanners, and digital senders.  • Installs software to include but not be limited to; Army Gold Master and all other Army approved software required for mission support.  • Problem resolution, software upgrades and updates for all PCs/laptops.  • Diagnosis of problems that may involve applications, installation backbone network, client electronic mail, peripheral devices and web applications.  • Provides IAVA/STIG compliance for all supported laptops and desktops. Update/patch/resolve any desktop/laptop issues related to security inspections, periodic scans, and DoD Information Assurance Certification Accreditation Process (DIACAP) compliance requirements.  • Trouble tickets relating to CAC/PKI which cannot be resolved by desktop support personnel will be transferred to the PKI Team for additional analysis, troubleshooting and problem resolution.  • Analyzes network failures in order to isolate problem areas, determine and perform corrective actions to bring the desktop back to full operational status.  • Written evaluations, procedures, checklists and instructions for CIO approval upon notification by the COR or CIO.  • Technical advice.  • Off-site support when required, i.e. conferences, meetings, or any alternate sites where C4IM support is needed. Some travel may be required.  • MS Outlook and blackberry client support.  • Single user training while troubleshooting an end user problem.  • Surge support as needed, i.e. Life Cycle Replacement.  • Phone support in a Windows 7 environment.  • Troubleshoots operating system, application and hardware issues to include MS Outlook, MS Office, MS Office Communicator, Firefox, Adobe Reader, Lotus Sametime, Java and PKI technologies.  • Installs software and drivers, COTS applications supported include Internet Explorer,  • Hardware includes, but is not limited to desktop, laptop and tablet PC platforms, networked and standalone printers/copier/fax machines, smartphones, Avaya VoIP and Polycom 8000 series VTC equipment. IT Support Analyst DSCI January 2013 to August 2014 • Responsible for providing Help Desk Service support services, which requires the ability to understand a broad range of supported applications and have some technical expertise in the areas of hardware and software.  • Provides first-level support of inbound customer calls and incident tickets in a call center environment.  • Provides accurate triage / assignment / escalation of reported incidents; promptly identifying and escalating high priority issues.  • Provides telephone support for hardware and software problems to customers with little or no background in computer systems.  • Accurately identifies and documents incident troubleshooting and resolution.  • Provides a high level of professionalism and customer service.  • Communicates effectively, both orally and in writing.  • Re-images machines with baseline Windows 7 operating system software.  • Utilizes Active Directory to add, delete, move, and maintain user and computer accounts inside the SEC organization domain.  • Performs installs of NEC-approved software on CECOM machines.  • Performs data backups and transfers of hard drive data through use of data transfer utility on admin machine.  • Utilizes rekeywiz application to re-encrypt laptops or desktop machines with new CAC card certificates  • Installs and configures printers on user machines by printer share name or IP address.  • Configures Cisco AnyConnect VPN client on newly imaged machines.  • Performs remote troubleshooting with use of DameWare application.  • Troubleshoots various applications in the Microsoft Office Suite including Microsoft Outlook. Information Technology Intern SAIC June 2012 to December 2012 • Used the ColdFusion programming language in Dreamweaver to code hot fixes and patches to solve issues and maintain the FEMA Responder Knowledge Base website.  • Performed database administrative duties using Oracle SQL Developer. Business Development Intern URS Corporation July 2011 to November 2011 • Organized company data into presentable reports by utilizing Microsoft Office Suite Applications  • Established systems, tools, and processes needed to catalog graphics, pictures and block text for proposal writing  • Assisted employees with data collection from potential buyers for company presentations Education BS in Cybersecurity University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD December 2014 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (4 years), VMWARE (3 years), NESSUS (3 years), AVAMAR (3 years), EMC (3 years), System Admin, System Administrator Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Comp TIA Security+ (Exp. 2022)  • Active Directory  • Remedy Ticketing Tool  • Avamar EMC  • VMWare VSphere Client  • Windows (7,8,10, Server 2008, 2008 R2, Server 2012 R2)  • Microsoft Office Troubleshooting  • System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM)  • Nessus Vulnerability Scanner  • ACAS Vulnerability Scanner  • SCAP  • Cisco Networking  • Microsoft Project  • Sharepoint  • WSUS