Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> North Canton, OH This is a test Work Experience Systems Administrator UNIVERSITY HOSPITALS 2012 to Present As Systems Administrator at University Hospitals I build, manage and maintain a relatively large enterprise server environment consisting of 2,500 virtual servers and about 500 physical servers. My primary focus/expertise in this role has been Microsoft Server administration, VMware, SAN administration and disaster recovery. I am highly proficient with PowerShell and scripting automation. I frequently work with our business owners and IT infrastructure teams to evaluate, understand and strive to provide the best IT server/storage solutions for new and existing business needs.  Key Contributions and Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for the planning, building and maintenance of Windows servers for new and existing applications.  ? Provide operational support and ticket resolution by troubleshooting server hardware and application issues. Issues that I resolve frequently include everything from mail delivery, file sharing, enterprise printing issues as well as implementing group policies.  ? Participate in architecture meetings for all applications being assimilated into the environment. This involves a highly collaborative review with all major IT infrastructure groups/departments. I represent the server storage department and make sure that any new application or servers adhere to our strict architectural guidelines.  ? Develop PowerCLi scripts and templates to automate the server build process. This includes setting up templates in VMware and build-checklists for physical servers.  ? Helped develop the organization's disaster recovery plan and procedures. I was solely responsible for working with all of the core infrastructure teams in the IT department to document and gather all of the necessary information for our Disaster Recovery plan. This involved documenting recovery procedures, downtime procedures and dependency mapping.  ? Perform light database reporting using SQL query commands.  ? Dramatically decreased our recovery time objective (RTO) for clinical IT systems in the event of a DR scenario from 8 hours down to 2 hours. I accomplished this by scripting/automating the failover of the entire production VMware environment to our disaster recovery data center using PowerCLI.  ? Implemented and built the server infrastructure for the hospital's disaster recovery environment. This involved the planning and installation of VSphere 6.0, configuration of 160 ESX hosts, installation of all C7000 blade enclosures and the presentation of all of our enterprise IBM SVC SAN replicated storage at our secondary data center.  ? Streamlined the organization's disaster recovery testing methods which in turn allowed the organization to test all of Tier 0 and Tier 1 critical applications for the first time.    ? Migrated all of our 3PAR, EMC and HP XP array systems to IBM SVC (storage virtualization). This allowed us to centrally manage all of our individual SAN arrays and SAN storage pools.  ? Reduced costs to our department by $100K/year by identifying and then putting together a plan to correct inefficient use of leased cabinet space at our colocation data center.  ? Contributed to a 24-hour On-Call rotation. Desktop Support Engineer II UNIVERSITY HOSPITALS - Shaker Heights, OH 2011 to 2012 Desktop Support Engineer I UNIVERSITY HOSPITALS - Shaker Heights, OH 2008 to 2011 My journey at University Hospitals initially started in Desktop Support/Engineering at our corporate headquarters. In this role I provided desktop support to both corporate and clinical employees. I was responsible for supporting 700 employees and helping develop the standard desktop images for the hospital. I was consistently recognized as "Top Ticket Resolver" and frequently received great customer service feedback.  Key Contributions and Responsibilities:  ? Aided employees with desktop issues involving Windows XP, Windows 7 and the entire MS Office Suite and Outlook.  ? Helped develop/improve our standard desktop images and imaging processes.    ? Managed, coordinated and deployed new hardware and software.  ? Provided support for IT project rollouts (Single Sign On and laptop encryption).  ? Performed virus remediation to users with infected work computers.    ? Supported common issues with BlackBerry devices including BES activations.    ? Researched and discovered core components of system-wide virus outbreak. I implemented a remediation plan which led to the successful remediation of over 25,000 infected workstations.    ? Provided ongoing support to new Service Desk Analysts for proper ticket routing and remediation.  ? Consistently recognized for prompt, knowledgeable and exceptional service.  ? Contributed to a 24-hour On-Call rotation.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE IT Systems Support Specialist/ Jr. Systems Administrator INTERNATIONAL DATA MANAGEMENT - Akron, OH 2007 to 2008 Working in a database analytics and software development company, I assisted employees and clientele with issues involving MS Office Suite, SQL Server 2005, Outlook (2003 - 2007), and Windows XP.  Key Responsibilities:  ? Managed daily differential backups and all employee/client requests for file restorations.    ? Created and managed Windows user accounts within Active Directory.  ? Performed PC builds/rebuilds and supported desktop hardware issues.  ? Maintained, configured and deployed laptops for company employees.  ? Collaborated closely with the application development teams in order to quickly resolve software issues.  ? Configured and setup adhoc networks for employees on business trips.  ? Researched new technology and ideas for networked systems. Education Associates Degree in Computer Technology in Computer Technology KENT STATE UNIVERSITY - Kent, OH May 2007 Skills architecture (6 years), disaster recovery. (6 years), IBM SVC (6 years), SAN (6 years), SQL (7 years), Vmware, System Administrator, Linux, Active Directory Additional Information IT SKILLS    ? Windows Server 2008-2016  ? PowerShell  ? Active Directory  ? GPO  ? vSphere Administration    ? PowerCLI  ? ESX  ? HP Blade Server Architecture  ? Disaster Recovery  ? SQL clusters    ? IBM SVC (SAN Volume Controller)  ? SANs  ? 3PAR  ? HP Brocade