Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Dallas, TX Being a Systems Admin for Neora International is very imperative. I stared here as the new technician but quickly rose through the ranks gaining knowledge as a Jr Systems administrator. At Neora International, I would maintain a minimum amount of downtime on their core system. Also administer some basic network troubleshooting with VMWare, Cisco VPN Client, Client-Exchange Server, SCCM, primary focus in Active Directory and DNS changes for our HQ and International support. All this which was an essential standard of performance for the organization. I am fluent in Spanish with 4 years of experience as a Jr Systems Administrator and I look forward to expanding my career in IT.    I am authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Neora International, LLC - Addison, TX June 2017 to Present • Manage domain administration including creating, deleting, and customizing users accounts in Active Directory/ Client Exchange/ and Shoretel Connections VoIP    • Managed the virtualized server environments daily and HyperV desktops identifying potential performance issues and resolving them before they have a negative impact on the end-users.    • Maintain VMware, virtual environment as its host sever infrastructure and subsystems (Windows 2012r2 and 2016)  • Deploy and maintain new Domain Controllers with Active Directory features    • Manage AWS (Amazon Web Services) and Go Daddy hosted zones.  • Manage and configure Microsoft DNS and DHCP servers.    • Helped move to new Data Center  • Experience in Data Center move including moving all new Systems and Workstation to new HQ building.  • Administered and maintained VM migrations in VmWare    • Ensure that our IT environment and routines comply with group policy  • Handle and support external contractors as required for Network, phone, internet, alarm systems and other functionality    • Responsible for support to level 1 and 2 in HQ for 350+ users and 100 International users.  • Responsible for Spanish assistance of IT systems in Mexico, Colombia and remote Sales Offices.    • Troubleshoot and resolve hardware, software, and printing issues as they occur. Also Install, configure, retire, and refresh PC equipment.  (Dell, Surface, Lenovo, HP, Mac)    • Setup new workstations for new employees.  • Maintained important level of customer service to associates and Level C executives    • Administered users accounts and licenses in Adobe Management console  • Experience in a Client/Server operations environment Microsoft OS and supporting a Mobile Device Management platform.    .• Remote support using TEAM VIEWER/ LANDESK REMOTE/SCCM/VNC  • Utilize technical and procedure documentation for Help Desk, PC desktop/laptop configuration standards and install procedures.    • Set up secure WiFi, LAN and VoIP networks at remote locations, leading client/server configuration and performance-tuning of crucial infrastructure to ensure seamless business operations.    • Assisted Sr. System Administrators in managing and supporting the computing security challenges with SCCM as well as pushing the updates patches.    • Troubleshoot and resolve basic network LAN/WAN, TCP/IP protocol and server access problems for associates including printers.    • Cut incident callback rate by 12%; used technical, analytical and communication skills to accurately identify user needs and provide effective solutions.    • Awarded “Star Employee” three times for delivering outstanding technical support and customer service first three months of employment.    • Imaged, configured and updated desktops and laptops for new or existing associates.  • Support weekends on rotation bases.  • Administered pc desktop, laptop and msc equipment inventory    • Maintained and administered computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, application software and all configurations. Some which included Windows7/8/10 and MAC OS.    • Manage and assist monitoring of Windows Server environment(Windows server 2012 R2 and Windows Server 2016) with Sr. Systems Administrator Junior Systems Administrator Credit Union - Dallas, TX July 2013 to June 2017 • Administered pc desktop, laptop and MAC equipment inventory (Dell, HP, Lenovo,)     • Maintained high level of customer service to 200+ users, Level C executives and customers of the organization.     • Administered users accounts in Active Directory/ Client Exchange/ and Airwatch Client     • Maintained, build, and administered Windows Server 2012r2 and 2016  • Lead IT in maintaining and upgrading IMM servers including the applications IMM TotaleReceipts/ IMMTotaleAtlas e-signature/ Adobe sign    • Administered and managed VoIP phone system ADAPT Interaction Client by creating user accounts and phone queues.     • Assisted Sr. System Administrators in managing and supporting the computing security challenges with SCCM as well as pushing the updates patches.      • Administered and managed VoIP phone system ADAPT Interaction Client by creating user accounts and phone queues.     • Assisted Sr. System Administrators in managing and supporting the computing security challenges with SCCM as well as pushing the updates patches.      • Maintained uptime in Juniper switches and upgraded firmware with needed.   • Remote support using TEAM VIEWER/ LANDESK REMOTE when on call for the week.     • Troubleshoot and resolve basic network LAN/WAN, TCP/IP protocol and server access problems for associates including software and printer connectivity      • Administered users accounts in Active Directory/ Client Exchange/ and Airwatch Client   • Assist other IT as needed, including processing batch jobs in core processing system with FISERV XP • Maintained FISERV XP2/ NCAT/ Lynxgate core system uptime including end of the month backup and yearly Core Upgrades.     • Prepare reports, distribute departmental inter-office correspondence, file, and provide general assistance to IT Department personnel as directed by the IT Manager.     • Track software license usage and file licensing documentation   • Overlooked and mentored Help Desk technician’s duties as assigned also reviewed and recommend modifications to procedures.      • Maintained prominent level of customer service to associates, Level C executives and over 200+ users. Management Trainee/Rental Agent Enterprise Holdings - Dallas, TX January 2009 to August 2014 • Prepare all rental documents accurately and completely.  • Verify car information and VIN number for security and car control.  • Perform other customer service related duties, in addition to those listed, to ensure  our service levels meets the needs of the customer.  • Take incoming calls- reservations, rate quotes, general questions and answers,  provide information and resolution for customers, other branches, insurance  companies, dealerships, repair shops and other vendors  • Manage outgoing calls for callback management, A/Rs and miscellaneous calls as assigned  • Provide a prominent level of customer service by assisting customers and assessing  their rental needs in person and over the phone  • Meet and greet customers in a friendly and timely manner  • Understand and communicate rental terms and conditions.  • Sell optional protection products, (Rental Insurance)  • Perform various administrative and basic accounting functions such as: research and billing support tasks, accounts receivables, transfer and key logs, run miscellaneous  reports, supply maintenance, process customer billing  • Perform miscellaneous and backup duties job-related duties as assigned  Include but are not limited to:  • Conducting electronic and telephone investigations along with assigning field  appraisers/adjusters to assist with investigations  • Gathering and evaluating coverage information, taking recorded statements, police  reports, repair estimates and other related documents. • Determining coverage and liability Education Associate in Informations Systems El Centro College - Dallas, TX August 2015 to May 2021 High school or equivalent Adamson High School - Dallas, TX August 2003 to May 2006 Skills Windows Server 2010, 2012 R2 and 2016. WMware virtulization and HyperV (4 years), Active Directory, Technical Support, Microsoft Office, Vmware, Windows 7, System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information • Knowledge in Microsoft products such as, Windows Desktop, Mac OS and Microsoft Office (Word,  Excel, PowerPoint, Access)   • Administrator of basic networks and equipment.   • Windows Server 2010, 2012 R2 and 2016  • Knowledge administrating VM Ware virtual center, Active Directory, Mail Client-exchange, VoIP Phones   • Help desk skills/Desktop support/ Remote support, ex.( Windows 7/8/10   • Landesk Remote/SCCM Remote/Teamviewer/VNC   • Experience with Apple phones, tablets, Window Surface.   • Knowledge on basic windows group policy