Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II - Vector USA West Covina, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator II Vector USA - Torrance, CA 2016 to Present Responsible for maintaining core servers, core services, storage, networks and workstations for several managed services client customers in the Port Terminal industries (Long Beach Container Terminal, TraPac, Fenix Marine, Yusen Terminals) supporting 24/7 high availability production environments. This includes design, implementation, configuration, coordination, maintenance, troubleshooting, security, usage monitoring, and the development and execution of specialized system procedures.  ·    Supported VMWare and Windows Server 2012/2016 remotely in a team environment and onsite at client sites. Troubleshooted and implemented solutions on an individual basis and as part of a team. Relished experience of leading, guiding, and motivating team of 10 system or network administrators on a 24/7 rotating schedule. Mentored and trained newer administrators that join the team. Able to provide quality leadership and rapport amongst team members.   ·    Carry out system and network administration functions across multiple client environments, with a sound understanding of the interactions between hardware, operating system software and business applications to successfully support and ensure efficient, reliable, and secure production environments.   ·    Responsible for maintaining IT infrastructure including in depth knowledge of Windows, Mac, and Linux servers and desktop computers, as well as experience daily managing an VM-based infrastructure. Led WSUS weekly environment server patching schedule, as well as created core server backup policies. Coordinated with third party vendors to resolve issues. network monitoring, backups, email, spam filtering, AV, VPN, mobile devices, VOIP systems, troubleshooting and end-user support for desktop and mobile devices.    Proficient in Windows server 2012-2016 administration which includes AD, group policy, daily administration tasks, WSUS server patching, configuration and management, design and installation, local and domain security policy, networking, security, and server management.  IT Consultant \ Systems Administrator Fox Entertainment / MundoMax Broadcast Network - Los Angeles, CA 2015 to 2016 IT Consultant \ Systems Administrator  Fox Entertainment / MundoMax Broadcast Network, Los Angeles, Ca 2015–2016  Successfully led domain migration project which transitioned 150 users in 3 different cities (LA, NY, Miami) from Fox onto a new domain infrastructure and Office 365 in less than 2 months.  ·  Worked side by side with Principal Architect on a two- man IT team to comprise and execute migration plan.  ·  Installed, configured, tested, and deployed infrastructure hardware (servers, network switches, firewall, AP’s, desktops).  ·  Provided Office 365/ SharePoint administration and training to users individually and in group setting.  ·  Successfully implemented, configured, and managed Manage Engine IT ServiceDesk Suite which increased department efficiency by 50%.  ·  Contributed to network design and troubleshooting with an understanding of IP networking, address allocation, sub netting, and basic routing. Also familiar with authentication methods, encryption, protocols, and VPN.  ·  Implemented and managed technical services of Windows network infrastructure, including AD, GPO, WSUS.  ·  Provided department stability and lone source of IT help for 2 months once Principal architect was forced to resign due to health, and worked directly under VP of engineering. Once Director of IT was hired, trained director on environment, applications, and culture and got him up to speed quickly.   ·  Performed maintenance and repairing of personal computer hardware, software and peripherals for enterprise customers, installation of printers activation of network ports, including desktop patching in IDF, assisting remote users and remote sites including user and departmental moves  ·  Trained and led small Service Desk team before broadcast network was shut down due to poor ratings. Data Center Systems Engineer II California Institute of Technology - Pasadena, CA 2011 to 2015 Provided excellent data center engineering support at Caltech’s Infrared Processing and Analysis Center (IPAC) where6 Petabytes of data from NASA's Infrared Astronomy and Astrophysics missions (IRSA, Spitzer, NED, Kepler, Herschel, Wise, Planck, Euclid, NexSci) are stored, processed, analyzed, and archived.    ·  Reduced hardware costs and energy consumption by leading data center migration project of obsolete hardware platforms to virtual machines.  ·  Configure physical servers and utilize kickstart’s to deploy Virtual machines (RHEL Xen and KVM, VMWare) and customized them to fit various different project specifications and needs.  ·  Responsible for application management, configuration and administration, installation, kernel customization, networking, performance and accounting, security and system monitoring  ·  Conducted data center re-design and upgrades, which included physical installation of hundreds of feet of fiber optic cables between 3 data centers for 10GB networking upgrade.   ·  Led data rack mounting, connecting, and configuring new servers/switches and other data center equipment.  ·  Participated and collaborated on 10GB upgrade project of entire network which included migrating Cisco 6509 modular chassis network switch to Cisco N7K, and converting Cisco 2650’s clusters to Cisco N2K’s.  ·  Install, deploy, monitor, maintain, upgrade and support hundreds of Linux, Windows and Solaris Servers /Virtual machines, NAS arrays, and networking switches.  ·  Diagnose, troubleshoot and resolve a range of software, hardware and connectivity issues in a timely manner. Excel in problem management by asking probing questions and researching, analyzing and rectifying problems. Able to troubleshoot issues across multiple operating systems using vendor documentation or on-line resources.  ·  Achieved large scale data backups and disaster recovery operations. Ensure backup tapes are running as scheduled, and able to resolve any issues.   ·  Create, assign, modify, and delete user accounts, and resolve any security access problems.   ·  Write and Maintain up to date system documentation and user support procedures in Wiki. Systems Engineer 2 California Institute of Technology - Pasadena, CA 2009 to 2011 ·  Responsible for Spitzer Science Center (SSC) system level testing on a science operations system for NASA’s Spitzer Space telescope project. One of four key members of the Integration and Test team supporting a Jet Propulsion Lab (JPL) flight operations project. Activities included test planning, test case generation, requirements verification and validation, test data management, test execution, and test documentation.  ·  Increased software reliability and network stability by conducting customized load tests on science archives and network infrastructure using Enterprise-class load test tool SilkPerformer. Performed detailed documented analysis to pinpoint concurrency issues. Successfully resolved network infrastructure bottleneck which saved project $500,000 by not having to purchase new firewall.   ·  Successfully migrated Infrared Space Telescope scientific data from a client based archive (SPOT/Leopard) to a Java web-based archive (Spitzer Heritage Archive) from start to finish. Performed detailed comparisons between the two systems to ensure 100% data integrity.   ·  Established and maintained test data archives and environments that resemble operational data archives.  ·  Collaborated with a wide range of people, from project scientists, astronomers, software developers, database administrators, and configuration management clerks on a daily basis to ensure that mission was successful and on budget.  ·  Honored with the NASA Public Service Achievement Award in June 2010for outstanding execution of science operations and support of the astronomical community for the Spitzer Cryogen mission and IRAC Warm Instrument Characterization (IWIC). Systems Engineer I California Institute of Technology - Pasadena, CA 2007 to 2009 ·  Responsible for testing large scale software releases, problem reporting, and bug fix verification.  ·  Generated comprehensive easy to read test metrics and test reports.  ·  Created and maintained test documentation website to centrally store documents such as test cases, test procedures, requirements documents, presentations, and system test reports. IT Business Systems Analyst Eaton Vance Investment Management - Boston, MA 2006 to 2007 • Collaborated with IT project management, infrastructure, and software development teams and conducted activities such as business analysis, data analysis, reporting design, and configuration management.  • Performed quality assurance integration testing to verify data integrity across multiple fund trading systems.  • Created and updated Requirements Documents for new CRD functionalities.  • Conducted financial trade order reconnaissance multiple times daily in order to confirm trades were sent to the accounting department efficiently and in a timely manner.  • Solely responsible for creating and gathering documentation for Sarbanes Oxley act compliance testing. Database System Administrator Northeastern University Graduate School (Co-op internship) - Boston, MA 2004 to 2004 • Provided technical support for Northeastern University Graduate School’s Recruitment Plus (R+) Database.  • Installed and maintained R+ database on 20+ workgroup workstations.  • Held individual training sessions to individuals or groups and assisted in R+ group training courses.  • Created valuable marketing research reports and presented them to Director of Graduate Admissions on how to increase admissions.  Admissions increased by 10% annually the following 3 years.  Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Technology Northeastern University - Boston, MA 2005 Skills Virtualization (8 years), Microsoft Server (5 years), Linux (7 years), Storage (8 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/jonocho Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xiel-kth6zzeb9du Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lyjvxag7gyur8qz6 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.