Systems Administrator III <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> III Systems Administrator III - Flambeau - Baraboo Sauk City, WI Over 12 years of professional experience in systems support, analysis and desktop functions in a corporate infrastructure environment. Experienced in information systems support, problem resolution, process planning, documentation, change management, and project planning. Also extremely skilled in supporting a large infrastructure environment and implementing technology to support large user groups. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Systems Administrator III Flambeau - Baraboo December 2018 to Present • Implemented SaaS SPAM and Archiving software  • Built out and configured VSphere 6.7 for our UK office  • Migrated old VM's off of old hardware onto our new hardware  • Work on the yearly Budget  • Work on Level 3 helpdesk tickets  • Maintain SPAM filtering and email throughput  • Administer Exchange 2010  • Work on bigger projects having to do with the improvement of the infrastructure  • Quoting out and working with Dell on vxRail  • Work on deploy individual users to O365 ITSM Change Manager (Contract) QBE - Sun Prairie, WI September 2018 to December 2018 • Ran Weekly Change meetings  • Worked through all changes submitted via Service Now  • Weekly reports for Unplanned and Urgent Unplanned Changes  • Helped with Problems caused by change  • Provided technical knowledge to help others understand certain changes being submitted Sr. Systems Windows Administrator - Tech Lead Fiserv - Madison, WI March 2017 to September 2018 • Work on high-end projects for the BU  • Daily status of team projects and report to status to manager  • Work with other Sr's on how to better develop our teams for coverage and our own growth as a team  • VMware Administration and upgrading our hardware and software  • Lead my team to work together to complete the work and projects assigned. Offer my help when needed.  • Front of the line for our NAS migration to new Storage array  • Set up Cisco UCS for Production SQL environment  • Delegate daily tasks to admins for completion  • Worked on Service Point tickets daily  • Handled weekly meetings for project status with team  • Ensures Change Management processes, procedures, and checklists are enforced  • Ran CAB to provide input for changes and the impacts of the changes Windows System Administrator Fiserv - Madison, WI December 2013 to March 2017 • Administration of 4 Domains containing 400 plus servers, Upgrade OS to server 2008 R2/2012 R2 in each environment.  ? Active Directory administration for each domain  ? DNS assignments and DMZ IP's assigned to each server based on current VLAN  ? Worked with Networking team to secure Firewall  ? Group Policy Management and assignment  ? Linux Administration for proxy and monitoring server (Red Hat and Ubuntu)  • Daily projects assigned  ? Web server upgrades and user access via IIS 7  ? Administer SharePoint 2007 documents and users setup  ? Application server builds and application installs  ? Monitor services daily using XYMON for reporting purposes  ? SSL certificates for any server that talks outside of the DMZ  * Local certificates generated as well using OpenSSL  ? Maintained all certificates through SharePoint  * Remedy tickets created and utilized for Root Certs and Trusted Certs  • Lead Administrator on MDaemon email server  ? Created groups and user accounts  ? Maintained logs on all 3 mail servers  * Generated list for Technical documentation for our clients  • Monitoring and Proxy Administration (Red Hat)  ? All servers and services as well as CPU monitored daily through Big Brother (Xymon)  ? All flagged IP's and URL's are entered into Squid Proxy server rule set  • WSUS administration and Monthly patching to all systems  • Upgraded DR site  ? Server and SAN refresh  • ColdFusion Patching and testing  • Maintained Vulnerability Management  ? Submission through TVM portal via Service Now  • Weekly Project meetings  ? Delegated projects to team members equally with Managers signoff  • Created VMware Templates for deployment of servers, fixed hardened security issues when needed  • Daily monitoring of Symantec NetBackup System  ? Restarted any failed jobs  ? Swapped out tapes when needed  ? Created Policy's for backup jobs  ? Upgrade software and tape drive - worked with HP for install IT - Network Specialist TDS Telecom - Madison, WI February 2012 to August 2013 • Daily Server Administration in test environment  • Worked on Microsoft Media Room Platform  • Maintained MMR Personal Server  • Duplicated Production Environments into Lab Environments  • Monitored daily upgrades  • Server, Software troubleshooting  • Error reporting and PerfMon  • Worked in Developing newer technologies to coincide with current hardware  • Set up and Managed Accounts in Microsoft Media Room  • Designed Packages for IPTV platform  • SCOM Troubleshooting IT - Systems Administrator/Engineer AE Business Solutions - Madison, WI April 2011 to February 2012 • Daily Server Administration  • Add/Changes/Deletes/Password resets - Active Directory Users and Computers  • Internal and Hosted Backup Support (HP Data Protector)  • Notification Alerts.  • Server, Software troubleshooting  • Network, WAN and Firewall Administration  • Daily Help Desk Administration  • Desk Side Computer Support  • Printer Support  • Cell Phone Support  • Installed OS software, patches and upgrades  • Migration to Exchange 2010 and Active Directory 2008  • Zimbra Administration  • SharePoint Administration IT - Systems Administrator BouMatic, LLC June 2009 to April 2011 • Performed system backups and recovery; set schedules on our Unitrends devices for system backups.  • Conducted multiple server builds.  • Developed and implemented daily checklists and performance monitoring procedures of key infrastructure services.  • Participated in designing supportable architectures and systems.  • Provided Technical Supervision and Management of consultants on projects as needed.  • Provide Level 3 Support to the Help Desk on complicated issues.  • Managed multiple infrastructure projects as assigned; assisted in the planning of on-going system requirements  • Interface and manage third-party consultants and resources on IT infrastructure projects.  • Installed OS software, patches and upgrades  • Maintained Exchange Mailboxes and storage limits daily IT - Operations and Infrastructure Analyst BouMatic, LLC April 2008 to June 2009 • Take initial telephone, e-mail or SysAid inquiry related to hardware, software, network or application (JD Edwards, Cognos, etc.) problems and resolve in thirty minutes or less;  • Create, modify and delete user accounts for all supported systems and manage access control based on company policies.  • Desktop and IP Phone Support:  • Maintain IT informational databases of ip addresses and locations and assigned telephone equipment;  • Work with hardware and software vendors to verify timely product delivery and ensure that new equipment is installed and set up on schedule;  • Analyze and make recommendations for hardware and software standardization;  • Install, configure and maintain desktop and laptop PCs and peripherals;  • Co-ordinate Cell Phone purchases, changes and repairs.  • Assist in the analysis, troubleshooting and resolution of system hardware, software and networking issues;  • Perform and monitor system backups and recovery  • Interact with all Network Users. IT Instructor TechSkills - Madison, WI July 2005 to January 2008 • Meeting all campus and corporate retention and student completion mandates for all programs;  • Track retention, attendance, completion rates, and so forth to document student success and identify areas that need improvement.  • Maintain personal delivery metrics as set forth by the Director of Education and Corporate.  • Participate in student registration, orientation, and other student activities and organizations that involve students and foster their academic and career-oriented success.  • Comply with requirements for meeting state regulations and ACCET accrediting standards and other corporate initiatives that ensure academic quality.  • Implement teaching/learning strategies and methods for measuring effectiveness.  • Work with Corporate Education to revise curricula. Education Associate Skills Active directory (10+ years), Dns (10+ years), Microsoft sharepoint (4 years), Sharepoint (4 years), Vmware (7 years) Additional Information Operating Systems:  • Microsoft Windows Server 2003, 2008/R2 Standard and Enterprise, 2012/R2 and 2016  * Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, IIS 7 and Cold Fusion  * WSUS server, Shavlik (ivanti)  * SCCM and SCOM server  • Microsoft Windows XP, Microsoft Windows Vista, Microsoft Windows 7 and MAC OSX, Windows 10  • Linux Red Hat and Ubuntu 12.04, 13.04 and 14.04  ? Squid Proxy and Blue Coat Proxy Server    Software:  • Microsoft SharePoint Server 2010 and 2013  • Microsoft Office 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013 and 2016, 0365  ? Exchange 2003, 2007, 2010, 2016  • Trendmicro AV/FortiClient, McAfee, Solar Winds and Trigeo  ? SSL certificates, FTP, FTPS, and SFTP  • Microsoft SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2014  ? Installs, user permissions and cluster configurations    Programming: VBScript and Batch scripts    Virtualization:  • VMware ESXi, versions 4 - 6.7  ? VDI implementation