Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator El Paso, TX Work Experience Systems Administrator Army STT Team Chief - Fort Bliss, TX January 2011 to September 2015 • Performed Product Support issues including computer repair, customer service, hardware replacement, and software updates.  • Answered End User phone calls, documented issues, maintained history records for resolutions to end user issues.  • Installed and configured printers and scanners for both business and personal entities.  • Diagnosed computer/network related issues and escalated problems when no resolution was available.  • Troubleshot problems, tested, and repaired Satellite Transportable Terminal.  • Ordered over 250,000 dollars of Parts and Supplies for technical equipment.  • Supervised a team which included their training and evaluation. Exceeded corporation standards of operation and maintenance during multiple field exercises.  • Provided uplink and down link for non-traditional fiber (T2 6.312Mbps) networking for over 250 users. Jr. Systems Administrator/Sensitive Items Manager U.S. Department of Defense, Kandahar, South Province - AF November 2012 to August 2013 • Assisted the Network Administrator with adding over 200 accounts to the Active Directory domain.  • Monitored LAN/WAN QOS for the Forward Operating Base(FOB) using organization LAN-manager software.  • Performed Product Support issues including computer repair, customer service, hardware replacement, and software updates.  • Supported team with installing video conferencing and telecommunication services.  • Assisted with ensuring all sensitive items were mission capable on a Forward Operating Base with over 2,800 personnel.  • Aided in creating and closing more than 750 trouble tickets while overseas using the Remedy ticketing system. Satellite Link Team Chief U.S. Department of Defense, Camp Red Cloud, Uijeongbu - KR August 2009 to January 2011 • Managed over 525,000 dollars in parts and supplies, while maintaining the reliability of equipment.  • Supervised a team which included three Korean Augmentations to the United States Army. Met corporation standards of operation and maintenance during multiple field exercises to include the U.S. Army wide War Path Campaign.  • Provided and established the uplink and down link for nontraditional networking for over 55 users on a T1 1.544Mbps fiber  network.  • Troubleshot, tested, and repaired radio equipment in vehicles. Education NMSU Honors College May 2019 Information and Engineering Technology New Mexico State University 2015 to 2019 Skills Active directory, Remedy, Server administration, Tcp/ip, Tcp, C/c++, C++, Php, Html5, Linux, Sql, Customer service, Help desk, Laptop repair, Excellent written, Written and verbal, Microsoft office, Forensics, System Administrator, System Admin Assessments Technical Support — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s2qlrwg6s-bma-ve Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.