Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Imagine Solutions Lewisville, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Imagine Solutions - Dallas, TX June 2018 to Present • Troubleshoot User issues not limited to custom application level support.  • Maintain Office 365 subscriptions and Azure AD in AADConnect Hybrid environment.  • Build Azure VM's, Storage Accounts, VNETs along with Azure P2P VPN and Site to Site VPN  • Build Laptops and join to ADDS or Azure AD and maintain security via Microsoft Intune Policies  • Set-up BitLocker Policies to encrypt Drives  • Install and configure Printers and Fileshare Access   • Maintain SharePoint Site in Office 365, Permissions, creation of sub-sites and file level access.  • Maintain OneDrive access for Users through Office 365 licencing  • Reduced IT costs after Negotiating and working with Vendors, ISP, GoToMeeting, Telephony vendors, McAfee, and equipment leasing with preferred rates.  • Implemented and documented security policies for Users and company wide training.  • Troubleshoot and configure Cisco AirNet Access Points and Cisco Wireless Controller 2500 series.   • Beginner level Cisco ASA 5500 series firewall troubleshooting.  • Managed project to migrate all users and computers to Active Directory Domain Services  • Install, configure and maintain a Development Domain, with a Hyper-V environment consisting of 90 VMs.  • Have a good working relationship with upper management and working withing budget constraints and time management of projects. Contractor - Collabera Microsoft January 2017 to Present Skype for Business Online Premier Escalation Support Engineer III  • Troubleshoot Skype for Business Online Tenant issues for Premier level support clients.  • Collect Network traces, Skype for business logs and Fiddler traces to evaluate and resolve sign-in, call quality, video quality and other Skype for business modality issues.  • Effectively evaluate the problems based on severity and escalate to Operations or Triage if necessary to provide a seamless customer experience.  • Troubleshoot Microsoft Broadcast Meeting issues not limited with various browsers, meeting presenters, audio and video quality.  • Review CLS logs, Skype for Business client logs along with network traces, fiddler, and Wireshark tools to effectively and timely create action plans for customers to resolve issues.  • Use Lab environment to re-produce issues and escalate to operations teams for hotfixes or bug fix releases.  • Maintain SLA's and effective comminutions with customer till resolution of case. Systems Administrator Empower Software - Acquired the Richardson Sage Software, Kronos, and ADP - Richardson, TX July 2010 to December 2016 Independent Contractor Empower Software - Acquired the Richardson Sage Software, Kronos, and ADP January 2007 to July 2010 Contractor Sage Software Technisource December 2006 to January 2007 Systems Administrator / Desktop Support Specialist  • Monitor, maintained and supported a range of server /workstation hardware and software for 2000/2003/2008/2012/XP/7,8.1/10, Symantec Backup Exec 8.x/9.x, 10,2012, 2014 Arcserve 2000, Microsoft DNS, and Microsoft DHCP.  • Administration of Microsoft SharePoint 2010 Deployment and Permissions on a single Farm environment  • Administration Microsoft Lync Server 2010 Deployment  • Microsoft Exchange administration in Hybrid mode with Office 365  • Documented and maintained IT Equipment inventory with various tools including HP SIM  • Installed various software application and involvement in deployment of PC's and printers  • Troubleshoot hardware, software and desktop connectivity issues  • Assist in troubleshooting and resolving network hardware and software related failures and issues  • Accurately document all technical support issues using Phaseware Ticketing system.  • Proactively implemented preventive maintenance programs to ensure all systems are updated and secure.  • Responsible for implementing internal moves, adds and changes for IT equipment.  • Respond to help desk calls for support assigned to the desktop support queue by the Help Desk in a timely manner.  • Ensure that follow-up occurs and that help desk calls are properly closed with problem resolution descriptions when work is completed.  • Ensure that desktop images and software variances are deployed in a consistent manner by following current procedures.  • Assist with updating documentation and procedures as they apply to the desktop and site support role.  • Assist users with troubleshooting when required determining underlying issues.  • Assist with application upgrades and major application rollouts where desktop support is required.  • Maintain special assignments and responsibilities as assigned: management of backups, control of desktop image, virus signature updates, and firewall updates for laptops.  • Participate in weekly and bi-weekly operations meetings and provide input and accept assignments as required.  • Tests and deploys standard images for desktop and notebook computers with Sophos SafeGuard Encryption.  • Strategically advises and provides implementation assistance on new initiatives, procedures, and workflows.  • Datacenter experience and managing Colo environment.  • Build HP Server's for various needs, IIS, SQL, Oracle, File Server, Printing, using clustering and or stand alone.  • Maintain HP SIM server for inventory and Remote IRIS.  • Use Microsoft Systems Configuration manager for patch and software deployment. (SCCM)  • Maintain multi-Domain environment with Trusts and Active Directory Infrastructure.  • Helped lead migration from Exchange 2013 to Hybrid Office 365 Email.  • Maintained and managed a single farm SharePoint environment.  • Help Deploy and administer Mobile Device management with MS Intune and Sophos Airwatch.  • Managed all Daily, weekly and Monthly Tape Backups using Backup Exec and offsite vaulting to Iron Mountain  • VMware Administration multiple cluster environment on EXS 5.5  • Cisco IP phone systems administration and Unity Voicemail.  • Familiar Basic Cisco Switches with VLAN configurations and routing concepts.  • GlobalScape SFTP administration  • Microsoft Hyper-V administration  • Evaluate, document and take corrective actions from weekly and daily network and application scans, and alerts from Whats Up Gold.  • Assist in developing responses to internal and external audits, penetration tests, and vulnerability assessments.  • Manage end-user accounts, permissions, access rights, and storage allocations in accordance with best practices regarding privacy, security, and regulatory compliance.  • Perform and test quarterly system backups and restores  • Participate in SSAE SOC 1 audits, both internal and external, and interface with auditors as needed  • Familiar with TCP/IP concepts, DNS internal and Public Records and DHCP IP Addressing. Contractor Nestle Pomeroy I.T Solutions - Hewlett Packard December 2005 to December 2006 Remote Desktop Support Specialist    • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware and software issues either over the phone or in person. Provide support for all applications, systems, and equipment designated for Level II support.  • Escalate issues for resolution in a proper and timely fashion to other tiers/groups within IT, to IT management, and/or to vendor technical support. Works with vendors for proper warranty service and/or RMA replacement of equipment.  • Log and track calls using trouble ticket database, maintain history records and related problem documentation. Provides update, status, and completion information to customers, other members of IT, and Technical Services management.  • Perform and track follow-ups with any outstanding trouble tickets or issues. Keeps timely communication with customers on the status of their issues.  • Installation of client applications, desktop operating systems, desktop hardware, and related peripheral components and printers.  • Maintain proper documentation for issue resolution, installations, configurations and inventory of hardware and software.  • Resolving VPN Checkpoint connection issues and if need be reinstalling client on workstations.  • Documenting and creating knowledge based articles on findings based on incidents I resolved not previously reported.  • Work closely with over 600 HP and Fujitsu Tablet remote sales associates to resolve any software or hardware problems.  • Train clients and colleagues and document training procedures for them.  • Write Simple VB scripts for daily administration. System Administrator \Desktop Support Analyst Castec Inc July 2000 to December 2005 Education Collin County Community College June 2011 MCSE New Horizon Computer Learning Center - Burbank, CA May 2003 Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems California State University - Long Beach, CA May 2000 Skills DSL (5 years), EMC (1 year), Exchange 2000 (3 years), FTP (5 years), VPN (5 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware Additional Information Technical SKILLS  LAN, DSL, T1, TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, SMTP, VPN, POP3, FTP, SFTP, Active Directory.    Exchange 2000 & 2003, 2010, 2013, Office 365, IIS, MS Office, SharePoint 2010, Lync 2010, Skype for Business, HP SIM, EMC, Vmware Vsphere, Datacenter, Cisco Access Points, Bitlocker and Sophos SafeGuard Encryption, SCCM, Cisco Phone System Administration,    SKILLSET  Skill Name Skill Level Experience  Active Directory Administration Intermediate 8 years  Windows Domain Administrator Intermediate 8 years  DNS Administration Intermediate 5 years  Exchange Administration Intermediate 5 years  Windows Desktop Support Expert 15 years  Backup Administration Intermediate 8 years  DHCP Administration Intermediate 5 years  SharePoint Administration Vmware Technology/Hyper-V Mobile Device Management Beginner Beginner Beginner 2 Years 2 years 2 Years    KEYWORDS  Systems Administrator, Help Desk, Information Technology, IT Consultant.