Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II - University of Cincinnati Cincinnati, OH Utilize my knowledge and skills from 15 years in the IT field with the University of Cincinnati to further progress my career. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator II University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH January 2014 to Present • Responsible for all maintenance and upgrades for the VMware environment for the SAP FI and HR employee system, and the Oracle PeopleSoft student information system.  • Maintain all HANA databases for SAP BW systems and responsible for all HANA upgrades. Assisted with the conversion of all BW databases from DB2 to HANA.  • Integral part of creating and maintaining the business continuity site for the SAP FI and HR employee systems and the Oracle PeopleSoft student information systems. This included creating custom scripts for replicating critical systems and providing failover capabilities.  • Responsible for managing SAP software systems, including general maintenance and upgrades.  • Operating system support for Windows and Linux servers.  • Provide hardware support for all BCS systems, including compute nodes, SAN and network switches.  • Assisted with creating the server environment for the new Oracle PeopleSoft student information system. This included installing new hardware, installing and configuring the VMware and Oracle OVM hypervisors, as well as installing guest operating systems and other miscellaneous items.  • Responsible for support and ongoing maintenance of the BCS document repository, OpenKM.  • Integral part of the BCS Public Budget Formulation upgrades to version 7.31/8.1.  • Personally designed and implemented new backup strategy for all BCS VMware virtualized environments.  • Manage storage systems for all BCS systems. This includes supporting and upgrading all IBM v7000 controllers, all attached SAN switches, and maintaining all zoning configurations. Computer Systems Administrator University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH December 2012 to January 2014 • Provide server administration for UCIT including virtualization support for VMware, file and print services and OS support for Windows and Linux servers.  • Maintain LDAP and Active Directory services for the University while serving on the Identity Management team.  • Manage infrastructure consisting of Intel based Dell and IBM hardware, including standalone servers and blade centers.  • Responsible for ensuring a reliable and functional virtual hosting environment for all the University colleges and departments. Server Administrator/Desktop Support University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH August 2011 to November 2012 • Supported the College of DAAP and UCIT with administering virtualization environments for VMware, Citrix Xen and Microsoft Hyper-V. Also provided assistance with file and printing services and operating system management for Windows and Linux servers.  • Provided desktop support to DAAP faculty and staff, including UCFlex, email, printing and general operating system maintenance.  • Assisted faculty and staff with installation and troubleshooting of the SAP GUI client and with resolving access issues to the UCFlex web portal. IT Analyst University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH October 2004 to July 2011 • Investigated and resolved a variety of user errors and problems relating to UCFlex, email and operating systems.  • Entrusted with administering desktop support for the University President and his staff, UCIT, UC Division of Governmental Relations and CSD. Education Computer Network Engineering Technology Cincinnati State Technical and Community College - Cincinnati, OH September 2004 to November 2008 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, CITRIX, CLUSTERING, EDIRECTORY, Vmware, Red Hat, System Admin, Linux, System Administrator, Redhat, Linux Administrator