Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Wasilla, AK Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Vistronix - Anchorage, AK May 2017 to Present 40+ hours/ week    • Maintained user accounts on a MS 2012 network supporting over 20000 users.  • Maintained a database work request queue and scheduled the request to completion and shifted priorities to those task that needed it most.  • Managed and completed projects from cradle to grave.    • Trained users on hardware and software using MS Office.  • Maintained back up for 2012 & 2016 servers and its data for the Alaska Area Office  • Pushed out and maintained updates for the Alaska Area Office computers.  • Provided excellent customer service Sr. Systems Network Administrator Alaska Mill and Feed February 2016 to April 2017 40+ hours/ week    • Maintained user accounts on a MS 2003 and cleaned up accounts in preparation to move to a newer server  • Conveyed and recorded acquired knowledge of unique situations in a way that was understandable in a teaching environment.  • Created new standards in orders and hardware profiles to save the company money while increasing performance of gear  • Managed and maintained DHCP, DNS, DFS, Email accounts, and AD for sections of the AGFS Domain.  • Provided excellent customer service    • Trained users on hardware and software using MS Office.  • Created new Policies and Procedures for order control and hardware profile management.  • Maintained back up for 2003 server and email accounts.  • Installed and maintained company anti-virus and web filtering software.  • Managed and completed projects from cradle to grave.  • Provided hardware and software solutions to save the company money IS Technician, Systems, and Server Administration NANA Development Corporation/Construction/Management Services July 2005 to November 2015 40+ hours/ week    • Maintained user accounts on a MS 2003/2008 network including Exchange supporting over 500 users.  • Conveyed and recorded acquired knowledge of unique situations in a way that was understandable in a teaching environment.  • Maintained a database work request queue and scheduled the request to completion and shifted priorities to those task that needed it most.  • Maintained and update software and hardware including remote areas in Alaska (North Slope and Red Dog Mine).  • Customized Operation System Image generation for multiple production environments.  • Created new standards in orders and hardware profiles to save the company money while increasing performance of gear.  • Core competence and experience in enterprise server hardware/software integration, maintenance and management  • Managed and maintained DHCP, DNS, DFS, and AD for sections of the NANA Domain.  • Troubleshot network issues and made sure that remote networks could get online and communicate with needed servers.    • Trained users on hardware and software using MS Office including Visio and Project.  • Provided different software options for useful operations.  • Created new Policies and Procedures for order control and hardware profile management.  • Maintained back up for several key 2003 and 2008 servers.  • Maintained and improved Order management, Software/Hardware procurement and inventory/deployment asset management protocols. That are still in operation currently.  • Installed and maintained company anti-virus software.  • Facilitated migration from existing telecommunications infrastructure to current VOIP system  • Deployed and maintained an AVAYA digital phone system for over 20 users.  • Assisted in the move of computers from physical locations and domains.  • Implemented Business Network Administration infrastructure management for operations connectivity, used Visio to processes diagrams.  • Provided excellent customer service Education Bachelor of Science DeVry University June 2005 Bachelor of Science Charter College General Studies University of Anchorage Alaska - Anchorage, AK Skills Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, exchange, Customer Service