Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator II - YAKAMA NATION Zillah, WA Work Experience Systems Administrator YAKAMA NATION - Toppenish, WA January 2014 to July 2017 Responsible for providing the introduction, support, and periodic upgrading of equipment and information systems. Assisted in projects required to support overall tribal operations, which include the Local Area Network, enrollment, and various systems specific to the various programs within the Yakama Tribe. Other duties include support and maintenance of all servers and/or computer systems utilized by all tribal enterprises/departments using VMWare virtualization hardware. When necessary planned for and responded to service outages and other unforeseen problems. Responsible for managing approximately 700+ user accounts through Microsoft Active Directory services. Solely responsible for backup and restoration of all servers and/or systems using Unitrends Backup Appliance. Also, maintained and managed the Cisco Unified Communications IP Telephone System, Unity Voicemail Server and Microsoft Exchange 2017 email server. Managed Cisco Meraki Wireless and Network equipment Systems Administrator II YAKAMA NATION LEGENDS CASINO - Toppenish, WA June 2006 to January 2014 Responsible for providing the introduction, support, and periodic upgrading of equipment and information systems. Assisted in projects required to support overall casino operations, which include the Local Area Network, POS, and gaming systems. Other duties include support and maintenance of all servers and/or computer systems utilized by all casino employees. When necessary planned for and responded to service outages and other unforeseen problems. Responsible for managing approximately 250+ user accounts through Microsoft Active Directory services. Solely responsible for backup and restoration of all servers and/or systems using Unitrends Backup Appliance. Also, maintain Laserfiche document management system server, client computers and user accounts. Manage Cisco Unified Communications IP Telephone System, Unity Voicemail Server and Microsoft Exchange 2010 email server, Barracuda Spam and Virus Firewall, and iPrism Web Filtering Appliance. Responsible for most user accounts and passwords in both gaming and non-gaming systems. Digital Surveillance Technician YAKAMA NATION - Toppenish, WA June 2005 to June 2006 Responsible for the daily monitoring and maintenance of all Gaming Commission surveillance systems, including all hardware and software components. Systems include, but are not limited to, the NICE digital surveillance system, the CCTV system, and proximity access control systems utilized to secure the gaming operation(s). Also responsible for the installation of all CCTV equipment. Computer Technician HERITAGE UNIVERSITY - Toppenish, WA June 2004 to June 2005 Working as a system administrator for Sun Microsystems workstations located on campus. Also worked with Natural Resources program analyzing data using GIS software to determine exact territorial locations of various vegetation within the boundaries of the Yakama Indian Reservation. Office Assistant III YAKAMA NATION - Toppenish, WA July 1997 to August 2000 Assisted orchard operations with hiring of new employees, purchasing of new equipment, inventory of all equipment, and time keeping duties for all Orchard personnel. Also, assisted with various fruit harvests when in season, and supervised seasonal fruit harvest employees. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Heritage University - Toppenish, WA January 2001 to May 2005 Computer Information Systems Haskell Indian Nations University - Lawrence, KS August 1996 to May 1997 Computer Information Systems Little Big Horn College - Crow Agency, MT September 1995 to March 1996 HS Diploma Hardin High School - Hardin, MT September 1989 to May 1993 Skills System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory