Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Cedar Springs, MI Work Experience Systems Administrator Craigs Cruisers - Wyoming, MI February 2018 to Present Here at Craigs Cruisers, I'm a self-starter and I lead the technology department across 4 locations.  Providing excellent customer support for both staff and customers. Excelling to make the business  more efficient and profitable with technology solutions. I take care of and maintain the servers, networking, games and diagnose new issues each and every day. Level 2 technician and Customer Service Representitive Genius Phone Repair June 2016 to 2018 At genius phone repair I was mainly a technician repairing various types of devices. I would diagnose and find a solution for each devices problem. I provided customer support along with sales. Technician and Customer Service Representitive Geek Worx November 2015 to March 2016 Diagnosed and repaired computers and laptops trying to find the best cost-effective solution for customers Education Associates in Web Development in Web Development Grand Rapids Community College June 2020 Kent Career/Technical Center in Information Technology Grand Rapids, MI August 2015 to May 2017 Cedar Springs High School 2013 to 2017 Skills Customer support, Networking, System administration, Tcp/ip, Virtualization, Vmware, Linux, System Administrator Additional Information Skills    Customer Support  Provided customer support in a business set up as well as a consumer-friendly  community. Diagnosing issues and solving problems to satisfy the customer/staff  member    System Administration  Operated various operating systems, All Windows 98 through Windows 10 and  some Linux distributions(Ubuntu, Rasbian, Kali). Providing security, maintenance,  and support    Remote Support and OS  Virtualization Used remote support through platforms of Teamviewer, Logmein and Windows  Remote Manager to help solve various issues. I also have built many safe virtual OS  environments to recreate client issues to find the solution through software like  VMWare, VMBox and Virtual Workstation.    Networking  LAN and WAN Configuration, OSI model Troubleshooting, TCP/IP Model