Systems Administrator III <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> III Systems Administrator - Leidos District Heights, MD My background ranges from serving as a customer service associate to working in IT dealing with both call-centers and various computer systems. Currently I’m working as a Systems Administrator III dealing with server changes/migrations, McAfee enforcement, and AD implementations.    Previously I was working with Government Officials at the HUD OIG location in Washington DC as a Systems Administrator. Some of my duties there was working in Active Directory, Performing Software Updates, Completing Help Desk Tickets, and Ensuring workstation/server data integrity. In my position, I demonstrated the ability to resolve a variety of issues and complaints (such as Oracle issues, service interruptions, repair technician, and the ability to set up VPN’s for multiple coworkers to be able to remote in when not in office). I consistently met my workload by achieving daily goals, setting new ones for other coworkers, and coming up with quality assistance regimes. I am also versed in using Java, with some background in C++, Python, and working on changes in the Network.    In addition to these experiences, I’ve gained considerable customer service skills during my last 8 years of employment in helping clients get the information they needed in a timely manner.  With that, I also bring to the table strong computer proficiencies outside of IT in Microsoft Office Suite, Adobe Photoshop, and setting up and using Virtual Machines (VM). Please see the accompanying resume for details of my experience and education.    Ultimately I'm willing, wanting, and able to learn and grow in any environment. I love challenges, and is someone who isn't scared to ask for help when is needed and want to become part of an awesome hardworking team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator III ActioNet - Herndon, VA January 2018 to Present Installed, configured, updated, and maintained Microsoft (MS) Windows servers in a large, complex environment. Successfully led major Migration of Windows 7 to Windows 10 project.    Performed and monitored Tier-3 incident, request, changes and problem management via Service Now, to keep track of tasks, escalations, issues, and resolutions.    Addressed and rectified server problems while working with Microsoft, Dell and other vendors as necessary.    Maintained and upgraded automated scripts for application products to facilitate operational tasks.    Tested and deployed software updates and security patches to core infrastructure\servers.    Installed rack-mounted IT equipment, power, and network cabling.    Modified and managed Active Directory components for all users of the corporate LAN/WAN.    Effectively leads a small team of Tier 2 Help Desk Technicians while actively mentoring interns. Systems Administrator Leidos - Chevy Chase, MD November 2016 to December 2017 Created and adhered to a Systems Development Life Cycle phase.    Delivered 24/7 back-end support for a major multi-tenant cloud computing operation in Fairfax Azure.    Created, and maintained a training technical document/TSG for new hires.    Initiated, contacted, and maintained Live Site Bridges with other technical teams; to troubleshoot and resolve issues.    Helped facilitate and administer restricted access for privileged actions.     Created and maintained Users, Groups, and Resources using Admin Center in Office 365.    Helped purchase and cancel subscriptions in Admin Center 365, as well as ran the reports on emails use and office activation.    Rotated and Updated Service Account Passwords.    Evaluated and resolved server issues under a certain KPI, and directed workforce resources where needed.    Administered hot-fixes, and OS upgrades on Windows 8 machines to Windows 10.    Installed and configured Windows 10 VM’s on select local Secure Admin Workstations by using Hyper-V Manager.     Remoted into physical Servers on Windows 2012 R2 OS to perform upgrades and run SQL deployments in powershell. Systems Administrator STG Inc at HUD OIG - Washington, DC June 2016 to November 2016 Ensured data/media recoverability by implementing a schedule of system backups and database archive operations.    Performed cross platform audits of Active Directory (AD) objects and user permissions.    Created Organizational Units, User Accounts, Groups, and assigned NTFS permissions in AD.    Installed, configured, and maintained operating system workstations and servers; including web servers, in physical and a virtual (VMWare) environment products.    Helped create VM's on a ESXi server while doing the installation of Windows 7/8/10, and Red Hat Linux; as well as the customizing of guest operating systems.    Upgraded the VMWare tools, and VM's hardware on all the VM's as part of an Upgrade process.    Performed complex software installations and upgrades to operating systems and layered software packages; as well as scheduled them with established IT policies and procedures.    Monitored and tuned Windows 7, and 10 and Mac OSX 10.11, and 10.12 to achieve optimum performance.    Provided Tier III Help Desk support, when needed.    Documented all inquiry activities in the appropriate reporting system using Salesforce.    Worked the Help Desk providing PC and Mobile support, diagnosing, troubleshooting and resolving client issues with hardware maintenance, installations and upgrades. Sample Specialist Healthstream Inc - Laurel, MD August 2012 to March 2016 Helped with the onboarding process of getting clients familiar with setting up and using FTP servers(Filezilla) as well as how to use Web uploads.    Proved success working in a high-volume, technical call center; by demonstrating strengths in rapidly diagnosing, troubleshooting and resolving client issues.    Installed, repaired, maintained, and upgraded Windows 7, and 8 desktops as well as Windows notebook computers.    Efficiently and correctly handled multiple clients and systems simultaneously.    Implemented and oversaw changes made in Oracle, and our SQL server to keep different tasks running smoothly.    Facilitated installing VPN clients (Cisco AnyConnect) into the company’s network laptops, as well as the company’s network.    Worked with a team to implement and oversee policy and security changes in our Network, while also doing weekly vulnerability tests on it using Wireshark and Nessus.    Frequently maintained logs on daily tasks and schedules. it/facilities S.A.I.C - Columbia, MD April 2010 to February 2012 Serviced computers and networks:  ? Upgraded/Downgraded various Windows OS (7, 8)  ? Resolved customer software issues.  ? Initiated various troubleshoot practices for network problems between application, database and interface servers.    Did Trouble Service Ticketing for various co-workers in building    Coordinated weekly Status updates with team, as well as made the necessary requirements to deliver and maintain a certain level of proficiency with getting information to admins.    Helped facilitate as well as escort vendors/companies that came in a timely and professional manner. Education Computer Science Degree in Network Security Bowie State University - Bowie, MD May 2016 Diploma Arundel Senior High School - Hanover, MD June 2009 Skills Adobe Photoshop (Less than 1 year), FTP (3 years), Oracle (3 years), SQL (3 years), training (Less than 1 year), Active Directory (6 years), Cloud Computing (3 years) Additional Information Responsible, motivated, and have the drive to persevere through any task at hand. Have substantial experience in customer service, customer relations, computer technology and an overall good background in dealing with others.    SKILLS  Azure, Microsoft Office, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Adobe Photoshop, Java, Oracle, SQL, Coding using C++(Notepad, Virtual Studio), Windows/Linux Operating Systems, Penetration Testing, Active Directory, Patching, OS Upgrades, Ticketing Systems, Helpdesk, SDLC, VMWare, Computer Backups(Symantec), TCP/IP, HTML, Training Curriculum Development, FTP Server