Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Work Experience Systems Administrator Artisan Technology Group April 2014 to May 2019 Ran tier 3 support for server clusters running multiple operating systems, including Windows Server 2008R2 -2012R2 - 2016  ? Planned and completed a domain migration from Windows Server 2008 R2 to server 2016  ? Managed medium size storage solution using Windows Storage Spaces and S2D to provide NAS and SAN services  ? Regularly engage with other departments to find ways to leverage IT systems and custom programs and scripts as a force multiplier allowing sales to increase their weekly number of contacts by an estimated 30%  ? Helped shipping customize their CMR system to allow for better tracking of warehouse inventory and to more efficiently ship out merchandise  ? Helped develop a custom data mining system to allow our purchasing department to more efficiently determine what customers were buying. This allowed them to cut out items that they were previously purchasing and to add inventory that increased sales by an estimated $500,000 over the course of the year  ? Designed and coded a custom dashboard monitoring system utilizing C# and PowerShell. Leveraging WMI and application API calls to monitor not only server stats but service and application status Web Developer Intrinsic Design October 2017 to June 2018 I ran a website consultation firm focusing on quality design and intuitive UI development.  ? Worked with several others to provide multi-media solutions to small and medium side businesses. Utilized SEO and custom videography and 3D design to enhance the online presence and local media advertising  ? This generated an increase in sales leads for both companies that we consulted for during this period and resulted in an uptick in both traffic and profitability Tactical Data Specialist United States Marine Corps June 2004 to June 2008 Started as part of a deployed help desk system containing over 3000 users on 4 separate networks from 6 different countries. We provided user support and ran all LAN cables  ? 2006 - Promoted to dealing exclusively with server side issues. Managed DNS, Exchange, and several encrypted transmission networks  ? 2007 - Eventually became in charge of a platoon of 30 managing both training and operations. This involved network and firewall training as well as project management for future deployments and all tasks necessary to prepare for such  ? 2008 - Ran all network and server operations for one of the largest multi-national joint military operations up until that point (50 servers, 3500 users, 4 separate networks)  ? Developed an inventory management system that cut down the time required to inventory all equipment from 16 hours to 5 hours. Education Molecular and Cellular Biology University of Illinois January 2010 to May 2013 General education Parkland Community College June 2008 to November 2009 Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C#, Exchange, Python, Scripting, Solr, Active directory, Dns, Puppet, Apache solr, Solr, Dfs, Ldap, Optimization, Systems administration, Sql server, Postgres, Sql, Search engine, System Administrator, Linux, System Admin, Linux Administrator Links http://Linkedin.com/in.aaron.bryant