Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II - K-Flex USA LLC Wake Forest, NC I have over 20 years of increasing IT experience. The last 12 have been in Systems Administration. I achieved a Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer certification in 2004 with a secondary focus on Exchange Server. I have experience with current virtualization platforms, have designed, and implemented multiple server infrastructure projects. I have acquired network-engineering skills through necessity and am confident in designing and maintaining modern networks. I am motivated to apply my skills and improve them when necessary to accomplish your organization’s IT goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator II K-Flex USA LLC - Youngsville, NC 2006 to Present Management of Windows Server infrastructure, network infrastructure and Windows user devices. Procurement of IT equipment for users and projects. Management of backups, server maintenance, support contracts and server life cycle. Management of network provisioning, wiring contractor and end-point connection.    Major technologies used: Windows Server (2003 – 2016), Exchange, Citrix Xen, VMware vSphere, HP Blade Servers, NetApp SAN, Lenovo Servers, IBM SAN, Barracuda Appliances, Cisco switches, Cisco ASA firewall, Juniper switches, Multi-mode and Single-mode fiber    Major projects worked on:  2008 – Worked with a team to split the company into two separate entities with K-Flex USA needing new, separate IT infrastructure.  2011 – Designed and implemented a Citrix VDI infrastructure using HP blade servers and a NetApp SAN.  2017 – Implemented a VMware vSphere infrastructure using Lenovo servers and a IBM Storwize SAN. Deployed a Windows Server RDS environment as new VDI solution. IT Manager Coastal Capital Markets LLC - Wilmington, NC 2000 to 2006 Managed Windows Server infrastructure, network infrastructure and Windows user devices. Procurement of IT equipment.    Major technologies used: Windows Server (NT4 – 2003), Exchange, HP DL servers, Cisco switches/routers, Point-to-point VPN tunnels, Cisco PIX firewall (Access Control Lists)    Major projects worked on:  Expansion of Wilmington based Coastal Discount Stockbrokers main office.  Opening of and connection of four branch offices (NC, SC & FL) to Wilmington based main office via PTP VPN. IT Support Technician Hooks Systems LLC - Wilmington, NC 1996 to 2000 Responded to per-call and contract customer's requests for technology support. Supported a wide variety of customers including International Paper, US Steel, municipal governments and police departments.    Major technologies used: Windows Server (NT3.5 – 2000), Novell Netware, Cisco switches Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, Exchange Server, Citrix, Cisco switching/routing, Cisco firewall