Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Cimarron, KS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator United Telephone Association, Inc - Dodge City, KS November 2005 to August 2019 Managed all aspects of United's systems. Designed and managed United's VMware environment, Vmware View, Windows domain, Veeam backup, and applications. Managed all aspects of United's network infrastructure. Setup and deployed United's fiber to the premise Calix products. Provided linux administration, web design. Designed telecommunications backhaul solutions. Setup Metaswitch VMware environment and tested business groups for hosted pbx. Migrated all of United's corporate email to Office 365. Provided desktop application support to all United's employees. IT Field Technician Palace Computers - Garden City, KS October 2003 to November 2005 Provided IT support to over 100 business in Southwest Kansas. Maintain and deployed Microsoft based networks for various businesses in Southwest Kansas. Troubleshoot and fix laser printers. Help customers with repairs and options. Build and configure computers in-house, Microsoft OEM retailer. IT Internship St. Catherine Hospital - Garden City, KS July 2003 to October 2003 Work included maintaining a Microsoft based network. Configured computers and phones for users. Troubleshot all hardware, software, and printer problems. Technician RC Telecom - Greeley, CO July 2001 to February 2002 Installed and programmed PBX systems, including 3Com NBX 100 VoIP, Lucent Partner and Definity systems. Installed computer networks, including wireless. Terminated multi and single mode fiber. Troubleshot problems using Microtest cable testers. Did most work in banks and in Banner Health Care facilities around the Greeley area. Technician Network Integration Design - Denver, CO January 2001 to June 2001 Installed CAT6 and fiber backbones for Con Agra plants around the nation, including the new corporate building in Greeley, CO. Terminated fiber by polishing and using 3M hot melt connectors and SIECOR fan out kits. Troubleshot network problems using Wavetek cable testers. Installed racks, cable tray, and conduit. Technician C & L Communications - Garden City, KS August 1997 to August 2000 Installed CAT5 and fiber in local hospital and other area jobs. Troubleshot network problems using LanCat cable testers. Terminated 66 and 110 style punch blocks and patch panels. Installed racks, cable tray, and conduit in commercial and industrial buildings. Education Cisco Networking Academy in Cisco Netwoking Garden City Community College - Garden City, KS 2002 to 2004 Communications Technology in Telecommunications Northwest Kansas Technical College - Goodland, KS High school or equivalent in General Garden City High School - Garden City, KS Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, Red Hat, Linux, Linux Administrator, Web Design, Microsoft Office, WAN, LAN, Cisco, L2VPN, L3VPN, MPLS, Switching, Routing, Comptia, Information Technology, Desktop Support, Network Support, Computer Repair, Office 365, FTTH, FTTP, Calix, Azure, Sharepoint, Metaswitch Additional Information ComTIA Network+  CompTIA A+  Have completed various Global Knowledge trainings.   Nimble Storage certificate.