Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - MIS CONSULTING Port Saint Lucie, FL I'm a experienced and highly knowledgeable Enterprise IT Professional seeking to contribute training and technical skills within a thriving bleeding edge environment. In-depth knowledge in Troubleshooting, Installations, Infrastructure upgrades & Enterprise IT management. Easily able to identify, adapt and resolve technical issues and concerns. With great customer services comes excellent communication and presentation capabilities. Work Experience Systems Administrator MIS CONSULTING - Stuart, FL 2018 to Present • Currently with MIS I work as a systems administrator supporting 100+ Clients, 1,500+ Users located over 250+ Locations Nationwide. We support a variety of Small/Medium businesses, Non-Profits, Charities & Churches.    • Jobs duties include but are not limited to User Requests, Support Tickets, Documentation, Consulting, Network cable wiring, Server Maintenance, Hardware/Software refreshes, Cloud Support & Migrations, Phone Systems implementations/Support and Backups. Assist clients with configurations and administration of Office 365 applications including Word, Excel, Outlook, Power Point, One Note & Skype for Business.    • Current Projects consist of E-mail migrations from On-Premise Exchange to O365 (Office & Exchange online) or Google G-Suite. Server migrations from Server 2008-2012 to cloud architectures (Azure/AWS/Google), Network infrastructure installs & upgrades (Routers, Modems, WatchGuard Firewalls, Netgear/Cisco Switches), Phone system installs. Systems Engineer OFFICE DEPOT - Boca Raton, FL 2016 to 2018 • During my time at Office Depot I worked under the Supply Chain side of the business. My team and I were responsible for supporting 150+ Warehouses, Distribution Centers and Business Sales locations across the United States, Puerto Rico & Canada.    • Daily tasks included Ticket resolutions, Documentation, New infrastructure Design/Planning while working with a number of teams to roll out deployments of all the business-critical hardware/software needed to run the supply chain operations.    • I worked on a number of infrastructure upgrade projects while at Office Depot. My main responsibilities during these projects consisted of Designing, Building, Configuring and Installing new infrastructure equipment to new locations or conversion sites. This included racking, wiring, installing and configuring HP ProLiant Gen8,9,10 Servers Running ESX 5.5-6.5, Cisco ISR Routers, Cisco Catalyst switches, Cisco/Motorola Access Points and Dell EMC storage array technologies (Unity300 Hybrid/VNXe3300). Sr. IT Support Manager AdvancedBits - Boca Raton, FL 2015 to 2016 • While with AdvancedBits I was the Sr. IT Support Manager, I managed a team of 10-15 highly skilled IT Professionals that supported 40+ Clients (World Wide), 500+ Servers, 1,500+ Workstations and the assortment of Business critical IT hardware (Routers, Firewalls, Switches, Access Points, Printers, Mobile Devices, POS Systems and Phone Systems)    • During my time as the Sr. IT Support Manager I worked on a number of projects from Corporate Cleanup (On-site), Office 365 Email Migrations, Network upgrades, Point of Sale Install/Upgrades, Hardware Refreshes, Software Refreshes, Office Moves and Remote management.    • Execute, manage and lead Office 365 migrations for our 40+ clients (Small to Enterprise businesses clients 10-500 Users), 2,500+ users total. Troubleshoot and customize Office 365 applications including Word, Excel, One Note, Skype for Business, Outlook, Power Point & Access. Assisted clients with configurations, updates and day to day operations within Office 365 (Exchange, Skype for Business, SharePoint, Teams). Developed, analyzed and created Onboarding processes, procedures and documentation for Improving Office 365 Migrations. Technical Support Specialist III PIPER AIRCRAFT - Vero Beach, FL 2012 to 2015 ·      Responsible for supporting 700+ users and 1000+ assortment of desktops, laptops, thin clients, servers, switches, printers and mobile devices. Ensuring resolution of hardware/software related technical issues throughout the company. Responding to help desk requests in a timely manner.    ·      I assisted in troubleshooting and repairing hardware/software issues for local and remote users. Printer related problems, Configure, image and install PC’s, Wyse thin clients and raspberry Pi’s. Created and managed File share resources, Active Directory & Group Policy, restore files from backups, Identify and resolve network problems and provide network & PC hardware upgrades. Perform server maintenance, Support computer equipment attached to the manufacturing equipment.    ·      While at piper I was involved in the completion of a full LAN network infrastructure upgrade from old Intel 10/100 switches to HP Gigabit switches, Up-links and Fiber backbones (1 - 10 Gig), Windows XP to 7 OS upgrade, Supported ERP Upgrade, Development and Implementation from Baan IV to LN. Terminal server Migration from Windows Server 2003 to 2008/2012. Hardware refresh of desktops, laptops and printers. Replaced old S30 Wyse units with newer Ubuntu based T50 Wyse thin clients. Developed & Implemented 40+ Time clocking / Manufacturing parts scanner devices out of Linux based raspberry Pi’s. Technical Support Analyst II TBC CORPORATION - Juno Beach, FL 2010 to 2012 ·      Provided IT support for over 10,000+ devices and 3000+ retail, warehouse, and corporate locations nationwide. (Tire Kingdom, NTB, Merchants Tire, Carroll Tire, Midas and Big O Tire warehouse)    ·      Main job duties consist of dealing with the Corporate HQ and remote laptops. I repaired, replaced and fixed all hardware/software related issues. Assisted in the support and implementation of an ERP upgrade from AS400 to SAP. Helped with store technical support & Hardware/Software refreshes.  Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Security ITT Technical Institute - Davie, FL 2006 to 2010 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DNS, EXCHANGE, FIREWALLS, NETWORKING, System Administrator, System Admin, Linux, Vmware, Linux Administrator, Redhat, SCCM, Red Hat Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/Eddiecorbin Additional Information Skills  Software: Microsoft Office 365 (Office, Exchange Online, Skype for Business, OneDrive, SharePoint), Exchange (2007-2016), Hyper-V, VMware (ESXi 5.5-6.7, V-Center, V-Sphere), Active Directory/Azure AD  Remote Management Tools: SCCM (2007 & 2012), LANDesk, Wyse Desktop Management, Solar Winds MSP RMM, AutoTask Endpoint Management  Backup: Avamar, VEEAM, Acronis, Carbonite, Windows Server Backup  Hardware: Servers, Routers, Switches, Firewalls, PCs, Laptops, Printers, Thin Clients, Point-Of-Sales  Networking: LAN/WAN & VPN, TCP/IP, NAT/PAT, DNS, DHCP, BGP  Platforms: Windows (XP, 7, 8, 10) Server (2003-2019), Linux (RHEL/CentOS, Ubuntu, Kali), Mac OSX  Mobile: IOS, Android, Blackberry, Windows Mobile