Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator- County of San Luis Obispo Health Agency Atascadero, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator County of San Luis Obispo Health Agency July 2014 to Present Lead Specialist of the support team servicing 750 PC's at 18 locations providing day to day operational support to more  than 20 programs inside the Health Agency. Oversee hiring and training of new personnel, Mentor staff, Prioritization of incoming work, PC ordering and Accounting. Project Management, Implementation of SCCM ( System Center  Configuration Manger), Windows 10 deployment, 2 Factor Authentication, End Point Protection, and SIEM Security  Intelligence.    • Headed up the creation of consolidated service desk for the Health Agency. Hired and trained new staff,  Prioritization of new service tickets, Resource allocation to needed projects, Quality Assurance of services provided.  • Spear Headed and Adopted IT projects to further technology needs, Set up a SCCM instance for Agency,  created Windows 10 OS deployment tasks that installs over 30 pieces of software automatically based on software that preexist on PC. Converted Public Guardian software from older Cobalt to modern SQL.  Implementation of new End Point protection software. Piloted Security Intelligence appliance.  • Converted IT purchasing procedure from Purchase Requisition system, taking 4 to 6 weeks to receive  goods, to a Blanket PO system, taking 1 to 2 weeks to receive goods. Departmental Automation Specialist II County of San Luis Obispo Public Health March 2004 to July 2014 Support person for 255 PC at 13 locations, provided day to day operational support to 13 programs inside the Public  Health Department. Security of personnel Active Directory Accounts and Electronic Records, Server management,  Database management and Report Creation, Research and Recommend technology innovations for Departmental  needs. Supervise intern staff. Headed up a Departmental Support Group to share ideas across department IT support  staff.    • Supported 255+ PC's at 13 locations  • Facilitated relation between Department Administration and IT Department  • Researched and implemented a free computer remote control software (VNC)  • Converted from Novell Netware to Microsoft Active Directory Departmental Automation Specialist I County of San Luis Obispo Public Health August 2000 to March 2004 Part of a support team for 275 PC at 16+ locations, provided day to day operational support to 13 programs inside the  Public Health Department. Novell User and Endpoint administration. Access Database creation. Research and  Recommend technology innovations for Departmental needs. Supervise Intern Staff    • Implemented PC deployment, taking the department from 75 PC's to 275 PC's over two years.  • Creation of 5 databases, two that was used by departmental personnel for 15 years Education Bachelors of Information Technology in Information Technology in Computer Systems American Intercontinental University December 2004 Associates of Science Network Administrations Cuesta College June 1999