Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Hendersonville, NC Seeking a position that will utilize and grow my knowledge and skills in computer technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator General Electric - Flat Rock, NC August 2017 to Present Responsibilities include:     Installing and configuring software on computers in the main office and the manufacturing floor.    Hardware and software support on over 200 computers systems.    Documenting new process and configuration changes. Team Associate General Electric - Flat Rock, NC June 2015 to August 2017 Responsibilities included:    Following documentation to build lighting fixtures.    Final inspection and testing of lightning fixtures.    Keeping assembly line materials at appropriate levels. Customer Service Representative CPR Cell Phone Repair - Asheville, NC December 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities included:     Initial diagnostics and price quote on broken device.    Following up with customers throughout the repair process.     Keeping track of inventory. Wireless Sales Representative Verizon Wireless Retail Store May 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities included:    Opening and closing the store.    Taking bill payments (cash, debit/credit, & checks).    Responsible for counting inventory. Education Associate in Information Technology Blue Ridge Community College - Hendersonville, NC Skills Customer Service Skills (2 years), System Administrator, System Admin Assessments Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/chqswqrx6zvkvrrj Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zczijncw31pvnnai Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Currently working on obtaining the CCNA routing and switching certification.