Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Aiken, SC Work Experience Systems Administrator Aiken Electric Cooperative - Aiken, SC March 2017 to Present 1.) Works with Cooperative personnel and the SEDC vendor to diagnose and resolve users’ problems with Accounting, Consumer, and Capital Credit systems.  2.) Research, construct, and generate detailed reports for Management to use with trouble shooting, forecasting, and planning.   3.) Active directory structure including creating, changing, and deleting user accounts per request.  4.) Provides onsite and remote support for hardware and communications to Pay Stations and Kiosks.  5.) Maintains SEDC servers, generates SEDC specific reports, runs end-of-the-year accounting and database processes, allocations, retirement, donated capital, and abandoned property process. Power Distribution Dispatcher Aiken Electric Cooperative - Aiken, SC December 2013 to March 2017 1.) Dispatches field units to handle service interruptions, meter connects and disconnects, and any other field services, as necessary.   2.) Maintains constant monitoring of all communications in the field between units and stations.  3.) Monitors SCADA System for alarms indicating system disturbances. Issue commands through SCADA system as directed by Cooperative personnel to provide maximum safety to personnel and the public.  4.) Create work orders, runs reports, and enters data for various departments as needed. RedMan ASRC Federal - Charleston, SC February 2013 to December 2013 Role-players are charged with assisting in the instruction of Federal Law  Enforcement Officer's by performing a role from a script based scenario. Some of these roles require me to act in a combative role for various physical training  exercises and other rigorous activities such as being handcuffed, frisked,  tackled, struck by (rubber) baton, and shot at by simulated rounds from a pistol. The scenarios can take place in classrooms, dry docked boats or shoot  houses. This was a part time position. Emergency Medical Technician - Intermediate Charleston County EMS May 2008 to December 2013 Administer first-aid treatment and life-support care to sick or injured persons in a pre-hospital setting. Perform emergency diagnostic and treatment  procedures, such as airway management and heart monitoring, while en route to a hospital. Assess' the nature and extent of illness or injury to establish  and prioritize medical procedures. Maintain vehicles, medical and radio  communication equipment, as well as replenish first-aid equipment and supplies. Observe, record, and report to the nurse's and physician's the  patient's condition or injury, the treatment provided, and reactions to drugs and treatment. Education Master's Degree in Management/Project Management Colorado State University 2015 to 2017 Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration and Management The Citadel 2001 to 2005 Skills System Administrator, System Admin Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/matthew