Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Decatur, TN Work Experience Systems Administrator July 2018 to Present Implemented a clustered hosting virtual machine environment with Windows Server 2016  and Hyper-V.  • Virtual machines are backed up using Microsoft Data Protection Manager.  • Migrated domain controllers, DHCP, and DNS to virtual environment.  • Assistance in troubleshooting manufacturing machines on and off network  • Day to day user assistance tickets Storm Power Components - Decatur, TN October 2010 to Present ERP Administrator February 2017 to June 2018 Focus on administering ERP system. Syspro.    • Successfully implemented security roles in Syspro. These roles limit access down to individual programmatic levels in the system.  • Extensive data cleanup. Years' worth of old and bad data cleaned up and/or purged. Information Technology Manager October 2015 to February 2017 Expanded leadership role to maintaining key business applications, budgets, and systems. Partner  with senior leadership to guide short- and long-range technology planning. Serve as vital resource for Help Desk staff and development staff, overseeing daily support operations and providing  assistance on complex trouble tickets. Cultivate and maintain relationships with IT vendors.    • Oversaw major upgrade to our core systems including ERP and supporting third party  applications as well as extensive database conversions.  • Managed both systems and development staff to implement several development projects  ranging from disturbance to flow reporting on manufacturing floor to extensive reporting and scheduling applications.  • Successfully completed two Microsoft SAM audits and one BSA audit with no negative  outcomes. Information Technology Help Desk Manager February 2013 to February 2015 Maintained record low-level of support tickets allowing Desk Support to focus on proactive  support solutions rather than having to be reactive. Providing this environment allowed one of my team to migrate from help desk to a development position.  • Spearheaded new Help Desk documentation procedures, developing a comprehensive  knowledge base of common issues and solutions to improve Help Desk efficiency.  • Completed several project management curricula for certification. Information Technology Help Desk Technician August 2011 to February 2013 • Worked tier 1 helpdesk issues.  • Specified and implemented the SharePoint ticketing system with a developer. Denso Manufacturing - Athens, TN March 2007 to August 2010 Performed troubleshooting, repair, and maintenance of computer systems, hardware, peripherals, and telephony. Analyzed system requirements to efficiently isolate and resolve a wide array of  technical issues.    • Participated in large-scale upgrades and installations.  • Extensive training in Kaizen and Safety  • Considerable knowledge of manufacturing workflow processes Education certificate TN College of Applied Technology Networking Specialist Skills ERP, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION, DATA PROTECTION, HYPER-V, SHAREPOINT, EXCHANGE, DATA BACKUP, SQL, STRATEGIC PLANNING, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, POWERPOINT, WORD, WINDOWS XP