Systems Administrator (FSR) (02/24/2014 to Present) <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (FSR) (02/24/2014 to Present) Systems Administrator Hephzibah, GA Highly versatile IT Administrator with 18 years of experience maintaining computers, servers and network devices on classified and non-classified networks. Provided INSCOM communications support for over a 100 systems and applications. Configured and troubleshot tactical and commercial infrastructure devices, TACLANEs, Modems; Radios and associated equipment. Trained over 600 IT Managers on transmission systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator (FSR) (02/24/2014 to Present) UltiSat, Inc - Augusta, GA February 2014 to Present Responsibilities  Responsible for network and communications support for the ARST PED  facility, including maintenance and configuration of MAAS systems, NetApp storage systems, PEDsystems, Windows based workstations and servers, IP routers, Ethernet switches, tactical radios, SATCOM systems, network setup and configuration, and COMSEC and crypto management. Information Technology Specialist US Army Reserve - Augusta, GA April 2013 to Present Plan, supervise, coordinate, and provide technical assistance for the installation, operation, system analyst functions of a medium network. Responsible for the support of personal computers over their complete life cycle to include setup/ configuration, software installation and assistance, troubleshooting, and maintenance for a variety of administrative systems. Respond to requests from users with data communications problems, such as failure to transmit data or inability to print to network printers. Utilized Remedy to track and submit trouble tickets in a Technical Control Facility facilitating the resolution of user technical problems. Created and maintained user accounts in Active Directory and mail accounts in Exchange. Commended by managers and peers as the resident expert on the network operations suite used to monitor connectivity, traffic, and security of the tactical network. Used Norton Ghost to image 75 machines to ensure their compliance with network policies as part of an organization's life cycle plan resulting in improved productivity. Network Administrator NOVA Corporation - Augusta, GA April 2013 to September 2013 Network administrator of the Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange (CENTRIX) Network, a classified local and wide area network providing voice and data communications for over 5000 users, using switching and routing technologies. Generated network monitoring and performance reports for LAN/WANs utilization studies. Implemented network administration with current technologies in a classified environment in accordance with DISA STIGs. Remotely managed and configured network devices, troubleshot BGP, OSPF, and other routing protocols, Cisco 2800 Series Routers and 3560 Series Switches; VPN concentrators, Cisco 5510 Firewalls, and TACLANE KG-250s, KG-175s COMSEC Devices. Maintained Cisco Unified Communication Manager Version 8 with 7940 Series IP Phones for VoIP communications; utilized CA Spectrum version 9 for network monitoring and management. Communications Switch Systems Supervisor US Army - Augusta, GA June 2001 to April 2013 Worked directly on communications devices and equipment that communicated through more than one channel. Responsible for the installation, repair, operation and maintenance check of these devices, antennae and associated equipment. Supervised the installation, operation, and performance of unit level maintenance on multichannel line-of-site and tropospheric scatter communications systems, antennas and associated equipment. Analyzed BIT/BITE diagnostics to isolate faults to the Lowest Replaceable Unit. Installed, operated, and performed preventive maintenance checks and services, and unit level maintenance on communications security devices. Operated and performed Preventive Maintenance Checks and Services on assigned vehicles and power generators. Requested logistical support, and prepared input for statistical and other operational reports. Engineered and maintained the first SNAP 3T Tropospheric Terminal in support of overseas operations. Training and expertise resulted in consistent praise for team providing flawless and reliable communications. Education Associates in Computer Networking Augusta Technical College - Augusta, GA Skills System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory, Linux Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SSG Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ July 2012 to July 2021 CompTIA Network+ July 2012 to July 2021 CompTIA Security+ July 2012 to July 2021 LPI Linux Essentials August 2019 to Present Additional Information • Top Secret with SCI Security Clearance  • Exam 70-410 Installing and Configuring Windows Server 2012 R2  • Exam MD-100 Windows 10  • DISA ACAS Trained