Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Buckhorn Inc Work Experience Systems Administrator Buckhorn Inc January 2019 to Present • 0365 administration, email creation, office license administration  • DHCP administration, set reservations for devices within defined scopes  • Aruba network administration, manage Buckhorn's wireless and wired network, upgraded entire network from Cisco to Aruba solution with the help of an Aruba specialist.  • IT equipment researcher and purchaser for Buckhorn  • Implemented technical standards for Buckhorn, identified standard equipment for deployment across the environment.  • Managed and implemented the deployment of Microsoft Teams across the organization to close the communication gap.  • Implemented technological solutions across the organization to help with safety and security.  • Managed the upgrade of the security system including, new cameras across the environment, new card readers on doors for physical control.  • Identified and resolved infrastructure connectivity gaps within the environment ensuring the used rooms are all networked.  • Managed the deployment of new Xerox multifunction devices across the organization.  • Managed the revival of MATTEC solution, ensured all press's were communicating with the MATTEC system, worked with Epicor to setup voice and email alerts with the system.  • Identified low-cost high-performance solutions for conference rooms to take full advantage of the Microsoft Teams meetings solutions.  • Experience working with IBM as400 environment managing users and devices to work with the ERP system in place.  • Experience working within lotus notes for user management  • Implemented work flow for technical issues for users to assist with self-resolution.  • Responsible for all new user creations, Active directory accounts as well as email accounts for the users.  • Responsible for day to day technical issue that users experience, software and hardware. Systems Executive One Call Care Management June 2018 to January 2019 • Manage day to day hardware and software issues for local Springfield location  • Tier 3 assistance for helpdesk on remote issues  • Manage O365 user migrations from OnPrem solution  • Manage license assignments within Exchange Admin O365  • Write technical documentation for solutions for level 1 and level 2 technicians to follow  • Setup and configure Print logic solution for secure printing at facilities  • Use tenable to find vulnerabilities and patch using SCCM  • Manage RSA token assignments for VPN access  • Helped implement MFA solution for VPN access  • Attend meetings for process improvement for our level one support  • Completed large project of moving 1400 users off of IBM Maas360 solution to MS Intune and O365 solution for mobile devices. Team Lead for Tier Cognizant Technology Solutions October 2016 to June 2018 2 Desktop Support at 7 sites    • Manage installs of new computers and software for multiple locations.  • Manage the ticket assignment for my sites.  • Keep technicians on track with meeting SLA requirements in our group for tickets.  • Run daily reports for my sites and ensure tickets are updated daily and being addressed.  • Assist technicians for my sites as team lead in ensuring tickets are closed in a timely manner.  • Participate in daily management meetings for ticket review for my assigned sites as team lead.  • Report to management with ticket quotas for assigned sites and address concerns with quality, and work flow of tickets.  • Review and create knowledge / training documents for tier 2 technicians  • Assist with unlocking user accounts in active directory.  • Work with multiple teams when shop floor down issues arise to ensure production does not stop.  • Work with teams to ensure all procedures are followed when requesting / installing new software.  • Assist users with Wireless and Wired barcode scanners  • Address printer issues for shop floor and office users  • Ensure proper escalation of tickets from helpdesk  • Manage all incoming new hardware for three John Deere Facilities  • Training new technicians to perform day to day activities during large projects  • Responsible for inventory tracking of local devices  • PC hardware installations, hard drives, CD-ROM drives, video cards, etc.  • Perform repairs, maintenance and troubleshooting on Windows machines  • Installation, diagnostics and troubleshooting for desktop software and hardware including peripheral devices  • Smart hands for networking issues when they arise Technical Support Analyst I DISYS February 2016 to September 2016 6 month contract with Expedia    • Use SQL query's to research data within SQL databases, in order to solve problems with bookings, rates, and anything property related.  • Ticket Coordinator, ensure proper escalation of tickets and alerts, and correct assignment of priority  • Ensure customer and co-worker responses are meeting quality assurance of professionalism  • Work daily reports for partners and failed notifications to ensure delivery of booking notifications from Expedia  • Customer service working with hotel properties and resolving software issues. Device Administrator Cerner Corporation October 2014 to December 2015 • Manage installs for Cox Health Systems of computers and related equipment  • Build and install new computers / laptops  • Troubleshoot Hardware issues with computers and printers  • Troubleshoot software issues with Cerner applications and Microsoft applications  • Manage a high volume of support and install calls in a timely manner.  • Manage calls in Track IT and Remedy ticketing systems  • Assist with the deployment of the new tower and moving multiple units to the new tower  • Troubleshoot network issues LAN / Wireless  • Assist with training employees with new technology when it is deployed  • Troubleshoot issues with iPad devices and Citrix applications  • Install a high volume of refresh computers to all locations  • Setup MFD devices on the network for multiple users and fix printer scripts  • Assist with adding software to the SharePoint site for easy deployment of software and drivers  • Change out motherboards, power supply's, RAM, and other hardware within a PC/ Laptop  • Experience with Remedy, and TrackIT call ticketing systems Desktop support technician Central Technology Services May 2012 to October 2014 Lead technician    • Managed the migration from Windows XP to Windows 7 on bank computers  • Managed all local Cisco switches / port access / vlan changes / configuration  • Assist with help desk phone, and email average 200 - 300 calls per month  • Diagnosed and resolved Microsoft Office 2010, & 2013 issues  • Setup users in Active Directory, added required security and email distribution groups  • Created new printer security groups for locations within Active directory  • Edited users email storage quotas in Exchange 2010 management console  • Create and manage calls using ticketing software, Epicor ITSM 2009  • Patched VA issues on Windows Server 2008 R2 server and MS Server 2003  • Added network printers onto Server 2008 / 2008R2 for client computer access  • Setup Group policy settings and apply fixes to the settings on XP, and Windows 7  • Assisted users with DIGI Pass token access and installs onto iPhones and Windows OS  • Setup Apple products such as iPhone and iPad, and assisted users with Exchange email connections on the devices  • Created user accounts using AirWave Management Platform for managing WIFI access  • Creating / restoring back up images of servers using VMware vSphere Web Client  • Performed conversions of entire new teller system hardware at each location  • Performed BIOS lock downs on ATM machines  • Managed local server / virtual servers, performed maintenance, updates, and installs 2008R2 and Server 2012  • Installed new devices for large Teller project roll out - over 700 devices within two months while still handling day to day volume.  • Attention to detail with training new employees and maintaining all bank branches.  • Customer service answering helpdesk calls and assisting all onsite employees with any software or hardware issues. Technical Manager McCoy's Iron and Metal January 2006 to May 2012 • Repaired company computers when hardware or software issue arises  • Setup File and Print sharing to share files between front desk computers  • Setup Virgin Mobile wireless data cards for mobile use by managers  • Managed windows and security updates on all machines including installing service packs  • Performed general cleanup regularly on machines: Defrag, Temp folders, etc.  • Added users and groups to March DVR system and troubleshot analog and IP cameras  • Toned out and ran cables from wall ports to the patch panel  • Created new connections for Ethernet and POTS lines and ran cables  • Built custom desktop computers, repaired laptop computers  • Learned good recycling knowledge for electronics and other materials  • Implemented and managed MAC filtering, on firewall for company access  • Upgraded computers to Windows 8, from Windows XP  • Worked with Hydraulic excavators  • Troubleshot electrical issues with Rail Road scale system and Truck Scale system  • Operated heavy machinery scrap handlers  • Worked with Scale company to calibrate rail and truck scales for compliance  • Troubleshot issues with heavy machinery, electrical and computer issues  • Performed Soldering work to re-establish electrical flow on mother boards. Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/steve-letterman/88/74a/143