Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Jones Plastic & Engineering Nicholasville, KY To obtain a long-term career I can work for many years and hopefully into retirement exercising my breadth of experience working with computers and customer service. Work Experience Systems Administrator Jones Plastic & Engineering - Williamsburg, KY March 2019 to Present Entry access control system setup and maintenance  Camera systems setup and maintenance  Active directory setup and maintenance and administration  ERP systems (epicor) maintenance  User PC assistance  Server maintenance  Battery backup maintenance  Phone system maintenance  Meraki monitor and control  Hyper-V server setup and maintenance Systems engineer TEKSwork - Williamsburg, KY September 2018 to November 2018 Systems admin for large corporate accounts  Managed backups for multiple large companies totalling over 100TB of data  Did network, hardware and software diagnostics and troubleshooting on site at companies using our  services including city goverments Customer Service Conduent - Direct Express July 2018 to September 2018 Account security  Account Maintenance  Processing new card requests Driver Brinks Cash Logistics - Lexington, KY July 2017 to February 2018 Driver and armed guard for cash logistics.  Vault teller -auditing, and order packing  Secure transfer of liability to and from banks and federal reserve    Direct Support Professional Community Alternatives of Kentucky - Lexington, KY September 2016 to January 2017 Assist individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities live their lives to the fullest.  In-home care  Medication administration  Work assistance IT Specialist Eastern Kentucky University Richmond - Richmond, KY March 2016 to May 2016 Duties:  ? Checking in and out Laptops, Cameras, Projectors, Etc.  ? Sending Reminder Emails for checked out equipment  ? Answering Phone calls and Calling to remind people of checked out equipment  ? Data Entry  ? Fixing and Troubleshooting Student Computers  ? Customer Service Network Technician University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY 2016 to 2016 to 2016  Installing and terminating Cat 6  Troubleshooting office networks  Troubleshooting system issues  Troubleshooting VoIP services Security Officer Securitas Lexington - Lexington, KY April 2015 to July 2015 Duties:  ? Access Control  ? Monitoring CCTV  ? Escort Personnel  ? Traffic Control  ? Customer Service  ? Long-Distance Travel to Man Posts Public Safety Officer Eastern Kentucky University Richmond - Richmond, KY September 2013 to January 2014 Duties:  ? Locking and securing Buildings  ? Traffic Control  ? Writing Parking Tickets  ? Welfare Checks  ? Uniformed Escort  ? Dispatch  ? Customer Service IT Specialist Office Depot - Nicholasville, KY July 2012 to January 2013 Duties:  ? Fixing and troubleshooting customer Computers, Cameras, Projectors, Printers  ? Sales  ? Customer Service  ? Running register  ? Cleaning and organizing store Education Emergency Medicine Eastern Kentucky University - Richmond, KY Skills EPICOR, ERP, ACCESS CONTROL, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO Additional Information SKILLS    ? IC3 Certified in Microsoft Data Processing  ? IC3 Certified in Web Applications  ? IC3 Certified in Windows Troubleshooting  ? Kentucky 2013 Cyber Defense Winner STLP  ? CPR/AED Certified  ? Vmware - Virtual machines used on all personal PC's  ? Hyper -V server virtualization - Setup and maintenance  ? Mattec by Epicor - Maintenance on server for factory efficiency monitoring  ? Epicor ERP system - setup and Maintenance  ? Access control security using Stanley Pac for setup and monitoring  ? Everfocus CCTV system maintenance and upgrade  ? Zebra and DATAMAX label printer maintenance and first use setup  ? Avaya and Mitel IP Phone systems maintenance and installation  ? Cisco Meraki - Network analytics, and monitoring as well as network support  ? Comptia A+ hardware and software, and network + classes passed (Have not taken tests)  ? Electricity and motor controls class Passed  ? Windows 7, 8 and 10 troubleshooting and support  ? Active directory management and support  ? Audio, Sound, Visual presentation setup and installation for conference room settings.  ? Click-share Setup  ? Backup and remote backup monitoring - services through Vembu  ? Project planning - Budgeting, estimates, installation, and setup up for the CEO and Plant manager  ? Running and pulling cable for new networks