Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II - ManTech International Corporation, Cyber Security Range Stafford County, VA Information Technology, Customer Services Professional and Military Veteran with a Top Secret/SCI Security Clearance and over 10 years of military service. Proven experience in the Information Technology field and leadership positions. Has extensive background in fast-paced customer service environments. Experience installing, troubleshooting, and supporting computers and servers on both classified and unclassified networks. A vast understanding of networking, systems administration, operations management as well as knowledge in IT procurements. Recognized by superiors for professionalism and leadership abilities as well as the recipient of multiple award for outstanding performance while serving in the United States Air Force. Career supported by Associates in Information Systems Technology, professional certifications and military training.    Highlights of expertise:  • Helpdesk Support  • Technical Documentation  • System Configurations  • Tier II Support    • Inventory Management  • Troubleshooting/Resolution  • Report Generation  • System Maintenance    • Status Monitoring  • End-user Training  • Customer Service  • Server Administration Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator II ManTech International Corporation, Cyber Security Range - Stafford, VA May 2019 to Present Perform system administration functions for Windows and Linux-based machines, including maintaining patch updates, create/manage/configure virtual machines (VMWare) and troubleshoot issues. Provide software service support to development and test user community: perform cross-domain file transfers, acquire and maintain software repositories, and issue licenses to entitled users. Maintain software asset management database per established standard operating procedures. Perform operational system maintenance tasks such as anti-virus updates, patches, backups and configuration changes. Work with a team to troubleshoot software download and activation problems. Work with task and technical leads to improve the software distribution process. Manages and maintains all network accounts across 3 different domains. Database Administrator United States Air Force - Pentagon, VA, US February 2015 to Present Responsible for providing critical 24x7 command and control systems support to the President, Secretary of Defense(SecDef), Joint Staff (JS), National Military Command Center (NMCC), combatant commanders, and other federal agencies. Served as the focal point of contact for customer support for the Global Command and Control Systems-Joint (GCCS-J) and Global Status of Resources and Training Systems as well as the setup of administrator and service accounts. Maintained the integrity and security of servers and systems and provided daily system status updates and briefs to senior leadership. (GCCS-J, Oracle and JOPES). Ran setup and maintenance of daily leadership Video Teleconference.    Utilized: Remedy, Linux, Tivoli, Active Directory, McAfee, SCCM, HBSS, VMWare, and ACAS to provide  support to system users. Information Technology Procurements Section Chief United States Air Force - Sumter, SC January 2018 to May 2019 Responsible for 8 member information technology procurements and training sections. Performs as the Contracting Officer Representative on 10 separate contracts employing 170 personnel. Coordinates all software and warranty purchase as well as the execution of Operations Division plans, budget and funding requirements. Senior technician for 45 member 24x7 customer support center for 27K users at 12 overseas locations. Responsible for prioritizing work orders and assigning the appropriate resources. Reviews creation and documentation of all work center training for 60+ junior members.    Utilized: Remedy, SolarWinds, Active Directory, McAfee, SCCM, HBSS, VMWare, Microsoft Exchange and DEAMS to provide support to system users. Lead Cyber Systems Administrator United States Air Force February 2014 to February 2015 February 2014 - February 2015    Lead technician for 16 member military/contractor work center. Trained all new members on multiple command and control systems. Managed 1.3PB data on multi-national networks as well as 6,000 exchange accounts across 6 separate domains with 4,500 coalition users. Responsible for weekly preventative maintenance across 279 servers and 930 network systems. Authored 22 standard operating procedures automating the shutdown process for 200+ servers. Installed 11 virtual servers, standing up new coalition network.    Utilized: Remedy, Active Directory, McAfee, SCCM, HBSS, VMWare, ACAS, and Microsoft Exchange to provide support to system users. Server Desk Technician United States Air Force February 2011 to February 2014 Performed 24x7 tier-2 help desk isolation/corrective actions as well as elevated/monitored tier-3 actions. Responsible for the installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of computer systems across 4 domains and 31 Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance systems supporting 120 joint service units. Maintained and configure network backups on DoD Classified and Unclassified networks. Monitored network status using Open View to ensure continuous connectivity. Troubleshot, corrected and ran Video Teleconferences (VTC) on 2 networks. Operated and Maintained Classified and Unclassified networks while forward deployed at Camp Lemonier, Djibouti Africa. Life cycled 154 outdate network devices and issued 820 classified Public Key Infrastructure Tokens.    Utilized: Remedy, Active Directory, McAfee, SCCM, HBSS, Open View, and Microsoft Exchange to provide support to system users. Server Desk Technician United States Air Force October 2008 to February 2011 Responsible for the 24x7 administration of the classified/unclassified Air Force Global Information Grid. Command and Control help desk function using Remedy, Directory Resource Admin, and Automated Call Distribution systems. Generated trouble tickets and facilitated issue resolution for 850,000 Air Force network users at 121. Main Operating Bases and 106 Geographically Separated Units. Installed required security patches and system updates as well resolving application errors, resetting/unlocking network passwords. Tracked/reported Enterprise Service outages, providing situational awareness to leadership. Education Bachelor's in Organizational Management in Organizational Management Ashford University - San Diego, CA July 2017 to September 2020 Whitfield County Career Academy - Dalton, GA August 2003 to May 2007 Associate in Information Systems Technology in Information Systems Technology Community College of the Air Force - Montgomery, AL Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, EXCHANGE, NETIQ, NETWORKING, REMEDY, SMS, SOLARWINDS, TCP/IP, TIVOLI, CITRIX, DHCP, LAN/WAN, TCP, VMWARE, VPN, DMS, ORACLE, LINUX Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E6