Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Romney, WV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Wave2Net - Winchester, VA June 2016 to Present Administration    Install, maintain and update email, web and file servers. Install and Windows Server 2012 configure workstations and network printers. Update and maintain  Wordpress Website  Company website. Liaison with vendors to resolve escalated issues.  management.  Maintain the CMS System. Create Custom reports for staff as needed.  SIP and VoIP Technologies. Assistant Help Desk Davis & Elkins College - Elkins, WV August 2015 to December 2015 Network printer  Manage Help Desk Ticketing system. Troubleshoot printer issues and management.  connectivity problems. Manage email accounts. Trained Technicians and End-Users. Manage technology classrooms. Answer and routed calls on Email Account Management.  the Help Desk Hotline. Set up new workstations for employees. Manage Windows PC imaging.  email accounts and passwords. Update user PCs. Update, install software and troubleshoot End-User PCs.  LANGUAGES Workstation Technician Davis & Elkins College - Elkins, WV September 2013 to May 2014 CSS, PowerShell    Mentored and assisted with training for Workstation Technician 1 student employees. Worked with D&E Information Services staff as appropriate to determine and resolve problems received from end-users. Installed software, patches and updates on workstations, laptops and peripheral equipment within established standards and guidelines. Troubleshoot hardware issues, including replacement of hardware on workstations, laptops and peripheral equipment. Maintained Inventory Asset records for all campus equipment: workstations, laptops, printers, AV equipment, etc. Informally trained and oriented end-users on use of hardware and software. Interacted with end-users in a professional and courteous manner, as an official representative of the Information Services  Department. Education Bachelors in Computer Science Davis & Elkins College - Elkins, WV January 2010 to January 2014 Skills Active Directory, System Admin, Linux, System Administrator, Linux Administrator Assessments Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to prioritize and allocate time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nm2iouhj-rtetqa1 Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/f9sndntdbcozxjgl Basic Computer Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gnwo-b1n-n4z21hv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.