Systems Administrator 4 <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> 4 Systems Administrator - Vertex Aerospace Brandon, MS Work Experience Systems Administrator 4 Vertex Aerospace - Madison, MS February 2019 to Present * I was brought in as a member of a team of 4 server administrators to assist with implementing a new server and storage infrastructure.  * In addition to implementing a new infrastructure we have also been migrating from a legacy Microsoft Active Directory domain to separate from the L3 / Vertex business relationship to a new Microsoft Active Directory domain that belongs to Vertex Aerospace. The migration has recently been completed.  * Now that the AD migration is complete we have turned our focus to continue the infrastructure build out which consists of migrating legacy servers from the old hardware to the new hardware; PtoV old servers to VMware 6.7 virtual machines; migrating from the legacy backup solution to new backup solution; migrating from legacy iSCSI spindle storage to fibre channel flash storage. I am also assisting with the build out of all the new subnets and DNS records in Infoblox away from the legacy IPAM, DNS, DHCP solution; building new GPO's, OU's and new security groups in Active Directory; architecting and building out a new file server infrastructure utilizing DFS.  * My responsibilities consist of server and storage administration, Microsoft Active Directory, Infoblox DNS, DHCP and IPAM, Solarwinds monitoring and administration, Group Policy, Microsoft Windows file server, file share and NTFS permission administration, physical and virtual server implementations utilizing VMware 6.7 on Cisco UCS blades with backend storage on Pure Storage Flash array. Backup and archive policy configuration utilizing Cohesity. Vendor management, product and technology research and recommend emerging technologies to management. Sr. Systems Administrator MS Baptist Health Systems - Jackson, MS May 2011 to February 2019 * I am responsible for the design, implementation and daily operations of our Server, SAN, NAS and backup/archive environment.  * My responsibilities consist of server administration, Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft and Infoblox DNS, Microsoft and Infoblox DHCP, Solarwinds monitoring and administration, Solarwinds and Infoblox IPAM administration, Group Policy, Microsoft Windows file server / clustering administration, EMC Isilon NAS administration, file share and NTFS permission administration, physical and virtual server implementations, VMware ESXi install and setup and end user trouble isolation. Layer 1 and Layer 2 IP network and storage iSCSI administration on Cisco switches. SAN switch configuration, SAN zoning, storage array configuration, LUN requests, SAN upgrades, storage replication configuration, disaster recovery, backup policy configuration, archive policy configuration. Vendor management, product and technology research and recommend emerging technologies to management.  * Server and O/S environment consist of Cisco UCS, IBM x-series, IBM H-blade, and IBM Flex all running ESXi 6.0, Windows Server 2008, 2012 and 2016.  * Storage infrastructure consist of: IBM SAN Volume Controllers (SVC), IBM FlashSystem 900, IBM DS8300, IBM XIV, IBM V7000, IBM V7000-unified, IBM DS4000 series, Brocade DCX directors (fibre channel), Brocade 5000's and IBM blade center Brocade switches, EMC Isilon, NetApp (nSeries) and Cisco switches for iSCSI.  * Backup and archive infrastructure consist of EMC Avamar, EMC Data Domain, Symantec NetBackup, and IBM TS3500 tape library with TS3592E tape drives and Symantec Enterprise Vault.  * Currently working with our two organizations to migrate and combine into one entity. This effort consists of migrating servers from existing Microsoft Active Directory domains to new joined Active Directory domain, user and data migrations. During my time at Baptist I've recommended, designed and implemented a new storage, backup and archive environment to remove unnecessary complexity and interdependencies in addition to saving us administration hours, maintenance costs, downtime and real estate. Implemented a server and switch cabling system that others notice due to the clean design without the cable clutter in each rack. We went from backing up only 100 servers to over 600 servers and nearly all our SQL databases due to the new backup solution. Successfully recovered all data that was held for ransom without having to payout any attackers. My team and I successfully accomplished many data migrations from old storage arrays to new storage arrays. My team and I implemented a disaster recovery site which serves also as our secondary production site. I am always looking for efficiencies and ways to innovate. I've developed most of the technical documentation and procedures for my area. I enjoy sharing my knowledge and have trained several junior administrators that have taken the knowledge I've shared with them and gone on to become senior administrators for other organizations. Sr. Systems Specialist MS Dept of Employment Security - Jackson, MS June 2007 to May 2011 * Designed, implemented and maintained the open systems server and storage environment for the Mississippi Department of Employment Security which included two IBM DS4500's, one SUN StorageTek 6540, four FalconStor IPStor SAN virtual appliance, fifteen Brocade and McData 2GB and 4GB fibre channel switches and all SAN attached disks on over seventy Solaris 10, VMware 4.0 and Windows Server 2003 and 2008 client servers. I also maintained all areas of the IBM Tivoli Storage Manager (TSM) backup server and IBM 3584 tape library.  * Primary duties: LUN request; LUN expansions and migrations; data backup lifecycle for disaster recovery; maintenance and performance tuning of all storage and tape library systems; software and firmware upgrades and deployments on application and database servers; switch zoning; software and hardware problem solving; vendor management.  * I was a member of the disaster recovery team where we planned and documented our efforts for preparation of potential disasters. Director of Network Operations Xfone USA - Jackson, MS April 2005 to June 2007 promoted from manager to director during this time period)    * Responsible for engineering, designing and managing our telephone network switches, ATM, SONET, Cisco routers (Internet) and TDM networks in Jackson, MS and New Orleans, LA.  * Managed 3 supervisors who in addition supervised approximately 20 employees in several different areas of network operations such as telephone and network switching technicians, field, and central office technicians, local exchange carrier provisioners, network designers, and planning/statistics engineers.  * Worked with other department managers to develop training material, guidelines and procedures to demonstrate technical processes for various departments.  * Maintained and compiled daily reports for tracking and forecasting transport and equipment usage along with monitoring network and equipment thresholds that trigger notifications to augment necessary facilities.  * Monitored and coordinated employees and contractor assignments to verify projects were on schedule and met company specifications along with meeting budgetary requirements. Sr. Switch Technician Xfone USA - Jackson, MS June 2004 to April 2005 * Installed, maintained and provisioned equipment, peripherals and environments associated with class 5 switching, multiple SONET networks, central office DSLAM and DLC nodes, ATM switch and network, ATM-GR303 voice gateway and Internet services utilizing Cisco 7200 routers.  * Performed standard local switching translations, including, but not limited to, digit routing, LERG updates, trunk groups and SS7.  * Analyzed, diagnosed and tested all call routing, transport (DS0;DS1;DS3;OC12), equipment and environmental issues.  * Monitored and provided full documented reports for trunk and equipment utilization.  * Worked in all types of central office environments to activate, wire, cable, install, provision, analyze, diagnose, test and maintain SONET, POTS, ADSL and HDSL nodes.  * Configured Internet services in our core Cisco 7200 series routers and DSLAM nodes for our DSL provided Internet services.  * Worked in designated maintenance hour schedule for all service and potentially service effecting issues and projects.  * Personally installed, provisioned and activated most switching, SONET/transport and ATM network elements and trained other technicians. Switch Technician II T-Mobile USA - New Orleans, LA July 2001 to June 2004 * Deployed, operated and maintained the GSM mobile switching center in the Louisiana market starting from the first site to over 200 sites in the market.  * Defined cell site and other translations in Ericsson MSC and BSC nodes.  * Supported RF engineers and field technicians with RBS installs and upgrades, such as antenna and LNA/TMA swaps, expansion cabinets, and radio additions.  * Assisted RF engineers with cell optimization, including frequency retunes, radio power adjustments, handover issues and complex cell site configurations.  * Installed and troubleshot hardware in Radio Base Stations.  * Implemented software and hardware upgrades on MSC, BSC and RBS nodes.  * Utilized the Ericsson OSS platform to manage cell site re-homes, network optimization, parameter changes and software downloads.  * Assisted the planning group to track and trend the cellular network traffic, transport and cell site capacity for network growth using applications such as Metrica, spreadsheets and manual equipment reports.  * Coordinated, tested, and turned up E911 facilities in all local emergency areas.  * Equipment utilized: Ericsson AXE-10 MSC/BSC BYB 202/501, Ericsson 2102/2106 RBS cabinets, Tellabs Titan5500 DCS, DNX-11 1x0 DCS, Glenayre v-mail, Tellabs Verity3300 Echo cancellers, Adtran 1x0 channel banks.  * Network surveillance, optimization and fault management.  * Provisioned, tested and turned up DS-1 and DS-3 transport lines.  * Act as liaison to switch manager and lead to other technicians.  * Developed many of the technical standards and procedures we used. Network Installation Technician WorldCom - Clinton, MS October 1999 to June 2001 * Provisioned, tested and turned-up DS-3 thru DS-0 level transmissions.  * Equipment utilized: Nortel DMS-250, DEX600E, Tellabs Titan5500/532L, Alcatel 1630/1631, Tadiran, Lucent Frame Relay, and Stratacom ATM.  * Completed switch/facility re-homes for switch/POP closures and cost savings.  * Defined PVC's and ping tested Stratacom ATM switch facilities.  * Coordinated all disconnects, cut-overs and new service of transmission facilities with local exchange carriers, such as Bell South, Verizon, GTE, Pac Bell, etc. IBM AS/400 Operator Skytel Communications - Jackson, MS April 1998 to October 1999 * Monitored the daily operations and performance of 10 AS/400 systems.  * Performed backups of the systems data on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis.  * Wrote scripts to automate the workload and repair faulty scripts.  * Installed new system software and hardware.  * Assisted over 2000 system users with password resets, connection issues, etc. Education High school or equivalent Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, Cisco UCS, SAN Storage Administration Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Storage+ by SNIA September 2015 to Present Additional Information *Visionary  *Organized  *Co-worker relations  *Strong ability to manage projects and trouble shoot and isolate problems  *Passion for thorough documentation