Systems Administrator I <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I Systems Administrator I - FedEx Supply Chain- Fulfillment Indianapolis, IN Work Experience Systems Administrator I FedEx Supply Chain- Fulfillment - Greenwood, IN May 2018 to Present • Assist end users in production and office areas with Windows 7,10 and MS office suites.  • Level 1 support for operations on all Manhattan WMS issues.  • Support O365/Outlook 2013, 2016 email platforms.  • Support laser, Zebra printers, and Ricoh multi-function printers/copiers  • Engage with external vendors to have equipment with issues under warranty resolved.  • Identify and resolve hardware and software issues in a timely manner.  • Train employees across multiple departments on network operations including log-in procedures, permissions, printing issues, security and use of software.  • Support and administer 200+ Windows PC's.  • Collaborate with corporate IT to insure monthly update patches are applied to PC's.  • Support, configure and troubleshoot RF devices, including Motorola WT41N0 & MC9290  • Other duties as assigned. Systems Technician FedEx Supply Chain- Fulfillment - Greenwood, IN December 2016 to May 2018 • Assist end users in production and office areas with Windows 7,10 and MS office suites  • Support Fulfilment IT needs, including user profile configuration and printer installations  • Inventory management and allocation of all IT related equipment  • Create and maintain user adds, moves and disables in Manhattan WMS 2016 for labor management  • Support laser and Zebra printers, and Ricoh multi-function printers/copiers  • Perform routine maintenance and administration of systems to meet company requirements  • Escalate higher level issues as required  • Responsible for RMA and repair of devices under warranty  • Other duties as assigned Acting Supervisor Genco - Greenwood, IN May 2015 to December 2016 • Developed and Implemented a system that boosted productivity by 30%  • Maintained a clean, neat, and orderly work environment that adheres to 5's standards  • Continued to operate under budget by leveraging labor hours to volume demand  • Continue to meet all SLA's with contract  • Communicates daily through start up meetings, making sure all work instructions, daily work flow and safety practices are being followed  • Help setup PC desktop hardware, software, and peripherals  • Assist General Manager and AGM on special projects as needed Team Lead Genco - Greenwood, IN August 2011 to May 2015 • Assist supervisor in overseeing up to 20+ teammates on a daily basis, to ensure safety, make sure weekly productivity goals are met and that opportunities to be LEAN are capitalized on.  • Delegate duties and insure assignments are completed correctly and on time.  • Train Teammates in the SOP's needed to meet/exceed Cases per Hour requirements.  • Adhere to and foster LEAN methods as a continual tool for improvement.  • Load/ unload trailers, process daily UPS, ship, receive, pick, pack and fill in where needed. Warehouse Associate Best Buy Distribution Center - Franklin, IN July 2008 to April 2011 • Verified inventory computations by comparing them to physical counts of stock, and investigate discrepancies and adjust errors  • Pack, seal, label, or affix postage to prepare materials for shipping, using hand tools, power tools, or postage meter.  • Trained to use a stand up forklift and cherry picker to transport and put away product throughout the warehouse. Team Leader Wal-Mart Supercenter - Franklin, IN January 2007 to July 2008 • Directed and supervised employees engaged in sales  • Listened to and resolved customer complaints regarding services, products  • Stock shelves, rack, cases, bins, and tables with new or transferred merchandise. Education William Howard Taft High School 2003 Skills forklift, Warehouse, RF scanner, shipping, Inventory Control, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin Certifications/Licenses Forklift Certified