Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Sherman Oaks, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator Punch Studio - Culver City, CA August 2018 to December 2018 • Provided leadership in the resolution of technical support issues for MAC and Windows OS computers.  • Monitored and maintained ESXi 5.5-6.5 physical and virtual server infrastructure.  • Planned firewall and server environment upgrades.  • Implemented Centreon server and network system alert software and Confluence for IT technical documentation  • Worked with vendors in the research, development and implementation of server technologies.  • Prepared and maintained written documentation of company server and network environments.  • Work with department leaders implementing new software and hardware technologies. Network and Systems Manager, Aerospace Dynamics Int Precision Castparts Corporation - Valencia, CA June 2015 to July 2018 • Planned IT site projects including Cisco switch upgrade, Dell workstation and SAN refreshes.  • Managed 5 employee IT team overseeing daily activities and projects. Tracked progress of performance for yearly reviews.  • Presented monthly team meetings to discuss changing corporate policies and future site projects.  • Maintained documentation and inventory for applications and systems utilizing Lansweeper and Sharepoint.  • Deployed Nagios/Centreon and Zabbix monitoring systems.  • Worked closely with department directors and managers to implement ideas for workflow improvements across company campus.  • Forecast inventory needs and worked with suppliers for availability and pricing System Administrator, Klune Industries Precision Castparts Corporation - North Hollywood, CA April 2014 to June 2015 • Active Directory and Exchange 2010 administration for site clients.  • Created Security groups for site file servers.  • Implemented group policies for network share mapping.  • Site refresh of 120+ Dell systems running Windows 7 OS including image creation utilizing Acronis.  • Resolve all end user issues submitted to SCSM ticketing system.  • Installed, configured and maintained license servers for multiple CAD and manufacturing inspection systems.  • Setup Windows 2012R2 print server and led full site refresh of Xerox printers.  • Supported installation and maintenance of multiple security applications including DDPE, Bitlocker, Invincia, Norton AV, Windows Defender, Fire AMP, and Splunk. Systems Specialist GenerationIX - Los Angeles, CA November 2013 to March 2014 • Management services for 15 small business clients through onsite and remote support utilizing Bomgar.  • New user setup in Active Directory and Exchange 2010.  • Support clients in Xenapp 6.0 and Xendesktop 5.  • Resolve all end user issues submitted to Kaseya ticketing system.  • Supported all hardware with white glove service including Apple, Microsoft, Android devices and operating systems. Support Specialist Fujitsu - East Providence, RI January 2013 to February 2013 • Remote and on site support for Citrix roll out project at Citizens Bank.  • Report defective applications configurations in test and prod environments.  • Ticket submission for incorrect active directory permissions.  • Configured VPN and thin print clients on B.Y.O.D. and company issued devices Windows System Administrator Providence Journal - Providence, RI December 2010 to November 2012 • Supported Microsoft Operating systems from Windows 2000 to 2008 R2.  • Citrix administration for enterprise farm.  • Patch management with CA ITCM enterprise software.  • Dell server hardware troubleshooting and software configuration  • VMware ESX 3.5 and 4.0 Server, enterprise data consolidation projects, and P2V server migrations with vcenter converter 4.1.  • Hands-on experience working with Citrix Xenapp 4.0-6.0, including creating and maintaining a enterprise farm utilizing physical and virtual servers.  • Active directory and backup recovery.  • VM and Physical server builds with x86 and x64 platforms.  • Basic powershell scripting.  • Monitor enterprise using Solarwinds. EUS/ Systems Specialist Providence Journal - Providence, RI January 2006 to December 2010 • Support on all user Dell and Apple Intel hardware.  • Software installs and configuration on user workstations, including Microsoft Office products, Adobe's catalog, and Citrix Xenapp clients.  • Virus detection program knowledge with McAffe, Symantic, Trend Micro, Malwarebytes and Windows defender.  • Supported RIM, iPhone, iPad and Android device setup and configuration.  • Peripheral support including local and network printers, usb drives, usb network adapters, and drive write/readers  • Built and supported PXE server with multiple images WinXP/7 for PC refreshes.  • Created, documented and deployed all MAC OSX images to Intel machines. Field / Support Technician IBM Global services - Costa Mesa, CA February 2005 to April 2006 Amtrack, Best Buy, Big Lots, Blockbuster Video, Dominoes Pizza, Ford automotive, Hilton, ING Direct, Red Lobster, Reuters    • POS system refreshes, server software upgrades, hardware installations including Ingenico credit card scanner, RF systems, servers and rack mounts, and WiFi routers.  • Lead EUS on several accounts including ING direct, Reuters financial and Merrill Lynch. Administrative Assistant American Honda Motor Corp - Torrance, CA June 2004 to December 2005 • Maintained Honda catalog pricing spreadsheet for all sales departments  • Produced Graphs and pivot tables for Honda motorcycle team meetings with MS Excel. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Networking Services in Computer Networking University of Phoenix 2008 Associate Degree in Information Technology Services in Information Technology Services ITT Technical Institute - West Covina, CA 2006 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, CITRIX, VLAN, VMWARE, System Administrator, System Admin, System Administrator, System Admin, SCCM