Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Engineer/ Administrator Hope Mills, NC To obtain a position as a Systems Engineer/ Systems Administrator Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Public Works Commission of Fayetteville - Fayetteville, NC November 2016 to Present Primary Backup resource employing Commvault backup solution to back up our physical and virtual environment with HP 3 Par and EVA SANS on the backend. Also primary virtualization resource in charge of designing and building our new Sphere 6.5 environment for both infrastructure and Horizon View 7. Compute resources are Cisco UCS. Other duties include Windows Sys Admin duties and application installs/upgrades for our user base. Senior Systems Engineer/Epic Hyperspace Administrator FirstHealth of the Carolinas - Pinehurst, NC January 2016 to November 2016 Lead VMware View Architect/Engineer and part of our Epic team. Primary Epic role is Hyperspace Administrator while I also backup our Epic Web Services Engineer. Currently involved in moving FirstHealth to the Epic System by upgrading our existing Vmware View 5.2 environment to View 6. Also part of the project is moving to Netapp All Flash arrays. Along with my View duties mentioned below, I am now responsible for the deployment of the Epic Hyperspace client in our View environment. Systems Engineer FirstHealth of the Carolinas - Pinehurst, NC December 2011 to January 2016 Duties include building and maintaining Windows 2003-Windows 2008 servers typically as VMs in VSphere 5.0. Also serve as primary backup resource using both NetApp OSSV backups to our appliances and Tape backup using Backup Exec. In addition, also responsible for ThinApp software deployment via both our View desktops and to our physical machines using SCCM 2012 and am primary architect for our VM View environment entailing creating and maintaining Masters, creating new linked clone pools based on customer needs, deploying apps either fat on master, via group policy directly to clones, or via Thinapp and View. Also use group policy to configure policies on linked clones and/or restrict access to certain security groups via filtering. Responsible for coordinating upgrades for our many clinical applications, including scheduling downtimes, contacting vendors, and working with our analysts. Also package and deploy software to our client machines via a combination of tools including SCCM 2012, AdminStudio, WinInstall, Thinapp, and MS Appv. Batch, vbs, and Powershell scripting are also used. IT Analyst Duke Health Technology Solutions - Durham, NC December 2005 to December 2011 Duties include packaging, deployment, and testing of new applications and/or upgrades to the hospital's network of over 6000 Windows XP workstations. Application deployment was done primarily via Wininstall and batch scripts. Updates were handled via MS WSUS 3.2. Stood up and maintained SCCM 2007 server. Worked extensively in Active Directory maintaining user and computer accounts, creating group policies, etc. I also supported a farm of over 20 Citrix servers which were made available as published desktops and applications for our remote users. Built and maintained Quality Center server used for Software QA of our in house development team. Stood up and maintained McAffee server to push McAffee client, run vulnerability scans, etc. Desktop Support Specialist Duke Health Technology Solutions - Durham, NC November 2003 to December 2005 Duties included providing desktop/network support to a group of over eighty researchers and close to one hundred desktops. The majority of the desktops were running Windows XP/2000 with a small number of Mac OSX machines. All machines and users are managed in Active Directory with network resources provided offsite on Duke Health‘s Windows 2003 Server cluster. In addition to day to day desktop support issues that may arise, other duties include creating new user/machine accounts and security groups as needed in AD, modifying login scripts when needed, ordering of new hardware or replacement parts for existing hardware (primarily Dell), keeping a running inventory of current IT related assets, and assisting with the integration of the various scientific instruments in the lab into the Windows network.    Technical Support Specialist Horace Mann Charter School - Hyannis, MA December 2002 to August 2003 Responsible for the support of a more than 200 PC/Mac network running off of a Novell server. Duties included hardware/software installation/upgrades, pc repair, network installation/maintenance, troubleshooting user issues. In charge of installing multiple wireless access points throughout the school providing full wireless coverage. Software QA Engineer Iambic Software - Tampa, FL October 2001 to December 2002 Manual testing of all Palm OS applications prior to release, technical customer support via email and online forums, maintenance of customer database. Education BS in Computer Information Systems University of South Florida - Tampa, FL August 1999 to May 2001 Skills System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses VCP6-DTM March 2018 to March 2020 VMware Certified Professional 6 - Desktop and Mobility VCP6.5-DCV March 2018 to March 2020 VMWare Certified Professional 6.5- Data Center Virtualization Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/o8qfou0zi8et4b49 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Extensive desktop and server support experience.  • Highly proficient application deployment and scripting skills.  • Superior customer service skills.  • Comprehensive IS training in hardware/software design.  • Desire to learn and work with cutting edge technologies.  • Excellent communication and organizational skills    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Microsoft Windows (95-Windows 10, Windows Server 2003-2016) * Active Directory * MS Office (97-2013) * MS SMS 2003 and MS SCCM 2007, 2012 * MS WSUS * Microsoft Outlook * WinInstall * Citrix Metaframe 4.5 * MS Dos Batch Scripting * VMWare VSphere 4.1/5.0,5.5,6.5 * ESXI 5, 5.5, 6.5 * VMware Thinapp 4.7 * Horizon View 5.2,6,7 * Backup Exec 2010 * NetApp Ops Manager * Commvault v11  Cisco UCS