Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - AIS Cypress, CA I am a Systems Administrator based in Southern California working for an MSP who manages clients in California and Nevada. You can also view my online resume @ https://corey.cjh-it.com Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator AIS 2018 to Present I am currently employed with AIS as an MNS Systems Administrator. I work remotely managing our L.A./O.C. clients. I was brought on to the AIS team when they took over my previous employer as a client.  My main responsibilities include:    • Installation/management/troubleshooting of server and end-user hardware and software  • Network management  • Active Directory management  • Windows Network Storage deployment and management  • Copier and printer setup and maintenance  • Hyper-V deployment and management  • Project development and implementation  • Remote desktop support Help Desk Manager Junior Systems Administrator St. John Bosco High School 2012 to 2018 I was employed at SJB as the Help Desk Manager and Junior Systems Administrator for 6 years. I was part of a three-man IT department overseeing 150+ staff, 650+ students, and 2000+ devices. Graphic Designer IT Support Persuasium Consulting 2008 to 2012 I worked as a Graphic Designer, and later became the IT support for Persuasium Consulting. I set up a Windows Home Server for central storage across Windows and OSX devices. Education Long Beach Community College 2008 to 2011 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Linux, System Admin, Vmware Links https://corey.cjh-it.com Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified March 2014 to March 2017 Additional Information Personal experience with Linux in a server environment with my home-lab. I have a small rack holding enterprise grade hardware consisting of:    • Gen. 12 Dell server for production services  • Enterprise level Netgear PoE switch  • Dedicated white-box for all backup needs  • White-box for various projects  • White-box hosting pfSense firewall  • UPS battery backup with automated system shutdown on low battery    My production services include:    • Virtualization using KVM  • VPN access  • Reverse proxies  • Automated backup on all bare-metal servers covering all VMs  • Self-hosted cloud storage  • Centralized system monitoring and management  • Reverse proxies for web hosting  • Multimedia server for easy access and sharing of family media    Current projects:    • LDAP integration for unified user control  • Puppet deployment software for easy mass deployments/changes/upgrades  • Docker introduction and education