Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Enhanced Computing Solutions Joppa, MD Insightful, results driven IT professional with notable success directing a broad range of corporate IT security initiatives while participating in planning, analyzing and implementing solutions in support of business objectives. Excel at providing comprehensive secure networks, systems analysis and full life cycle project management. Outstanding ability to coordinate and direct all phases of project-based efforts while managing, motivating and guiding teams. Successful hands-on service. Work Experience Systems Administrator Enhanced Computing Solutions - Towson, MD 2015 to Present Remote and on-site support for client requests.  ? Workstation, server, firewall, router, AP, AV-- builds, installation and support.  ? Escalation point for junior technicians.  ? Client on-boarding and relations.  ? Further SonicWALL, Cisco, Windows, Apple, Android, WatchGuard, Netgear, multiple AVs and Ubiquiti experience. Engineer Decisive Data Systems - Abingdon, MD 2014 to 2014 2014  ? On-site and remote IT support for Windows Servers (2003-2012) and Windows desktops (XP to 8).  ? Client site surveys.  ? Server, workstation, WAP, firewall, and switch configuration and deployment. Windows server 2012 R2, Hyper-V, Cisco and Dell switches, WatchGuard firewalls, EnGenius WAPs, McAfee and Symantec AV.  ? Other on-site installations and recommendations as requested or needed.  ? Client communication, response and relationship building. IT Manager Tier One Technology Partners - Hunt Valley, MD 2007 to 2014 Managed five technicians while reporting to upper management.  ? Stressed the importance of customer service to maintain good client relationships.  ? Cultivated a workplace based on systems documentation and excellent communications.  ? Maintained local servers, workstations, printers, and various equipment as needed: Windows Servers 2000-2012; Windows desktops XP-8.  ? Remote and on-site support for all systems and required client software including Windows servers 2000-2012, desktops XP-8, smartphones, Exchange 2003-2010, BES, BPS, BESX, SonicWALL, Dell switches and SANs.  ? Coordinate with 3rd party vendors on software/hardware installation, maintenance and upgrades.  ? Managed ConnectWise system and assigned incoming support requests.  ? Monitored a full service IT help desk to provide timely customer service including remote monitoring and response to system health-- NOC alerts, Dell OM, HP Insight, MOM.  ? Hands-on support for client equipment, as needed.  ? System and network reviews, site spec outs, client hardware and software recommendations. Store Manager Eckerd Pharmacy - Bel Air, MD 2004 to 2007 Maintained all aspects of business management: customer service, vendor check-in, merchandising, signage, ordering and seasonal product transitions.  ? Increased store revenue by 12% in the first year.  ? Hired, trained, and supervised all retail employees.  ? Reduced employee turnover by 15%.  ? Reported directly to district manager, loss prevention team and district pharmacy supervisor.  ? Acquired and replaced vendors and buyers.  ? Coordinated pharmacy coverage when regular pharmacy employees are not on staff.  ? Completed store orders, freight deliveries, send-backs, store reports and general maintenance in an accurate and timely fashion. Deadline and detail-oriented. Business Manager Target Corporation - White Marsh, MD 2000 to 2004 Managed team of 60 to 125 employees.  ? Supervised workers as they unloaded, organized and stocked merchandise under rigid time constraints.  ? Communicated with other upper level management and team members to ensure excellent customer service.  ? Contributed to the overall success of a store earning in excess of $1,000,000 weekly.  ? Developed effective training, information distribution and disciplinary programs. Education B.S. in Philology and Liberal Arts in Communication Towson University - Towson, MD 1994 to 1997 Microsoft Certified Professional Leadership Training Program Skills Cisco (5 years), Exchange (7 years), firewalls (1 year), Hyper-V (1 year), maintenance (10+ years), It Specialist, Information Technology, Help Desk, Desktop Support Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Microsoft Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 Standard/SBS/Enterprise, Exchange 2003/2007/2010/2013, Windows Terminal server and RDS, Microsoft Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10 installation and configuration, Active Directory administration and design, Group Policy, DNS, DHCP, IIS, Routing, Remote Access, TCP/IP and troubleshooting network connectivity, Windows 2003-2012 Network Infrastructure, Directory Services, Network Environment, and Network Security. Office Suite 2002-MS365. Backup devices and software, NAS and SAN devices, ConnectWise Administration. LAN/WAN, routers, switches, hubs, firewalls, WAPs, fault tolerance, network security, RAM, hard drives, server administration and network protocols. SonicWALL administration. AV installation and maintenance. Some mobile phone and tablet/pad experience. Some Hyper-V, VMWare, WatchGuard, Cisco and Barracuda experience.