Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - MSA, Inc Butler, PA Dedicated and goal-driven Information System professional seeking to contribute development and growth within the system infrastructure needs of a mission focused organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator MSA, Inc. - Pittsburgh, PA October 2018 to Present -Design, implement, and maintain VMware vSphere infrastructure.  -Proficient in AWS services such as VPC, EC2, S3, Load Balancing, AutoScaling, EBS, IAM, Route 53, CloudWatch, CloudTrail, and GovCloud.  -Well versed in Windows Server OS, Active Directory, Windows Failover Clustering, DNS, and DHCP  -Develop custom PowerShell scripts for reporting of virtual and cloud environments.  -Manage virtual and cloud infrastructure solutions for internal and external clients. Desktop Technician II MSA, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA May 2015 to October 2018 -Utilize SCCM for application building, deployment scheduling, and software standardization.  -Employ a variety of troubleshooting techniques using SCCM, Active Directory, Cisco ISE, Cisco IOS, Citrix Director, and vSphere.  -Perform routine maintenance and repair for laptops, phones, and other electronics.  -Utilize drive imaging software, remote service software, and preboot environment software to maintain system functionality both on and offsite Quality Control Inspector Belleville International Inc - Butler, PA August 2010 to May 2015 -Conducted routine final inspections on each unit batch to ensure product met all specifications required by consumer purchase order  -Strengthened product quality through recommendations made to product engineering department  -Continuously improved quality control by automating data analysis and processes through Excel VBA. Education BS in Information Systems - 4.0 GPA Slippery Rock University - Slippery Rock, PA 2014 to 2015 Associate in Applied Science - 4.0 GPA in Applied Science Butler County Community College - Butler, PA 2010 to 2013 Vocational in Computer Networking and Telecommunications Butler County Area Vocational Technical School - Butler, PA September 2007 to June 2009 Skills Enterprise Computer Troubleshooting and Repair, Networking, Active Directory, Configuration Management, Microsoft Office (9 years), Cisco IOS (Routing and Switching) (1 year), System Administrator, Vmware, Cloud Computing, AWS, DNS, DHCP, Windows Server, Powershell Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ 2009 to Present Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) March 2017 to March 2020 CompTIA Security+ March 2018 to March 2021 AWS Certified SysOps Administrator – Associate April 2019 to April 2022 AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Associate August 2018 to August 2021