Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Kemper Insurance La Porte, TX Innovative and hardworking, with over 15 years of experience in Systems Administration; specializing in server/desktop troubleshooting. Installing, configuring, and troubleshooting LAN networks, cabling, hardware, and administrating Microsoft domains.    Demonstrated skill set and Technical abilities:  ? Monitored and maintained Citrix environments, troubleshot issues connecting, applications, and general server health  ? Worked for MSP managing Law Offices, Medical Field, First Responders, Engineering departments, any size company  ? Designing and implementing disaster recovery plans for physical servers, along with entire desktop environment and ERP system  ? Worked both as part of a team and as a sole IT resource for a site, and as a field technician.  ? Assisting in converting clients from Exchange to Office365, creating brand new environments for clients in some cases  ? Updates job knowledge by studying state-of-the-art development tools, programming techniques, and computing equipment.  ? Working with Powershell to change Office365 clients, also configuring Azure AD Sync dependent on client requirements  ? Extensive experience with Microsoft Exchange environments.  ? Keeping a high level of communication open between myself and internal/external customers on their issues.  ? Extensive experience with Active Directory, not only user support but creating/maintaining GPOs and creating environments  ? Strong belief in customer service, meeting deadlines and work under tight time constraints, and in a fast-paced environment  ? Ability to administer and troubleshoot systems in a highly complex multiple platform networked environment, with the ability to quickly learn and adapt to new technologies  ? Maintaining VCenter Server environments  ? Supporting Microsoft Windows 98/XP/7/8, Microsoft Windows NT Server 2003 & Server 2008/2012  ? Maintaining Mac OS from 10.7 to 10.13, installing software/mapping printers/drives  ? Setting up IOS/Android handheld devices (E-mail, 2 Factor Authentication, Mobile Printing, OneDrive, Etc.)  ? Helping diagnose internal customer issues with propriety custom applications with little to no external support  ? Assist with the maintenance of network equipment, including the WIFI controllers and WAPs and general network infrastructure  ? Maintain server-level software installation  ? Maintaining systems and monitoring for optimum system performance  ? Monitor server/desktop endpoint protection and escalate / resolve issues as observed.  ? Support and manage cloud-based applications and servers, such as Azure AD Sync, Barracuda Backup, Commvault and BackupExec.  ? Experience with Cisco, Shoretel and Avaya VOIP phone systems  ? Assisting in maintaining VMware environments, monitoring, expanding drives, general maintenance  ? Physical site visits to data center(s) for hardware inspections, upgrades, and maintenance.  ? Working knowledge creating and deploying group policies and working in PowerShell.  ? Creating disaster recovery scenarios and recovery plans for the "worst case" scenarios depending on location  ? Went through extensive HIPPA training at Kemper, Acropolis and First Choice ER, dealing with sensitive material.  ? Provide 2nd and 3rd level support, but also helping with day to day tickets/issues to help the team perform better  ? Works with suppliers to purchase computer hardware, software, license and other IT supplies  ? Demonstrated abilities to prepare documentation and training materials and conduct user trainings  ? Performing initial standard loads on desktops, laptops, desktop software, telephones, smartphones, wireless devices and peripherals Work Experience Systems Administrator Kemper Insurance - Houston, TX March 2018 to Present Participating on regional IT Support team, managing the ticket queue. Working with Jira and Heat as ticketing systems  ? Maintaining VCenter Server environment  ? Setting up standardized system configuration and automated installation for Dell Windows 10 desktops and Wyse thin clients  ? Provide customer service oriented first-level contact and problem resolution for all users with hardware, software and applications problems.  ? Working with Microsoft Windows 7/10  ? Working with Microsoft Office 2012 and 2016  ? Working with Microsoft Active Directory  ? Executed and documented, Sarbanes-Oxley checks, also ensured adherence to I.T. Policies and Procedures.  ? Working with Citrix XenApp 6.5  ? Working with Dell PCs/Laptops with HP/Dell/Wyse Thin Clients  ? Administrating a lot of proprietary software  ? HIPAA and SOX compliant workplace  ? Administrating 22 servers - half physical, half virtualized on 3 hosts using VMWare Server 2008-2012  ? Backup Exec and Veeam software used for backups  ? Writing clear and thorough technical documentation, on a novice level of technical knowledge  ? Managing Cisco switches  ? 165 clients onsite 50% Dell/Wyse thin clients 50% desktop/laptop  ? Support core infrastructure technologies and related services including Microsoft Infrastructure, Virtualization, Enterprise storage  ? Perform daily site checks to ensure equipment is properly maintained  ? Monitor local backups to ensure site recovery in event of disaster  ? Maintain physical inventory of local systems  ? Monitor the health of critical systems, identify trends, and present results to IT Director  ? Liaise with IT Infrastructure Engineering team to transition technology administration post  ? Ensure continued responsiveness and operational stability of technologies and services supporting the lines of business  ? Maintains IT asset tracking system by performing periodic inventory audits, updating records for repair history, adding records for new purchases, and processing asset transfer and disposal Systems Administrator Acropolis Technology Group - St. Louis, MO September 2014 to March 2018 Working close with the Engineers and Project staff to help with Helpdesk support tickets  ? Using Powershell to clean up Office365 rollouts, and user groups.  ? Managed and supported Law Offices, Hospital/Medical offices, Engineering, First Responders and VIP clients.  ? Maintaining Mac OS from 10.10 to latest, installing software/mapping printers/drives  ? Managing Virtual environments, using VMware  ? Working with different end user environments, anything from remote only to onsite IT staff in resolving issues  ? Administer end user workstations and to provide appropriate integrity of information systems  ? Provide oversight of policy and standards enforcement through monitoring and assurance functions of PCs and Laptops, network equipment, telecom equipment, and security equipment.  ? Analyze systems including operating systems, application configuration, and network configuration  ? Provide maintenance support for all needed systems  ? Define, document, and test all processes that need to be performed in support of Information Systems policies  ? Act as one of the primary Tier 1 and 2 contacts to resolve incidents in a timely manner Work with End User staff remotely for support requests Work with vendors on support issues and upgrade configurations  ? Troubleshoot network issues.  ? Analyze, modifying and/or design computer environments to ensure user requirements/program objectives are met  ? Installing, configuring, and maintaining the company's workstations and productivity software at all locations  ? Experienced in executing sound judgment to plan and execute goals  ? Schedule application changes and deployments within defined windows and work within the existing change management procedures.  ? Anything from performing day to day tasks with Active Directory to working with GPOs and groups  ? Anything from performing day to day tasks to more advanced tasks with Exchange 2003 - 2013, and Office 365  ? Working with products such as Mimecast and Spamsoap for mail content filtering. IT Support Engineer - Contract First Choice Emergency Room - Houston, TX June 2013 to August 2014 Dallas, TX    ? Provided on-site, daily IT service calls to assigned ER facilities  ? Using Powershell in auditing groups  ? Conducted research on end user devices, security, trends and standards to remain abreast of developments in the industry.  ? Rendered primary helpdesk coverage during shifts  ? Provided timely resolution to keep IT networks "highly available" per company SLA management guidelines  ? Educated/trained users on use of systems, including hands-on training, troubleshooting and acceptable use policies  ? Collaborated with other IT support staff to help establish effective processes for capturing business benefits from process improvement and system applications, and all associated projects, as required  ? Demonstrated proficiency in adhering to IT project objectives and priorities  ? Maintained up to date system/network documentation  ? Participated in a 24x7 on call rotation to assist staff with IT related problems when called upon  ? Tracked, prioritized and documented requests using an IT support Helpdesk and Change Control system  ? Installed and configured IT computing and network equipment also diagnosed software and hardware problems  ? Performed regular updates on servers, networks and ancillary IT equipment  ? Answering helpdesk calls/e-mails about propriety applications.  ? Anything from performing day to day tasks with Active Directory to working with GPOs and groups  ? Anything from performing day to day tasks to more advanced tasks with Exchange 2010 Full time Photographer - Self Employed Self Employed - St. Louis, MO January 2006 to August 2014 La Porte, TX    ? Working as a full time wedding/modeling photographer running my own business  ? Consulting on website development, using extensive database catalogs  ? Establishing wireless networking, for small/medium sized office staff, utilizing Windows 7 and XP  ? Administering ESet Nod & Norton Anti-Virus, and Office 2007/2010 suite IT Administrator Ducommun Labarge Technologies - Houston, TX March 2012 to June 2013 Supplied desktop support on Windows XP, and Windows 7 32bit/64 bit desktops and laptops  ? Designing and implementing disaster recovery plans for physical servers, along with their entire desktop environment and ERP system  ? Working in Oil and Gas field and maintaining equipment.  ? Maintained Domain Controllers, using VMware  ? Carried out troubleshooting and resolving of assigned Help Desk tickets (Using Helpstar Software)  ? Performed preventive maintenance and repairs on all active systems  ? Resolved Local Area Network (LAN) issues  ? Executed and documented, Sarbanes-Oxley checks, also ensured adherence to I.T. Policies and Procedures.  ? Provided end user training, as required  ? Demonstrated proficiency with hand tools and diagnostic tools, as required  ? Managed local Cisco IP Phone telephony  ? Answering helpdesk calls/e-mails about propriety applications.  ? Working outside my scope, helping with Six Sigma projects, making the production process more streamlined.  ? Supported operations; including user account administration, data backups, server installation, maintenance, troubleshooting and repair.  ? Anything from performing day to day tasks with Active Directory to working with plant wide GPOs and groups and Exchange servers. HP Level V Technician - Contract Manpower Staffing - Houston, TX November 2011 to March 2012 Providing Support on Windows XP, and Windows 7 Pro  ? Interfacing with local and regional technical teams  ? Restoring bank hardware, computers, printers, peripherals  ? Testing network connectivity  ? Performing ghost installations of computers Senior Data Analyst Adsell Companies - St. Louis, MO September 2004 to July 2006 Desktop Support on Win98SE, Windows NT, Windows XP  ? Installing and configuring networked workstations for the entire company  ? Programming and setting up letter layouts using Anchor LetterWriter  ? Programming and using Xerox DP180, and Xerox 4635  ? Demonstrating high-caliber knowledge of Excel and several other 3rd party programs  ? Managing and scheduling printing jobs  ? Maintained quality control; checking every job before the laser printing process  ? Technical writing for undocumented procedures  ? Training coworkers on new applications Systems Administrator Talx Corporation - Maryland Heights, MO July 2000 to March 2003 Provided oversight of specialized scheduling program, Sys-Admiral  ? Created and modified custom Perl scripts to automate certain data load processes  ? Worked with clients SLA (Service Level Agreements) to maintain the highest level of quality possible  ? Collaborated with various departments within the TALX, to schedule process and events to meet the clients SLA  ? Upgraded machines from Windows NT to Windows 2000 Server / Professional  ? Monitored and coordinated the loading of data tapes from several companies into an Oracle database  ? Developed technical writing for currently undocumented procedures  ? Audited voice processors to check for problems such as dropped lines, frozen calls, etc.  ? Provided oversight of large WAN using dual Sonnet rings, with frame relay technology.  ? Monitored medium to small size LAN.  ? Implemented and administering desktop operating systems, and cable management for a patch panel passing 4 T3's  ? Administered network operating systems such as NT Server 4.0 and OS/2 Warp.  ? Installed, configured and performed troubleshooting network systems.  ? Exhibited proficiency with IBM and Dell Desktop and Laptop machines  ? Assisted local and mid line users with questions and minor software and hardware problems. Education MCSE Sanford Brown College March 2000 to October 2000 Associates Degree in Computer Sciences St. Louis Community College October 1995 to June 1998 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Group Policy (8 years), Office365 (6 years), Exchange (8 years), Troubles (10+ years), Backups (6 years), Windows 10 (5 years), Windows 7 (8 years), Windows Server 2008 (9 years), Windows Server 2012 R2 (6 years), Android and IOS Devices (10+ years), Firewalls (4 years), Remote Support (8 years), Onsite Support (10+ years)