Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Director of IT - Lowell House Inc Lowell, MA Accomplished IT Professional with over 25 years experience configuring, monitoring, upgrading and  maintaining systems hardware, software and related infrastructure while working with great companies  such as Digital, Lucent Technologies and Hewlett Packard.    Highlights of IT Skills    ? Experience in systems administration, including analyzing, designing, installing, maintaining, and  repairing hardware, software, peripherals, and networks.  ? Superior troubleshooting and technical support abilities with migrations, network connectivity,  and security and database applications.  ? Develop exceptional relationships with co-workers, management and end users.  ? A strong understanding of technology and computer networking  ? Windows 2008 active directory experience  ? Virtual Machine experience  ? WordPress Experience  ? A Google Certified Associate - G Suite Administrator  ? Able to multitask and take on multiple projects simultaneously  ? Intimate knowledge of cloud based products  ? Excellent communication skills and problem solving skills.  ? Ability to manage others from remote locations  ? Ability to work well with minimal supervision  ? SQL/DBA experience  ? Experience with Avaya and Nortel Phone systems and Comcast BVE  ? Credible Behavioral Health EHR Software Admin Work Experience Systems Administrator Lowell House Inc - Lowell, MA May 2016 to Present Hired to provide systems administration support for Microsoft Windows systems including server and workstations, backup and disaster recovery monitoring, user account setup and security administration.  Performed regular system backups and recovery procedures, closely following SOPs to ensure system  security.    ? Avaya IP Office & Administration and Configuration  ? Google G-Suite Administration  ? Credible Inc. Software Database Design & Management  ? Security Solutions  ? Training & Mentoring  ? Technical Support  ? Systems Installation, Configuration & Upgrading  ? Project Management  ? Implemented the company's IT Security Policy  ? Implemented various systems to become compliant with the state of Massachusetts to receive  state funding that included a client portal and DIRECT messaging systems.  ? Designed and Installed physical security measures that included alarms, door buzzers, surveliance  cameras and safety lighting. Systems Administrator 2003 to 2016 IT Technician Travel Anywhere - Bedford, NH 1998 to 2003 Started as an IT Technician at first providing support and troubleshooting hardware and software and later  became the Systems Administrator responsible for all computer, hardware, software and phone systems.    ? Troubleshooting and resolving internet connectivity and general software and hardware issues.  ? Delivered the highest levels of customer satisfaction by communicating expected resolution and completion dates for Service Desk requests.  ? Responsible for resetting employee login credentials using Active Directory, installing and reinstalling software, troubleshooting MS Office and MS Outlook and Exchange. Also provided  assistance and troubleshooting for mobile devices.  ? Documented and escalated incident tickets to the appropriate teams when necessary.  ? Utilized the knowledge base articles in order to resolve incidents or to escalate incidents to the correct teams.  ? Provide timely resolutions to support requests to ensure that Service Level Agreements  ? are met or exceeded.  ? Configured and maintained network equipment (routers, switches, firewalls, wireless routers and access-points).  ? Responsible for remote controlling clients' systems using Team Viewer to resolve incidents.  ? Mapping network printers and drives  ? Researched issues on various computer systems and databases to resolve complaints and answer  inquiries.  ? Diagnose and troubleshoot user issues involving company-owned IT devices including desktops,  laptops, mobile devices, and printers, as well as deliver remote access and network services, and data recovery for inside and outside agents.  ? Assisted employees, vendors and customers with technical issues via email and telephone.  ? Provided real-time support everyday, 365 days a year, 24 hours a day on call for agents.  ? Converted desktops from Windows XP to Windows 7 Test Technician Hewlett Packard - Andover, MA 1995 to 1995 Lucent Technologies - North Andover, MA NOC/Security, 1997 Computer Operator Digital Corp - Andover, MA 1994 to 1994 Education BA in Information Technology Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH 2016 Certificate University of New Hampshire - Manchester, NH 2015 Associate of Arts in Fine Art Photography Academy of Art University - San Francisco, CA 2010 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin