Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Leidos Fredericksburg, VA obtain a career position that will allow me to enhance and grow my job skills    Security Clearance: Active TS/SCI clearance with CI Polygraph Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Leidos - Quantico, VA January 2019 to Present • Performs a range of installation, maintenance and sustainment duties supporting approximately 200 workstations. Coordinated with internal and external offices to resolve customer desktop or connection issues. Perform user account maintenance, operating system and software upgrades, as well as coordinate, track and close helpdesk incident reports.  • Responsible for Client OS and application patch deployment as well as patching standards and process to maintain health across the environment. Also help create and maintain operational procedures as needed to ensure patching success rates and will be the main point of communication for security patching.  • Provided operations and sustainment support including hardware and peripheral connections, troubleshoot hardware and software issues, perform preventive maintenance, apply operating system and application patches, and address findings from workstation security scans.  • Interface with customers and management to plan and prioritize support activities, to conduct reviews, and provide reporting on patching status and any trends seen to help improve the health of the environment. Senior Systems Administrator ManTech - Springfield, VA January 2017 to February 2019 • Provides customer support to users via telephone. Monitor mission systems health by using BMC monitoring tools and monitoring scripts. Creates detailed incident tickets using Remedy Service Center application.  • Provides Remote Resolution for Server and workstation issues using SCCM, Remote Desktop and other Enterprise tools provided. Remotely log into remote sites UNIX server to examine error logs or perform user level commands. Interacts with site personnel and Tier 3 to resolve issues.  • Performs Remote maintenance for workstations and servers. Will provide paging alerts to appropriate program, VDM and Customer personnel. Update PSOC logs of daily service and support activities. Provide Microsoft and UNIX server administration. Senior Systems Administrator NJVC - Springfield, VA June 2016 to January 2017 • Provided customer support to users via telephone. Monitored mission systems health by using BMC monitoring tools and monitoring scripts. Created detailed incident tickets using Remedy Service Center application.  • Provided Remote Resolution for Server and workstation issues using SCCM, Remote Desktop and other Enterprise tools provided. Remotely log into remote sites UNIX server to examine error logs or perform user level commands. Interacted with site personnel and Tier 3 to resolve issues.  • Performed Remote maintenance for workstations and servers. Will provide paging alerts to appropriate program, VDM and Customer personnel. Updated PSOC logs of daily service and support activities. Provide Microsoft and UNIX server administration. Help Desk Technician 2 NJVC - Springfield, VA June 2015 to June 2016 • Operates within the Enterprise Service Center (ESC) that provides incident, problem and change request reporting, tracking and resolution services to internal and external users and customers of the Government Customer's production systems and products, as well as its networks, communications and corporate affairs systems.  • Performs first call resolution and miscellaneous tasks as defined, resolves, updates, and provides guidelines and status on tickets relating to production, products, hardware and software, Windows OS, office automation applications, network management and server systems management. In depth Knowledge of Network and Server troubleshooting.  • Configurations in MS Outlook and MS Office Suite. Troubleshooting profile Issues. Solid overall trouble-shooting skills, utilizing an in house Knowledge Base tool to follow SOPs and established guidelines and folder access, mapping printers, providing shared drive access. Systems Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology - Arlington, VA April 2014 to June 2015 • Manages the functionality and efficiency of a group of computers running on one or more operating systems. Maintains system documentation, set up administrator and service accounts, Interacts with users and evaluates vendor products.  • Installs, supports and maintains servers and other computer systems as well as planning for and responding to service outage and other problems. Configure printers as well as installing ink cartridges, etc. Physical desktop support when software/maintenance needed on workstations. Windows Application administration and support.  • Provides advice and training to end-users. Maintain current knowledge of relevant technologies as assigned. Participates in special projects as required. Help Desk Technician NJVC - Springfield, VA October 2013 to April 2014 • Operates within the Enterprise Service Center (ESC) that provides incident, problem and change request reporting, tracking and resolution services to internal and external users and customers of the Government Customer's production systems and products, as well as its networks, communications and corporate affairs systems.  • Performs first call resolution and miscellaneous tasks as defined, resolves, updates, and provides guidelines and status on tickets relating to production, products, hardware and software, Windows OS, office automation applications, network management and server systems management. In depth Knowledge of Network and Server troubleshooting.  • Configurations in MS Outlook and MS Office Suite. Troubleshooting profile Issues. Solid overall trouble-shooting skills, utilizing an in house Knowledge Base tool to follow SOPs and established guidelines and folder access, mapping printers, providing shared drive access. Help Desk Technician General Dynamics Information Technology - Chantilly, VA June 2012 to October 2013 • Responsible for fixing customers' workstations from a remote location. Ensure the highest level of customer service during a call from a customer. Making sure everything is done to fix the customers' problem before escalating the problem to a higher team. Maintain quality tickets with correct information. Apply diagnostic techniques to identify problems, investigate causes, and recommend solutions Strong customer service, communication, and writing skills. Solid overall trouble-shooting skills, utilizing an in house Knowledge Base tool to follow SOPs and established guidelines  • Provide end-user software troubleshooting and support, provide troubleshooting and support across various networks. Assist in administration duties to e-mail systems. Performs first call resolution and miscellaneous tasks as defined. Provide telephone and help-desk support for local and off-site users. Install, configures, and upgrades computer hardware and software. Folder access, mapping printers, providing shared drive access, etc. Troubleshooting profile issues. Configurations in MS Outlook and MS Office Suite Access Control Officer/Security Monitor Ward Solutions - Springfield, VA January 2010 to October 2012 Responsible for controlling access into secured spaces without proper clearance. Monitor un-cleared personnel working in cleared space. Operated elevator that escorted un-cleared personnel onto various cleared spaces. Ensured un-cleared personnel were escorted into the cleared workspaces. Checked badges on a regular basis to ensure personnel had high enough clearance to be in workspace. Dock Manager/Data Entry Specialist Raytheon Technical Solutions Center - Springfield, VA November 2008 to September 2012 • Responsible for controlling access into secured loading dock without proper clearances. Making sure loading dock is free of clutter.  • Responsible for inputting daily logs of materials received and deliveries made to loading dock.  • Responsible for troubleshooting minor issues with Windows OS on laptop during construction period. Helped configure email accounts for employees using laptop. Courier/Data Entry Specialist Raytheon Technical Solutions Center - Springfield, VA February 2006 to November 2008 • Responsible for delivering packages to secured sites around DC metro area.  • Responsible for logging incoming and outgoing mail. Help maintain fleet of vehicles that were used on daily basis for job.  • Helped troubleshoot minor windows office issues on computers within office. Responsible for inputting facility trouble calls into ticketing system. Responsible for following up with customer to make sure issue has been resolved. Closed out tickets after issues have been resolved. Education Field Senior High School - Woodbridge, VA 2000 to 2004 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Linux, System Admin