Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - GDIT Bedford, IN Work Experience Systems Administrator GDIT 2018 to Present -Coordinate, assess and oversee the requirements and full lifecycle of NMCI services  -Service Management including Moves/Adds/Changes, CLIN Orders, New Services, Seat    Refresh, Scheduling/Inventory/Operational Acceptance, S&T, Mobile, Wireless  -Device Management including Inventory Mgmt & Warranty Repair/Replacement, Print Services, Disposal of SIPR Hard Drives & EOL Printers, Missing, Lost, Stolen, Damaged Process  -Technical Support  - Purebred agent to configure GOV cellular devices for use with BlackBerry UEM Client  Business Process Analyst Associate CSRA 2016 to 2018 System Analyst Associate CSC/CSCGov 2012 to 2016 Systems Admin/CSR Zero Chaos & MTI 2011 to 2012 Programmer Analyst Alion Science & Technology 2009 to 2010 Systems Admin/CSR EDS, Zero Chaos & EDO 2005 to 2009 Deployment Technician Networks Plus 2002 to 2003 Employed by CSC/CSCGov/CSRA/GDIT at Crane Naval Base in Indiana doing CTR work on the NMCI contract. Responsibilities included:    -Coordinate, assess and oversee the requirements and full lifecycle of NMCI services  -Service Management including Moves/Adds/Changes, CLIN Orders, New Services, Seat Refresh, Scheduling/Inventory/Operational Acceptance, S&T, Mobile, Wireless  -Device Management including Inventory Mgmt & Warranty Repair/Replacement, Print Services, Disposal of SIPR Hard Drives & EOL Printers, Missing, Lost, Stolen, Damaged Process  -Technical Support  - Purebred agent to configure GOV cellular devices for use with BlackBerry UEM Client    Employed by Networks Plus, EDO, Zero Chaos, MTI and EDS on the NMCI project at Crane Naval Base in Indiana. Responsibilities included:    Interim Service Delivery Leader, Crane Site Group  -Responsible for day to day operations of Crane Field Services Staff.  -Ensure proper ticket handing procedures.  -Coordinate with delivery and requisition teams to provide customer services.  -Ensure service to over 5000 customer seats site wide.  -Assist ACTR in design and delivery of new services.  -Primary technical point of contact for ACTR.  -Attend design and feasibility meetings.    Field Service Technician  -Troubleshoot and repair customer issues.  -Work with NOC services to escalate issues.  -Properly document work and ensure tickets comply to established standards..  -Primary remote troubleshooting FST.  -Primary Blackberry and Printer FST.    Queue Manager, Crane Site Group  -Manage FST work flow to achieve FST productivity 2.5 times Enterprise average.  -Train FST in proper processes and procedure.  -Ensure proper ticket handing procedures.  -Track assets from order to delivery.  -Submit drop install requests to EDS/GFS.  -Ensure time is submitted promptly and correctly by FST.  -Primary customer contact.  -Primary point of contact for FST for problem escalation to NOC services.  -Primary technical point of contact for FST.  -Used NET (Navy Enterprise Tool)    Employed by Alion Science and Technology to provide onsite PC hardware and software support at an office in Bloomington, IN with minimal supervision:    -Maintained small networked office.  -Installed new systems on the network.  -Loaded OS and required software.  -Connected network printers.  -Performed troubleshooting for various software and hardware issues  -Created user accounts in Active Directory then imported users into Sharepoint  -Assigned required group rights in Sharepoint for users Education Ivy Tech State College - Bloomington, IN Skills SECURITY, PRINTERS, MAINTENANCE, LAN, System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information Skill Summary  14 years of experience in the IT field. Implement and support LAN hardware and software. Demonstrated ability to contact suppliers and resolve issues. Work well with customers in providing support for hardware, software and LAN solutions. Performed maintenance and repairs on network printers. Trained customers on process and procedures in relation to their work environment.    Security Clearance  Secret security clearance granted.