Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lyndhurst, NJ Proactive IT professional with 15+ years of experience specializing in enhancing operational efficiency while quickly adapting to ever changing technology. Seeking a position to utilize my tenacious drive to succeed in a team driven organization that encourage innovative thinking and opportunities for personal growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Samsung Electronics America - New York, NY January 2016 to April 2018 • Configured VMware including traffic-counting systems in Samsung's new   Technology Experiential Hub in NYC.  • Consulted with marketing and IT security staff to identify and protect the   company's highly secure data and monitored for unauthorized disclosures.  • Established and maintained fluid interoperability between the Marketing   department and Technology Experiential Hub.  • Managed Samsung Knox operations to control corporate data accessed   by employees and to avoid compromising data security.  • Facilitated communication between departments while providing level 2/3   network support including system monitoring and troubleshooting to   resolve issues. Microsoft Exchange & Domino Administrator Marsh & McLennan Companies - Hoboken, NJ July 2005 to January 2014 • Successfully mastered networking concepts such as DNS, DHCP, Email,   HTTP, SSL, and TCP/IP protocols and applications.  • Played an instrumental role in 50,000 users migration project - Lotus   Domino and Microsoft Exchange databases.  • Performed advanced troubleshooting skills in a multi-user, high pressure   environment.  • Supported clients in various office locations while working with a ticketing   and monitoring system. Lotus Notes Administrator Glaxo Smith Kline - Parsippany, NJ January 2005 to July 2005 • Effectively communicated with the infrastructure team in designing and   configuring back end mail-files and databases. Technical Lead Cadbury and Pfizer Inc. - Parsippany, NJ July 2003 to January 2005 • Demonstrated strong interpersonal skills by cultivating relationships with   co-workers from different disciplines with varying degrees of technical   experience.  • Expertly shown comprehensive knowledge of Microsoft Administration   and Linux Administration.  • Mentored junior/I.T interns to learn and succeed in their projects. Helpdesk Analyst Danone - Tarrytown, NY May 2001 to May 2003 • Maintained clients' satisfaction through excellent communication and   assisted associates and executive level clients with desktop related items.  • Served as a vital resource for both VPN and firewall end-point   applications. Education Information Technology Chubb Institute - Parsippany, NJ 1998 to 1999 Skills Lotus Notes, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Window Servers, E-Discovery, TCP/IP, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, VMWARE, VCENTER, DNS, Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/tom318 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ July 2015 to July 2018 Security Plus certifications. Additional Information In addition to my extensive work experience, I have excellent collaborative skills. I always maintain a professional relationship with all my coworkers and also able to communicate effectively while collaborating in coming up with resolutions during various projects.