Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Toyota Technical Center Dundee, MI Work Experience Systems Administrator Toyota Technical Center - Saline, MI October 2016 to Present Related Skills: New Supplier setups, Current Supplier maintenance, Administrator for ToyotaSupplier.com and application within. Budget Coordinator, Monitor Union Expirations, Monitor Purchase Order Errors, Scheduling Meetings, Moderation of Conference Rooms    Maintaining all new vendor setups and vendor maintenance. Maintain all tickets submitted for help with the ToyotaSupplier.com website. Manage all posting updated on ToyotaSupplier.com. Assist AMS team with testing and trials of applications. Create new users in ToyotaSupplier.com. Assist supplier administrators with managing their users accounts. Oversee the Budgets for Risk Management, Systems and Knowledge Management. Run the monthly Union Expiration Report and make updates as necessary. Run the PO exceptions report weekly to notify buyers of any issues. Analyzing various data sets.  Key Contributions:  Simplifying the Current Vendor Maintenance process.  Assist AMS team with testing and trials for the ToyotaSupplier.com system.  Kaizen improvements implemented for ToyotaSupplier.com and Vendor Processes  Starting the transfer of corporate wide training into LMS - Learning Management System Accounting Specialist North American Stamping Group - Portland, TN January 2014 to August 2016 Related Skills: Accounts Payable, Invoicing, Data Entry, Expense Reports, Sales Reports, Account Analysis, NAFTA Forms, analyzing AP trends. Negotiating prices for office supplies and employee recognition celebration expenses.  Oversee invoicing including timely data entry, product verification, and purchase approval. Standard 3-way match of invoice, packing slip, purchase order. Monitor monthly expenses, analyze account statuses to budget, and generate sales reports daily. Invoice customers daily. Maintain daily scrap sales spreadsheet. Coordinate new vendor setup. Weekly check run selection. Key member of the Month End Close Team. Coordinate month end receiving cutoff for raw material. Run month end AP Aging; tie to GL. Run month end AP Accrual report. Prepare month end miscellaneous AP Accrual spreadsheet. Maintain and order office supplies and manage petty cash and receipts. Submit NAFTA certifications in a timely manner. Filled in at the front desk of the corporate office answering phone calls and all walk ins as well as customers. Complete special assignments as assigned by the corporate controller and the CFO.    Key Contribution:  • Implemented inventory management system for receiving products which has been implemented as standard procedure and is still the standard process. Store Associate Burkes Outlet - Franklin, KY 2012 to 2015 Related Skills: Customer Assistance, Cash Register  Cashier responsibilities. Floor responsibilities. Assistant any other associate when needed. Put out stock. Tag all required clothing with ink tags.  Key Contributions:  • Kept store and dressing rooms clean.  • Kept assigned area neat Office Manager Wheat Tech - Russellville, KY 2011 to 2014 Related Skills: Administration, Clerical Tasks, Office Equipment Operation, Spreadsheets, Word Processing, Data Entry, Database Management, Filing, Scheduling and Calendar Management, Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, Payroll Administration, Human Resources  Reinforced administrative staff by answering and directing phone calls, greeting customers, setting up and maintaining paper and electronic filing systems, and managing incoming correspondence. Created copies of printed materials and maintained schedule and event calendars. Arranged meeting sites and catering. Found housing for relocation. Developed and distributed meeting notes, internal correspondence, and reports. Assisted with Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, and Payroll Administration. Received and recorded bank cash and checks, compiled reports and tables for cash flow and profits and losses, reported discrepancies, and prepared trial balances. Made Bank Deposits. Prepared and issued invoices, account statements, and payroll information. Recorded bank transactions and assisted with tax returns.  Key Contributions:  • Leveraged strengths in data analysis to verify accuracy in database and documents.  • Recognized for setting up, launching, and maintaining direct deposit for payroll.  ** ** ***  Additional experience:  Problem Solving- Collaboration, communication and research  Time Management- Goal setting and prioritization  Team Leader for AISIN owned company Education Bachelor of Arts in Business in Business Columbia Southern University - Orange Beach, AL Associate of Arts in Business Technology & Business Management in Business Technology & Business Management Western Kentucky University - Bowling Green, KY Skills ACCOUNTS PAYABLE, OFFICE SUPPLIES, PAYROLL, ACCOUNTING, ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, SCHEDULING, DATA ANALYSIS, PROBLEM SOLVING, NAFTA, PROBLEM SOLVER, System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information Areas of Expertise  • Administration: ToyotaSupplier.com knowledge and help. Skilled in operating and maintaining 10-key calculators, fax machines, copiers, phone systems, and computers for productivity tasks. Proficient in organizing files, analyzing data, scheduling appointments, and managing office supplies. Schedule meetings set up space and order lunch. Arrange travel and hotel when needed.  • Accounting: Solid background in Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, and Payroll Administration. Creative problem solver recognized for strengths in data analysis, accuracy, and attention to detail. NAFTA Certification knowledge.  • Team Leadership: Multifaceted leader with proven abilities in communication, problem solving, and conflict resolution. Effectively train staff in daily procedures and receive additional responsibilities when needed.    • Additional Strengths: Technologically savvy; proficient in Microsoft Office Suite, QuickBooks, and Shop Edge - a custom MRP system. Rapidly learn, comprehend, and apply new software. I have worked in fast food and retail, so I am very customer savvy.