Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Central Power Systems and Services Kansas City, MO Work Experience Systems Administrator Central Power Systems and Services - Liberty, MO June 2017 to Present • Structure and implement new IT Department for the company.  • Create and implement Help Desk procedures, documentation, and policies.  • Active Directory administration: group policy, new users, hardware management.  • Assisted in managing projects for software deployment, infrastructure upgrades, and hardware deployment.  • Train IT staff and end users.  • Create procedures and documentation for the Help Desk.  • Inventory management.  • Mobile device support for IOS, Android, hotspot, and Android tablets.  • Follow workflow procedures, prioritize incoming request, and escalate tickets to the proper channels.  • Implement Helpdesk 'Fresh Desk" ticket management.  • Create permission and access requests and approval process.    Provide day-to-day support of the following functions:  - TCP IP protocol  - LAN & WAP Network connection and management.  - Email and network security.  - Print server and local printing maintenance.  - Hardware repair  - Adobe Acrobat, DC, and Flash  - Java Remote Desktop Support  - Telecommunication Management  - Third party application account management.  - VPN connectivity  - File server access permissions.  - Mobile device support  - Folder access  - Password resets  - Domain access and trust  - VOIP  - Microsoft Office: 2010, 2016, 365 support and deployment.  - Remote support; RDP, TeamViewer.  - Windows XP, 7, 10 Professional support and deployment. Helpdesk Analyst WireCo World Group - Prairie Village, KS June 2015 to June 2017 • Front line Help Desk support.  • First responder to all incoming communications for IT support. Remote assist users via SCCM, WebEx, RDP, and TeamViewer, Remote Desk Top.  • Generate work order tickets through BMC Track-It; provide accurate documentation while assigning ticket to proper technicians.  • Appropriately categorize and escalate high priority issues to technicians directly.  • Monitor emails quarantined through Cisco Iron Port.  • Install drivers, updates, and approved downloads on desktops and Laptops.  • Assist and train users on Codian and Clear Sea Video Conferencing.  • Cable management  • Provide technical support for mobile devices.  • Assign, and deploy mobile devices.  • Assist in managing I.T. inventory by documenting/ticketing, adding and removing objects in Active Directory.  • On call 24/7 for user assistance.  • Maintain professional customer service and develop professional relationship within the company and business that offer third party support.  • Work with a team of I.T. professionals and collaborate on projects, as well as the maintenance requirements of our infrastructure.  • Troubleshoot and researcher to support day-to-day operations.  • Create Windows 7 Images in line with company standards and procedures using Windows AIK Tools.  • Assisted users day-to-day globally in the following areas:    - Network connections  - Citrix Access, user management  - JD Edwards  - Microsoft Office 2010 & 2016  - Microsoft 365 applications  - Computer hardware  - Cisco desk phones, mobile phones  - Network Access  - Administrative needs  - Codian, Clear Sea, and Skype  - Network drive access  - Account password resets  - Printer mapping and servicing    - Server connection Stylist Sport Clips - Kansas City, MO April 2014 to February 2015 • Ensured customer satisfaction by providing highest quality of products and hair care service by ensuring proper technique and active listening.  • Exceeded customer product sales.  • Responsible for creating a safe and clean work environment.  • Planned work and determined appropriate tools for client services.  • Described use and operation of merchandise to clients.  • Received and processed cash and credit payments for in-store purchases.  • Demonstrated that customers come first by serving them with a sense of urgency.  • Worked as a team member to provide the highest level of customer service to customers.  • Maintained friendly and professional customer interactions. Stylist Barber August 2006 to July 2013 Navy Exchange Service Command Patuxent River, MD    • Ensured customer satisfaction by providing highest quality of products and hair care service by ensuring proper technique and active listening.  • Responsible for creating a safe and clean work environment.  • Planned work and determined appropriate tools for client services.  • Described use and operation of merchandise to clients.  • Received and processed cash and credit payments for in-store purchases.  • Demonstrated that customers come first by serving them with a sense of urgency.  • Worked as a team member to provide the highest level of customer service to customers.  • Maintained friendly and professional customer interactions. Communication Technician Willen Communication LLC - Mechanicsville, MD October 1999 to April 2001 • Provided on-site support for device troubleshooting to include cable testing/replacement and media handling support.  • Assisted with technology installation, which includes setting up cabinets, racking equipment, and cabling devices.  • Routed cabling threw office cubes.  • Responded to and update tickets in accordance with department procedure.  • Assisted in building and IT closets.  • Punched down cubical face plates.  • Decommissioned cabling threw out data center.  • Effectively worked with a team to complete various projects.  • Ensured data center is clean and in tour-ready condition. Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin Certifications/Licenses MTA August 2015 to Present