Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Bright Homes Ripon, CA Professional experienced in accounting clerical functions, desktop support, and network configuration. Knowledge of system administration, hardware and software troubleshooting and network management in the private sector. Personable team player offering advanced technical knowledge and a can-do attitude. Work Experience Systems Administrator Bright Homes - Modesto, CA September 2005 to Present Troubleshoot and maintain all networking devices and infrastructure across the enterprise including  switches, routers and firewalls.  Test and evaluate software to improve performance and usability.  Review logs for all networking devices for unresolved abnormalities and problems.  Complete remote repairs involving software solutions and hardware repairs.  Serve as a liaison between the user community and software providers.  Resolve virus and malware issues  Format and Install software and operating systems on company computers as needed.  Set up and configure hardware and software on company equipment.  Maintain accurate hardware and software inventories.  Restore data, operating systems, files, documents and drivers.  Resolve computer hardware and software, printing, installation, word processing, email and operating  systems issues.  Order necessary supplies and parts to repair malfunctioning hardware.  Provide IT support and training to non-technical personnel within the business. Accounts Receivable specialist Professional Apartment Management - Lodi, CA October 2003 to October 2005 Posted receipts to appropriate general ledger accounts.  Entered numerical data into databases in a timely and accurate manner.  Audited files and reported any issues requiring follow-up to program manager. Accounts Payable Specialist Ewing Irrigation - Phoenix, AZ September 2001 to September 2003 Responsible for matching, setting up and reconciling inventory vendor accts for over 120 branches.  problem solving and inventory adjustments.  Ensuring that product is received at branch level timely to take full advantage of any discounts Education Associate in Computer Science Modesto Junior College - Modesto, CA June 2017 Skills Time Management, Accounts Payable, Microsoft Office, Excel, Office Experience, Microsoft Word, Accounting, QuickBooks Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS  Accounts Payable and Receivable with strong focus in Property Management  Remote access support Strong communication skills  Mobile devices Network connectivity knowledge  Desktop and laptop repair Network maintenance  Data backup and recovery systems System backups  Antivirus and spam blocking Excellent diagnostic skills  Internal components installation Analytical and critical thinker  User account creation Fast learner  System upgrades experience with TCP/IP and WAN