Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - GVA-TWN Brook Park, OH Work Experience Systems Administrator GVA-TWN - Cleveland, OH March 2019 to Present Managed Corporate Office of 50+ employees and workstations. Maintained Hyper-V Servers, VMware Servers, Windows server 2003 through Server 2016. Successfully implemented a new backup plan for older legacy servers. Maintained and updated existing hardware. Shortel VoIP, Sonicwall, Dell PowerEdge Switches. Just started the imaging rollout of Windows 10 Pro to all of the 40 stores POS terminals. Worked with Microsoft Dynamics Retail Management Systems and SQL databases. Decommissioned (6) Legacy Server 2003 servers. Successfully implemented and installed new Server 2008R2 Print Server to replace aging Server 2000. Responsible for onsite support to all 40 retail locations. Worked remotely to all users with VNC, LogMeIn, and Remote Desktop. Setup new users on the Domain Controller and applied appropriate permissions. Maintained Exchange Mail Server. Configured backup schedule for mail database. Monitored and supported corporate office and retail stores Wi-Fi networks. Supported warehouse shipping department with V-Ship software and thermal label printers. Printer support and maintenance for fleet of multifunction copiers and desktop printers. Technical Support Specialist Pressco Technology Inc - Solon, OH May 2018 to March 2019 As Technical Support Specialist, responsible for technical support of all Pressco branded vision systems. Answered phones, email, and onsite support to over 7,000 customers worldwide. Quickly learned custom vision systems to assist customers with issues. Typical issues involve gateway connections, camera communications, and new system installs. On customer sites several weeks on the road assisting with new installs and service calls. Jr. Systems Administrator A.J. Rose Manufacturing - Avon, OH August 2014 to May 2018 As Jr. Systems Administrator, managed the Avon, Avon Lake, and Cleveland facilities. Responsible for 350+ employees and their workstations. Focused on Microsoft Exchange management, Active Directory maintenance, and Group Policy management. Application support for all business critical software.  Accomplishments:  • Planned, documented, configured, purchased, and installed over 75+ IP cameras between plant locations to maintain high security and plant safety. Setup & installed new Exacq Vision camera servers.  • Reconfigured and cleaned server & phone rooms. Neatly installed new cabling to replace old.  • Strategized and implemented new Siemens NX9 install and configurations for Engineering Department.  • Scheduled 200+ computers for Windows 7 upgrade. Successfully imaged new computers and deployed throughout the company. IT Help Desk Manager Fidelity Systems - Fairview Park, OH March 2013 to August 2014 Responsible for day-to-day network health of three enterprise level clients. Started with desktop support but quickly grew to encompass support for servers, switches, firewalls, and company backups. Provided project and systems management for clients. Proceeded to become a trusted and integral part of the business, running all day-to-day operations, and providing guidance that allowed the business to grow and thrive.  Accomplishments:  • Successfully engineered all aspects of a comprehensive help desk ticketing system to manage 400+ users, trained new staff on procedures, managed service tickets, and project requests.  • Key contributor to large scale projects including new site setups and Windows 7 migrations in order to maintain HIPPA compliancy.  • Performed numerous server and network management tasks on a regular basis, including but not limited to Active Directory account creation/modification, Cisco switch firmware upgrades, patch management, RAID array rebuild and reconfiguration, DHCP and DNS Management, GPO Management, and Microsoft Exchange Management. Retail Service Specialist O'Reilly Auto parts - North Olmsted, OH March 2012 to March 2013 Key holder and shift leader. Opened and closed retail store according to management. Assisted customers finding the correct parts for their repairs/projects. Successfully met sales goals for the store each month and worked efficiently in a team environment. Completed monthly cycle counts to maintain accurate store inventory. Service/Store Manager Next Energy Store - Kirtland, OH August 2006 to August 2011 Managed office and service center of local HVAC Company. Provided technical support on products and offered advice on repairs. Educated customers on features and benefits of products. Updated company website to reflect current offerings and maintain accuracy. Processed online orders, walk-ins, and phone orders. Maintained high level of customer support to achieve customer satisfaction and build rapport. Responsible for resolving customer refunds, warranties, and service concerns in a professional manor. Internal IT support of switches, routers, printers, servers, and workstations. Education Associate of Business in Networking and Software in Business Cuyahoga Community College - Cleveland, OH 2014 Certificate of Proficiency Cuyahoga Community College - Cleveland, OH 2014 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, EXCHANGE, NETWORKING, MIGRATIONS, VOIP, MICROSOFT EXCHANGE, ORGANIZATIONAL SKILLS, END USER SUPPORT, CABLING, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware Additional Information Technical Proficiencies  • Project Management  • VoIP Phones Cisco/Shortel  • Troubleshooting/Resolution    • Active Directory Management  • Networking/Cabling  • Migrations/Upgrades    • End User Support  • Microsoft Exchange  • Organizational Skills