Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Norwood, OH Knowledgeable and versatile systems administrator with nine years of industry experience. Possesses a robust skill set that spans all aspects of managing and supporting a corporate network environment. Loves learning and has a knack for assimilating new systems and procedures. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Burke, Inc. - Cincinnati, OH April 2017 to Present • Responsible for entire Exchange infrastructure, including upgrading of Exchange servers, as well as design and deployment of a hybrid Exchange 2013/Exchange Online environment  • Coordinate planning and implementation of migration to the Microsoft 365 cloud, as well as oversee day to day support of the entire Office 365 tenant.  • Manage configuring and monitoring of telephony systems, supporting an environment running Cisco Unified Communications Manager and Cisco Unity, utilizing both IP and analog phones  • Maintain and troubleshoot LAN/WAN network infrastructure, including configurating and updating of routers, switches, and VPNs, across multiple branch and home offices.  • Assist with support of Windows domain environment, including Active Directory and Group Policy  • Part of a 24/7 on-call rotation for network downtime or high priority technical issues that may occur after hours  • Contributed to design, configuration, and implementation of networking infrastructure for new branch offices   • Streamlined processes for deploying and updating software on end-user PCs, by utilizing Microsoft SCCM  • Increased efficiency for various reoccurring tasks by creating PowerShell scripts to automate processes and workflows Desktop Support Technician Burke, Inc. - Cincinnati, OH April 2014 to April 2017 • Initiated complete redesign of imaging process, utilizing MDT and Windows ADK, greatly reducing time and cost of setting up new laptops and desktops   • Oversaw rollout of Windows 10 upgrade for entire company, including testing and deployment  • Performed all levels of desktop support for a user base of approximately 300, both on-site and at remote offices Desktop Support Apex Systems - Amsterdam, NY 2010 to 2014 • Provided Tier 2/3 hardware and software support for all of St. Mary's Healthcare, including the main hospital campus and off-site clinics, both remotely and on-site.  • Installed, configured, and performed maintenance on networked Laser printers and Label printers. (HP, Dell, Datamax, Ricoh, Canon)  • Managed and supported Desktop Refresh Cycle for entire site including the scheduling, configuring, and maintaining of inventory.  • Part of project team responsible for the planning and testing of Windows 7 deployment for entire site. Education Associate in Network Administration McCANN School of Business & Technology - Sunbury, PA April 2010 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, Exchange Server, Cloud Computing, PBX, Network Administration, Microsoft System Communications Configuration Manager (SCCM), Cisco Unified Communications Manager, Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT), Microsoft Office 365, Azure, Exchange Online, Symantec Messaging Gateway, Hyper-V, Vmware, SIP Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ 2009 to Present CompTIA A+ 2009 to Present Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/b6bqwnlgiyqzvdrd Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xxg8bvjujgprdimx Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Skills  • Microsoft 365 (Admin portal, Azure, Exchange Online, Teams, Office)  • Microsoft Dynamics CRM (On-premise)  • Microsoft Server 2008/2012/2016/2019  • Microsoft Exchange  • Cisco Unified Communications & Cisco Unity  • SIP Trunking  • Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM)  • Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT)  • PowerShell  • McAfee EPO  • Symantec Messaging Gateway  • Cisco CLI  • VMWare & Hyper-V  • Solarwinds Orion