Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Ocala, FL Work Experience Systems Administrator Centurion of Florida April 2016 to June 2019 • I managed network and computer systems for over 3,000 users at 55 sites.  • I troubleshot, configured, and installed user workstations and peripheral devices.  • I troubleshot, configured, installed, and managed Cisco Catalyst and HP ProCurve switches.  • I implemented SNMP monitoring and TACACS+ authentication on Cisco Catalyst switches.  • I configured a Fortinet FortiAnalyzer and managed a FortiGate firewall and two Aruba Access Points.  • I performed moves, adds, and changes in Microsoft Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange Server.  • I made changes to extensions in 8x8 Virtual Office.  • I troubleshot and configured file shares on Windows Server 2012.  • I installed and configured Kronos 4500 and InTouch time clocks.  • I responded to technical questions from users and provided technical assistance as required. Network Engineer II Sprint October 2013 to December 2015 • I worked with customers to install and verify 1,500 Fortinet firewalls for IPSec Site-to-Site VPN.  • I worked with customers to troubleshoot routing, switching, and firewall issues in Cisco and multivendor networks to allow for a successful installation.  • I utilized FortiManager to configure and push firmware updates to Fortigate firewalls.  • I verified and documented Fortinet service contract registrations.  • I performed required documentation for each move, add, or change.  3240 SW 34th Street Apt. 406  Ocala, FL 34474  (954) 684-5694  lisacarr@agredon.com    Consultant Consultant US Navy February 2005 to October 2013 • I installed, configured, upgraded, and troubleshot workstations, POS devices, servers, routers, switches, and IP phones.  • I performed disk imaging, data backup and restoration, and operating system migrations.  • Some companies who I worked on projects for include Allstate, Best Buy, Bibby USA, Cleveland Clinic, Home Depot, Kohl's, Merrill Lynch, Mondelez, Morgan Stanley, Social Security  Administration, UBS Paine Webber, US Navy, US Postal Service, and US Senate. Lab Assistant Pensacola Junior College September 2001 to December 2001 • I provided individualized assistance with hands-on labs for the Cisco NetAcademy program.  • I administered student workstations, Cisco routers and Cisco Catalyst switches. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of West Florida - Pensacola, FL Associate of Applied Science in Network Services Technology in Network Services Technology Pensacola Junior College - Pensacola, FL Skills Active directory, Bgp, Catalyst, Cisco, Dhcp