Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Baltimore, MD ? Certified Linux Systems Administrator with 6+ years of experience in a Red Hat Linux environment  ? Large-scale and enterprise level experience, having serviced 2000 users and 250 servers with Sears  Holdings and 3000 users and 400 servers with Thomson Reuters  ? Hands-on experience with the installation, configuration and maintenance of Active Directory, Windows  Server, DHCP, and DNS in a Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) environment Work Experience Systems Administrator Thomson Reuters January 2016 to Present Installation, configuration and connecting RHEL 6, Centos 6.4 servers to a network using standard installation and Kickstart.   • Hardening, and patching both Red Hat 6 and centos servers and upgrade new release on standalone servers (using single user mode), and on production servers.   • Managing Linux Operating Systems.   • Perform maintenance of file system; create cron jobs for periodic processes.   • Manage crash and core dump files, archive, compress files and send to vendors.   Configure Apache, Mysql on centos and Red Hat 6 for virtual and web hosting, building and hosting websites, install and configure samba for quick publishing using third party web page maker.   • Perform users and security account management.   • Setup, configure and troubleshoot TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, NFS, CIFS, JIRA and Samba servers in a multi platform LAN.   • Bash scripting to schedule and automate processes.   • Manage swap configurations.   • Scheduling of automatic and repetitive jobs using shell scripts with crontab.   Constant hands on Linux network environments.   • Perform multi platform volume management using LVM and VCS volume manager.   • Monitoring logs on Linux servers including processes crash and swap management, with password recovery and performance tuning.   • Experienced in Active Directory,AWS and Virtualization (VMware Esxi 5.5 and Oracle Virtual Box).   • Responsible for data management using centos and Red Hat utilities for archiving, compression backup and restoration.   • Review server platforms, installations and configurations to ensure corporate and industry standard were followed.   • Configure LDAP, DHCP and DNS.   • Provide 24/7 support in a production and staging environment.   Working knowledge of firewalls and switches.   • Supporting systems and troubleshooting system issues.   • Documenting solutions for future reference.   • Maintaining system configuration and log files and system error logs.   • Responsible in part of the ticketing system.   • Installing and maintaining the operating system and related software products.   • Participating in root-cause analysis of recurring issues, system backup and security setup.   • Configuration of LVM (Logical Volume Management) to manage volume group, logical and physical partitions and new importing physical volumes.   • Maintained System Security and ensured systems are up to date with current patches and backups/restores were completed without flaw.   • Experienced using Centos and RedHat Satellite server to deploy, monitor, update, and manage sy systems.   • Involved in complete Administration tasks on Centos and RedHat Linux and documentation for the projects executed.   • Monitored DNS, LDAP, Kickstart, IPChains/IPTables firewall, SSH, MYSQL, and User Administration.   • Install/Configure new Linux servers running RedHat and Centos  • Perform fault isolation for all Linux systems to prevent re-occurrences of problematic processes.   • Monitor system backups and restore files as needed.   • Wrote Bash script for content push, setup multiple user accounts, configuration and to compress files. System Administrator SEARS HOLDINGS INC October 2014 to December 2015 Sears Holdings Inc. - Predominantly Remote  ? Overall, responsible for servicing 1,500 to 2,000 end users and 250 servers  ? Installation and configuration of Linux servers for new build environment.  ? Experience in creating virtual servers and connect it to a network.  ? Experience with Active Directory, AWS and Virtualization  ? Active Directory - Replication, Backup/Restore Services, Security Services, Group Policy and Auditing  ? Analyzed the feasibility of proposed solutions for Active Directory, Messaging System, Outlook web access,  scheduling meetings and calendars  ? Installation and configuration databases on Linux platforms.  ? Installation and configuration Dell PowerEdge 2950 servers.  ? Experience in storage administration.  ? Experience in adding Disks and creating Slices as well as File System Administration.  ? Configuring and monitoring Disk mirroring, striping using LVM.  ? Experience in NFS configuration & administration.  ? Experience in kernel re-configuration & parameter tuning.  ? Experience monitoring & troubleshooting with performance related issues System Administrator SUMAL FOODS LTD May 2011 to September 2014 Sumal Foods Ltd. - Ibadan, Nigeria  ? Set up 200+ VM's running CentOS to be used for web, database, application, mail, ftp, monitoring and git  repositories.  ? Installed and configured Red Hat Linux Kickstart and Solaris jumpstart servers.  ? Configuration of hardware and software RAID on Digital & Sun Servers.  ? Installation of Oracle patches and troubleshooting  ? Responsible for configuration and maintaining Active Directory (AD) in a Red Hat Linux environment  ? Creating and modifying application related objects  ? Creating Profiles, Users, Roles and maintaining system security.  ? Configuration and maintenance of NIS, NFS, DHCP and DNS servers on Linux server.  ? Administrative tasks such as System Startup/shutdown, Backup strategy, Printing, Documentation, User  Management, Security, Network management, dumb terminals and devices carried out.  ? Capacity planning of disk space and hardware resources required for production and developments.  ? Responsible for migrating and decommissioning of the system.  ? Responsible to handle the Server Administration and Asterisk Server Installation and Configuration in Linux.  ? Worked as part of Testing Team in Application testing using Manual methods and Scripts.  ? Installed and implemented NAS with RAID 1 and RAID 5 configurations.  ? Monitored load and performance on the infrastructure and added capacity as needed.  ? Installation, configuration and management of PostgreSQL & MySQL database servers.  ? Client interaction for requirement gathering, to design and plan the software and hardware infrastructure.  ? Familiar with Disk Management Utility.  ? Hands-on experience in file system creation and file system management. Education Master's in Accounting University of Maryland-University College February 2015 to June 2019 Skills Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin, Linux Certifications/Licenses Security+ May 2017 to May 2020 Linux+ October 2016 to Present LPIC-1 October 2016 to October 2021 ITIL v3 October 2017 to Present AWS solution architect professional February 2019 to February 2021