Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Fullerton, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator Union III Baghdad, Iraq 2017 to Present Performed system administration in DoD Windows Server 2008/2012 environments. Responsible for day-to-day administration, coordination and operations of IT infrastructure systems with regard to data center patch management process. Responsible for design, configuration, testing, deployment and ongoing operational support of the patch management process. Coordinated patch management activities for data center environments, including patch management for server environments, server infrastructure and related patching requirements. Deployed QA patches and create deployment schedules on a quarterly basis as well as auditing for completeness. Reviewed security and other patches for use in the production environment. Created a sustainable, repeatable patch management procedure that adheres to government policy. 24/7x365 Operation Center Monitoring and Maintenance. Ensured change management requirements were met, including the coordination of testing. Stayed informed regarding advances in patch management technologies. Assisted in implementation of new technologies and processes. Reported on patch management status in staff meetings. Managed, participated and completed tasks on-time with infrastructure. System Administrator Air Force Central Command- Al Udeid Air Base Qatar 2016 to 2017 -2016  Provided on-site support for deployment and security remediation functions. Gathered analyzed, and reported end-user support trends. Provided desktop, application and network application incident resolution. Managed user installation and relocations requests. Conducted physical inventory of assets, scheduled and random electronic inventories. Assisted in receiving and receipting property. Transferred property to other organizations. Processed computer equipment for excess and disposition. 24/7x365 Operation Center Monitoring and Maintenance. Disposal Preparation Support. Ensured disposal policies and procedures are employed. Ensured every device is wiped/degaussed prior to site removal. Administered and managed encryption tools application server. Ensured laptops are properly encrypted. Provided password recovery for encrypted device. Troubleshot system problems and repairs. Worked with support staff for remote troubleshooting and repairs. Assisted in setting up presentation devices and Video Conference units. Assisted users with mobile communication devices (mobile phones, broadband cards, Blackberrys, and laptops) with incident support tickets. Provided Tier 2 support in the field which includes hardware troubleshooting and OS re-install, Blackberry Exchange Server connection verification and equipment swapping support -Service Center Services. Ensured IT services are rendered/tested for telework users using -VPN and CITRIX services. Provided remote support services for telework/home users. Supported pre/post application releases. Identified and resolve hardware incidents and service requests of a consumable part. Help Desk Administrator NAVFAC - Port Hueneme, CA 2015 to 2016 Managed, maintained, and sustained a Microsoft Windows environment and hosted applications. Supported Windows Server 2003/2008 administration including sustainment and maintenance of virtual Windows servers with VMWare. Applied hardware component updates, tested system software and hardware components. Configured servers for load balancing, redundancy, and failovers. Administrated network devices (DNS, Active Directory, LDAP, network devices, peripheral devices, switches, cables, port panels). Ensured compliance with STIGs, update configuration documentation. Performed Server Build and Configuration. Provided the installation, configuration, and sustainment servers. Updated servers with newer hardware components and parts. Tested system software and hardware components. Configured servers for standalone or virtual environment as required. Performed Software Installations, Upgrades and Configurations. Provided the installation and operation of OS and server administration tools in the NITC hosting environments. Researched, analysed impact, installed, and tested software updates, patches and hot fixes. Managed and maintained user and group accounts and Group Policy Objects (GPO). Provided support for user and file management. Ensured compatibility of utility and applications software with the OS, Ensured connectivity and interoperability between systems. Participate in the testing of system software components. Scheduled newly configured system for backup to include operating systems and file systems. Developed and tested scripts to automate recurring system administration functions and provide supporting documentation. Defense Message System Administrator United States Marine Corps Multiple Locations 2010 to 2015 Marine Corps Base Camp Foster G6 ITSS - Okinawa, Japan & Camp Pendleton G6    Assisted users with information management services. Trained users in the use of new software applications, provided guidance and assistance with new policies and procedures. Set up, administered and supported software and hardware digital conferencing systems. Promoted end-user involvement in technology and technical decision-making. Installed, operated, and maintained new hardware and software applications. Ensured that IT operations comply with Department of Defense and federal government operating and security policies and practices, and ensured that applicable management controls are implemented. Administered, operated, and troubleshot classified and unclassified telecommunications network equipment, including but not limited to, cryptographic equipment, multiplexers, modems, routers, switches, and satellite equipment. Migrated hundreds of workstations from Windows XP to Vista. Monitored and implemented security and management controls on Department of Defense automated information systems. 24/7x365 Operation Center Monitoring and Maintenance. Operated the Certificate of Authority Workstation (CAW) and performed all the certificate management functions necessary to create, distribute and manage the X.509 Certificates on organizational and individual FORTEZZA Cards.  Help Desk Technician Help Desk Technician Time Warner Cable - Los Angeles, CA 2007 to 2010 Performed basic installations, disconnects, reconnects, service upgrades and downgrades of cable and internet systems. Performed all work as necessary to conform to quality, security and safety control guidelines (includes compliance with requirements outlined in applicable regulations such as OSHA, and FCC and following procedures as outlined in the Customer Premise Network Installation Qualifications (CPNIQ), Technical Quality Assurance (TQA), National Electric Code (NEC), National Electrical Safety Code (NESC), other Installation, Technical Operations, Safety Manuals, and Employee Handbook) Adhered to TQA standards in accordance with company policy. Followed security procedures to prevent any unauthorized services. Integrated various company services (video, internet, telephone) with customer's equipment. Ensured and recorded proper levels and signal quality within required specifications on active outlets; Verified no signal leakage or ingress was present in the drop network. Identified basic distribution problems associated with the radiofrequency portions of the forward and reverse plant and referred to Field Engineering. Educated customer on proper use of services and equipment, including channel lineups, and how to access online help. Maintained accurate records including time worked, daily logs, gas sheets as required; properly record all required information on data devices and/or work orders. Operated communication devices in accordance with company policies. Operated Company vehicle in a safe and responsible manner. Cleaned, maintained, stocked, and secured assigned vehicle and equipment, in accordance with company policies. Utilize and become proficient with tasks, tools, test equipment and information that will enhance business results. Adhered to industry specific, local, state and federal regulations, as applicable. Education Some college Certifications/Licenses MCSE Cloud Platform and Infrastructure March 2018 to Present MCSA Windows Server 2012 May 2016 to Present CompTIA Security+ March 2015 to March 2021 CompTIA Network+ February 2015 to February 2021 CompTIA A+ February 2015 to March 2021 ITIL v3 April 2016 to Present MCP April 2016 to Present CCNA Cyber Ops March 2018 to March 2021