Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Hilliard Office Solutions Lubbock, TX Information systems Graduate with Extensive experience in the Network and Systems Administration field. I am well versed in the following software and technologies  • installation and maintenance of all Microsoft operating systems, Linux Redhat and Ubuntu, Mac OS  • EHR and EMR Softwares such as, E-clinical works, NexGen, and CMG  • Routing/Firewalls - installation and recurring management of Sonicwall, Meraki, Palo Alto, Barracuda, Cisco, PFSense, and Open WRT firewall Technologies.  • Wifi - I am proficient in the engineering and implementation of the following wireless access systems - Cisco, Meraki, Xirrus, Ubiquiti, and Datto Access points  • Backup Systems - Veeam, Shadow Protect, Datto disaster recovery solutions, backblaze, Acronis, Symantec.  • Antivirus - Malwarebytes, Symantec, Trend Micro, Kaspersky and Webroot.  • Phone Systems - Cisco Voip Systems, Esi Analog and Digital Systems.  • Exchange - I am proficient in the installation and administration and migration of Microsoft Exchange 2003 - Exchange 365. I am an outgoing individual and as such I pride myself on my ability to work well with customers and develop a level of trust that keeps them returning to me for all future work. Work Experience Systems Administrator Hilliard Office Solutions January 2019 to Present • Responsible for multiple enterprise level customer network, infrastructure, and day to day operations.  • Complete multiple projects at once, ability to multitask and take on a variety of different problems at once, view what is an emergency to set a priority listing.  • Manage all customers backups for all managed servers weekly. Verify screenshots and verify that all backups are bootable.  • Deploy different network archetypes across all major branded enterprise equipment. Datto, Cisco, Ubiquiti, SonicWall and others.  • Deploy multiple phone controllers, build and mange SIP trunks, manage internal NIM cards or equivalent. Systems Engineer Ice Technologies November 2017 to January 2019 • Responsible for the Network and IT Infrastructure design, installation, Maintenance and operation of Lynn County Hospital District as well as the associated surrounding area clinics and pharmacies.  • This Particular client had been through 4 MSP IT companies in 2 years prior to my arrival, I was able to develop a professional and trusting relationship with this client and have been the longest lasting company to provide service for them  • As a Network engineer I took it upon myself to learn the EMR and EHR systems of each branch that I serviced so that I could make well informed and logical recommendations to the client about their technological environment  • I handle all incoming Help Desk Tickets as well as all onsite network and systems Management and maintenance. Helpdesk technician United Super Markets June 2016 to October 2017 • Regularly provided efficient technical support over the phone and network  • Provided dial in support for 331 stores to troubleshoot hardware and software problems.  • Responsible for dispatching and logging technical details so that all recurring issues could be properly tracked  • Managed multiple networking protocols, installed routers and configured IP addresses.  • Created training instruction on ISS 45 Point of Sale Systems  • Managed all incoming helpdesk calls in a timely and efficient manner. Computer Support Specialist OfficeWise September 2014 to May 2016 • Provided IT support for computers spread across multiple locations around Texas. Worked remotely to provide support.  • Managed firewall rules and allowed inbound/outbound traffic  • Managed cloud printing resources, setup print jobs in Cloud Express.  • Installed and configured network site to site VPN with routable sharing across all networks. Education Associates of Applied Sciences in Computer Sciences South Plains College - Levelland, TX June 2012 to May 2014 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, SCCM