Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Tempe, AZ Work Experience Systems Administrator Leidos INC - San Francisco, CA August 2016 to February 2019 • Provided Email support for all CMS Employees/Contractors via a Hybrid OnPremise/MyWorkplace server environment.  • Email support consists of creating, maintaining and deleting of Resource Mailboxes and Distribution Lists.  • Mailbox and Distribution List are maintained via using Exchange Server 2013 and the MyWorkplace Web Portal GUIs as well as Powershell scripts and commands.  • User Administration within Lync Server 2010 for User access to Lync/Skype for Business in the Production Environment.  • Support Employees of Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services in a Regional Office infrastructure.  • Maintain server support for a Windows Server 2012 Virtual Server Environment.  • Windows Server administration is provided using vSphere Client Ver 6.0  • Continually monitoring the EMC VNX5300 unit using EMC Unisphere to maintain peak performance, check for and then clear any errors.  • Perform Data restores and monitor Backup processes via Symantec NetBackup Appliance Version 2.5.2 Sr Systems Administrator Lockheed Martin - San Francisco, CA March 2005 to August 2016 7 Servers, 130+ Workstations and Laptops, 125+ Users, Virtual Server environment)  • Provided Email support for all CMS Employees/Contractors via a Hybrid OnPremise/MyWorkplace server environment.  • Provide support to Employees of Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services in a Regional Office infrastructure.  • Maintain server support for a Windows Server 2008/2012 Virtual Server Environment.  • Windows Server 2008 administration was provided using vSphere Client Ver 5.1  • Continually monitoring the EMC VNX5300 unit using EMC Unisphere to maintain peak performance, check for and then clear any errors.  • Perform Data restores and monitor Backup processes via Symantec NetBackup Appliance Version 2.5.2  • Maintained for 8 years and then decommissioned a Windows Server 2003 Infrastructure consisting of 5 IBM Servers, 1 HP Server, 2 IBM Storage Arrays and 2 IBM Tape Drives.  • Provided support in the installation of a Virtual Server Infrastructure with an HP Server Array, EMC VNX5300, and a Symantec Netbackup Storage device.  • Coordinate parts and, if needed, equipment replacements with outside vendors to maintain Peak performance for both End User Equipment and Networking Systems. IT Consultant Tek Systems Inc - San Francisco, CA May 2003 to February 2005 • Performed Windows XP migration for 150 Windows NT Workstations using Symantec Ghost 7 and the Altiris Web Console.  • Re-imaged 30+ Windows NT Workstations using Symantec Ghost 7.  • Recovered 2 Laptops from catastrophic hardware failures using the Windows 2000 Recovery Console.  • Installed software packages remotely using Win Install and the Altiris Web Console.  • Provided Level I/II Desktop Support for facilities with as little as 35 and up to as much as 500 users, in Windows 2000 Server environments with Workstations with varying Operating Systems ranging from Windows 95 to XP.  • Provided support for remote users and offices, nationwide, through Remedy Action Request 5.12 software. Also, monitored and closed problem tickets through the Remedy software. PC/LAN Coordinator Chubb Group of Insurance - Los Angeles, CA January 2002 to May 2003 6 servers, 250 Workstations and 100 Laptops, 350+ Users)  • Provided End-User support for over 350 user's in an NTworkstation/2000server environment.  • End-User Support Entailed:  • Laser/inkjet printers - installation, configuration, and troubleshooting  • Hardware installation, configuration and troubleshooting  • Microsoft Office Suite 97  • Lotus Notes 5.0  • Chubb Proprietary Applications  • 3270 mainframe connectivity (Emulated environment)  • Performed remote user setup/support on laptop computers and home PCs which consisted of:  ? Windows NT dial-up networking  ? Nortel VPN Client setup  ? AT&T dial-up connectivity  • Configuration of remote Lotus Notes and personal / pub directory access  • Conducted daily server maintenance, on 6 Windows 2000 servers, including backups/restores of vital company information, hardware/software upgrades/updates, and bi-weekly off hour reboots.  • Provided input and data to pilot program that consisted of providing service event data to the company via PDAs; Also adding/updating Inventory through same PDA software.  • Using the PDA information was able to relocate an entire floor and return them to normal operation, after catastrophic hub crash, within 30 min, saving the company thousands of dollars. Information Systems Technician First Class ( Systems Administrator) US Navy - San Diego, CA June 1998 to January 2002 8 servers, 40 Workstations and 1 internal web site, 50+ Users)  • System Administrator for 2 Windows NT networks with Exchange 5.5 Enterprise Edition and Proxy Server 2.0 and a HP-UX 10 UNIX Network.  • Intricate part in the upgrading, and rebuilding of 20+ workstations and 5 servers.  • Worked for 400+ working and non-working hours expanding, restructuring, and upgrading present LAN configuration.  • Organized, supervised and conducted the building of 50+ Computers.  • Developed and assisted in the development and maintaining of 15+ Automated Information Systems (AIS) Standard Operating Procedures used daily operations and in the training of newly arriving personnel in correct System Administrator Functions.  • Have built, rebuilt, configured, and implemented numerous MS Exchange 5.5 servers either after catastrophic crashes or during LAN restructuring with minimal down time.  • Supervised personnel in the successful installation of 50+ software upgrades of both the Windows NT and UNIX networks.  • Managed all trouble reports and coordinated site support with civilian contractors to ensure and maintain full system capability. Systems Administrator US Navy - San Diego, CA January 1994 to June 1998 11 servers, 150+ Workstations, 1100+ Users)  • System Administrator for 2 Windows networks (95 & NT), a Novell network, and two HP-UX Networks (8.x & 9.x).  • Supervised 12 personnel in daily operations, consisting of: Trouble Calls, LAN Maintenance and Basic Customer Service.  • Supervised the building and configuring of 100+ workstations, including the upgrade of 25 computers to meet with the navy's IT-21 Standards, a process which involved merging the hardware components of two computers into one.  • Spent 48+ hours repairing Critical HP-UX Digital Imagery server by replacing a damaged hard drive, rebuilt critical digital imagery database and reloaded application software, efforts saved thousands of dollars by eliminating the need for technical assistance.  • Coordinated and supervised both civilian and military personnel in the successful upgrade of the classified Windows NT/HP-UX network.  • Continually managed trouble reports and coordination between civilian and military personnel with numerous software updates after principle LAN configuration and implementation. Education Associate Skills Cisco, Exchange, Firewalls, Iis, Server admin, Tcp/ip, Proxy server 2.0, Ms proxy server 2.0, Web design, Web server, Unix, Backup exec, Net backup, Netware, Tcp, Ethernet, Ms office, Ms exchange, Lan, Ms office 97, Vmware, Active Directory, System Administrator Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E6