Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Radcliff, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator CACI International Inc Present Team Lead of a specialized group that provides Local/Remote support to customers as well as other teams in our organization. Work special escalated cases directed by Management. Provide leadership to team members in all services and follow all company processes. As team lead I am in charge of all equipment orders, and ensure logistics are in place to achieve objectives. I provide any training/Documents to team members to keep them functioning at highest potential. Work with Management to ensure functional roles of support are being met. Manage leave calendar to ensure maximum coverage. Track teams productivity to ensure each member is efficiently working, and work requirements are being met. Also provide expert troubleshooting for special escalated tickets. Provide local support for current building to include PC troubleshooting as well as Hardware, Network, and Software. Systems Administrator L3-Communications - Fort Meade, MD January 2004 to July 2015 Configure, maintain and troubleshoot network performance and devices of the LAN/WAN for over 7,000 users and 500 offices.  Provide technical support and guidance to users while ensuring correct use of applications.  Conduct off site/onsite support to mission critical applications.  Develop and maintain systems applications, security and network configurations.  Devise and maintain a disaster recovery plan.  Recommend upgrades, patches, new applications and equipment.  Administrator for Microsoft Windows NT Servers, Microsoft Windows Active Directory servers, Microsoft Exchange Email Servers  Made new network connections and supported those network connections.  Provide Local Support for all windows systems, Printers, Networks, and any software that could not be reached remotely.  Was the team lead for 10 employees. Systems Administrator U.S. Army - Fort Meade, MD November 1997 to December 2003 Responsible for the automation and maintenance support of the LAN with over 500 users   Identified computer-user problems and coordinated plans of action to resolve them.   Assisted in the preparation, editing and testing of computer programs.   Performed senior operator and systems administrator duties on computer systems   Aided less experienced users in installation, maintenance and troubleshooting of information-processing equipment   Modified and monitored network configurations, hardware/software, network usage and updates and completed server setup, installation, maintenance, performance monitoring and problem resolution.  Managed user accounts and was responsible for network monitoring.  Determined infrastructure's areas of improvement and tracked the update changes.   Supervised the work and performance of 6 soldiers.    Duty station Korea  I was the manager for 5 soldiers, and handled their work schedules, and supervised their day to day job duties.  Analyzed and resolved software, hardware and network systems related problems.  Executed systems evaluations for new software, and hardware that was to be implemented into our environment.  Configured, set-up and supported all internal and/or external networks.  Coordinated PC upgrades, and software upgrades to our customers.  Maintained all general troubleshooting regarding all hardware to include PC’s, Printers, and hardware upgrades. Also maintained all software troubleshooting to include windows OS, Microsoft office products, and various specialized customer software.    Duty station Ft. Lewis  Assigned as Primary Helpdesk/Desktop Repair Technician for over 150 users. Ensured the smooth operations of all network systems, and processes by consistently evaluating network issues and determining new strategies to resolve them.  Deployed operating systems, and desktop software solutions using remote desktop (SMS).  Administered Microsoft data servers, and exchange servers.  Maintained network communications throughout the environment.  Fabricated all cables used for installs / repairs Education High school or equivalent Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E5 SGT November 1997 to December 2003