Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - ConsultNet at Netiq/Microfocus Houston, TX • 24 years hands on experience with Windows NT, 2000, 2003, 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2012 R2, 2016, Windows XP, 7, 8, 10 Work Experience Systems Administrator ConsultNet at Netiq/Microfocus February 2018 to Present VmWare VCenter Provisioning new Windows servers and Domain Controllers and Maintaining current servers in multiple datacenters throughout the world in a multi domain environment. Network/Store Systems Support DISYS at Mattress Firm October 2016 to February 2018 • Supporting / Maintaining / Upgrading in store hardware. (Cisco Meraki Network Equipment & Firewalls/ Terminals / Printers / Audio Systems.  • Responding to and resolving Help Desk Tickets via Cherwell ticketing system and telephone  • Migrating Fortinet Firewalls to Cisco Meraki Firewalls.  • Supporting Stores remotely with VNC and the Remote Client in the 10ZIG terminal software.    Allergy & ENT Associates (An Allergy, Asthma & Ear Nose and Throat practice consisting of 15 clinics in the Houston, TX and surrounding area)  Senior Windows System Administrator (Responsible for 2 datacenters consisting of 67 servers both physical and virtual with 450 users)  July 2015 - July 2016    • Managed and Maintained over 450 Active Directory and Exchange accounts.  • Utilizied VmWare VCenter to provision new VM Windows 2012 R2 servers and maintain current VM Servers.  • Managed 67 Windows 2008, Windows 2012, Windows 2012 R2 servers at 2 datacenters  • Managed Active Directory, Domain Controllers, Group Policy, OU's, DNS, DHCP, Exchange 2010, NTFS File Permissions, and DFS  • Made recommendations to improve the OU structure and simplify the application of Group Policies.  • Provisioned Virtual Machines utilizing VmWare / VCenter 6.1 running Server 2012 R2  • Managed and Provisioned SAN space for Virtual Machines utilizing Dell Equallogics PS4000 SAN  • Workstation Configuration, Support and maintenance  • Managed backups utilizing UNITRENDS backup appliances at 2 datacenters  • Managed Barracuda email spam firewall  • Retired two file servers consolidating their files onto another existing file server using Microsoft Distributed File System (DFS) running on Server 2012 R2  • Wrote Powershell Scripts to automate tasks, produce reports to manage the systems and report on Active Directory  • Corrected configuration of Microsoft Remote Desktop Services Web deployment  • Administered 16 web servers in the multiple Remote Desktop Services Collections (Terminal Services)  • Instituted Server and Workstation patching utilizing Microsoft WSUS Help Desk Queue Physical and Virtual 2016 to 2016 Backups, Building Servers and Domain Controllers in a multi domain Forest utilizing VmWare VCenter. Assisting users via the Help Desk Queue. Senior Open Systems Administrator Grocers Supply Co. Inc - Houston, TX September 1995 to February 2015 Houston, Texas (Supplier of Goods and Services to Grocery Store Chains and Independents in Texas)  Senior Open Systems Administrator (Responsible for 3 datacenters consisting of 100 servers both physical and virtual Including 2 backup Sites)    September 1995 - February 2015  • Migrated from 3 Novel 3.3 servers to Microsoft Windows based servers, beginning with Windows NT and provisioning new servers with new OSs as they became available from Server 2003 thru Server 2012 R2. Led the server team growing the server infrastructure from 3 Novell Servers to over 100 Microsoft Windows Servers and a client base of over 800 users in multiple locations and Multiple Data Centers  • Negotiated and Purchased replacement Servers  • Managed and Maintained over 800 Active Directory and Exchange 2007 accounts  • Configured multiple Domain Controllers on Server 2003, 2008, 2012  • Microsoft Windows 2008 Active Directory environment maintaining DNS, DHCP and Group Policy, Exchange 2007  • Managed Bluecat Adonis/Proteus DNS/ DHCP servers  • Demonstrated knowledge of VBS Scripts and PowerShell Scripts in an Active Directory / Exchange environment, Blackberry, Apple and Android cell phones.  • Wrote Powershell scripts to manage and report on Active Directory and Exchange  • Installed first company wide email system (CCMAIL). Later migrated email to Lotus Notes/Domino and then to Exchange 2007 with 800 email users.  • Workstation Configuration, Support and Maintenance  • Documented status of the Exchange email system and notify management of deficiencies and necessary upgrades.  • Assisted in testing and implementing the first CISCO VPN Cisco AnyConnect Client for remote access to the Servers and Windows Active Directory Domain  • Administer Proof Point Email scanning service for Email Anti-Spam and Anti-virus.  • Administered and Migrated from Windows DNS and DHCP to third party hardware and software from Bluecat called Adonis (DNS, DHCP) with Proteus for IPAM and DNS/DHCP configuration.  • Instituted Email to personal devices such and Blackberry Phones via the Blackberry Enterprise Server. Replaced the Blackberry phones with I-Phones and Android phones for email utilizing Exchange Active Sync  • Technical Support to the programmers providing supervision and leadership.  • I managed the project to install and configure CCMAIL and then the migration to Lotus Domino Email and later on the migration of Lotus Notes email to Exchange 2007 which also entailed migrating from Windows Server 2003 Active Domain to Windows Server 2008 Active Domain I managed a consultant who assisted with this migration.  • I have dealt with multiple vendors, managed the purchasing of computer equipment including workstations and servers configuring the servers to specifications needed to properly run software.  • I have assisted with budgeting by gathering budge numbers for various software, software renewals, maintenance renewals of software and maintenance contracts for servers.  • I managed and maintained the Server PCI compliancy of the PCI compliance project Education Associate of Applied Science in Business Data Processing in Business Data Processing San Jacinto College Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dns, Exchange, Dhcp, Remote access, Vmware, Active sync, Scripting, Security, Blackberry, Domino, Lotus domino, Ntfs, Android, Configuration management, Deployment, Migrations, Change control, Maintenance, System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information SKILLS    • Cisco Meraki Configuration and Administration  • Active Directory Domain Controllers (2003 thru 2016)  • Exchange 2007 & 2010 along with Exchange Active Sync  • Exchange 2007 & 2010 Installation, Management and Administration including creating mailboxes adding users to Distribution List and the Global Address book.  • Windows server versions 2003 thru 2016  • Server Migrations & Consolidations  • Microsoft Remote Desktop Services Configuration and Management  • VmWare VCenter and Vsphere ver 6 & 6.5  • Windows 2008 Hypervisor  • Microsoft Active Directory  • Group Policy Management & Implementation  • Microsoft DNS & DHCP  • Bluecat DNS, DHCP & IPAM  • Microsoft Server Update Services (WSUS)  • Dell Equal Logics 4000 SAN Installation and Configuration Management  • Unitrends Backup Appliances Configuration and Management  • Sonic Wall  • IronPort Spam Filter  • Baracuda Email Spam Appliance  • Configured and Managed Proofpoint Email Spam service  • Software Deployment  • Endpoint Security and Antivirus  • Project Management & Implementation  • Applicatiopn Management & Standardazation  • Budgeting and Purchasing  • Inventory and Change Control  • Automation via Scripting using PowerShell  • Mobile Device Management - Blackberry, Android, I-Phones and Tablets  • Blackbery Enterprise Server for Lotus Domino and Exchange  • Able to write PowerShell Scripts in an Active Directory Domain environment/Exchange environment.  • Server NTFS File Permissions  • Remote Access Solutions Including VPNs, RDP, Team Viewer  • Workstation Configuration, support and Maintenance  • Experienced working with vendors getting issues resolved and negotiating prices for software and services.