Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Information Technology Professional Dallas, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator INDYGASTRO - Indianapolis, IN January 2018 to Present ? Responsible for day-to-day IT operations  ? Tasked to maintain IndyGastro servers, networking infrastructure, and provide support for IndyGastro, The Endoscopy Center, IndyGastro Research Foundation, Sedation Services and 8 outlying facilities  ? Design and complete projects to provide IndyGastro with IT independence and to save costs. Many of these projects required bringing externally supported systems in-house. A few of these projects include a full network upgrade to Cisco Meraki equipment, server upgrades, Office 365 migration, and contract negotiations to receive lower rates for services   ? Administrate the IndyGastro Microsoft Office 365 email system   ? Collaborate and work with other senior managers to determine departmental needs   ? Liaison between IndyGastro and external IT vendors and hospitals to ensure that the appropriate VPN connections are operational and run smoothly Systems Administrator enVista - Carmel, IN July 2016 to June 2017 ? Project lead for various projects for other EnVista clients. Some of these projects include Exchange to Office 365 email migrations, network equipment configuration and deployment, and Windows 10 upgrades   ? Support 80+ different clients while maintaining organized and updated documentation   ? Tasked with being an escalation point and provide mentorship for other EnVista technicians   ? Provide insight on daily operating procedures for how tasks and projects should be handled for different clients Network Administrator OurHealth - Indianapolis, IN November 2015 to June 2016 ? Responsible for day-to-day network operations for HQ and 33 outlying clinics  ? Designed and executed a full network overhaul from Juniper networking gear to Cisco ASAs for HQ and Cisco Meraki gear for remote clinics. Included in this overhaul was an IP address schema change from Class C addressing to Class B   ? Maintain the Corporate office dual Cisco ASA-5525X firewall stack and making configuration changed when necessary   ? Maintenance and configuration of our virtual ASA device that sits in Amazon Web Services (AWS)   ? Configuration and deployment of Cisco Meraki gear for every new clinic, and also retrofitting old clinics with new Meraki firewalls, switches, and access points   ? Creation and upkeep of Site-to-Site IPSec VPN tunnels terminating to the ASAv between all sites   ? Built, customized, and deployed Orion SolarWinds Network Performance Monitor to monitor every remote site firewall, every server in our environment, and our public facing websites   ? Maintain detailed documentation for networking systems Helpdesk Support Technician OurHealth - Indianapolis, IN November 2012 to November 2015 ? Provided basic and technical support to end users on a wide array of technology systems both in the healthcare clinics and headquarters   ? Responsible for Active Directory and Office 365 administration including O365 exchange and SharePoint   ? Maintained a first-class level of customer service when working with customers via telephone, remote support software, email, or in person   ? Subject matter expert for Nextiva VoIP system (Buying licenses, user setup, device assignment and configuration, auto attendant/hunt group/call center setup)   ? Created new servers in Amazon Web Services EC2, VPN tunnels in VPC, and created/modified Security policies   ? Created SFTP sites for multiple clients through Linux CLI   ? Tasked with the configuration of new systems and onboarding new employees   ? Familiarized with ticketing systems to keep track of customer tickets   ? Maintained detailed documentation for various systems   ? Occasionally traveled to different states to assist in setting up the technology systems and networking equipment for new company healthcare clinics  Information Technology Specialist United States Army Reserve - Indianapolis, IN October 2009 to October 2014 ? Serve as end user support for all software approved by the United States Army, i.e. Microsoft Office Suite, Adobe Acrobat, military specific software and systems   ? Trained to configure, manage, and maintain Cisco routers and switches   ? Implemented Ethernet access control by using port security   ? Maintain government owned PC’s used for mission critical operations to guarantee the success of any mission or operation   ? Often tasked with destroying machines according to DoD regulations   ? Responsible for leading a team of soldiers to complete objectives as a network administration team while paying close attention to detail   ? Ensured all Information Assurance policies were being enforced by updating anti-virus software, patching systems, and updating programs on systems   ? Trained and helped soldiers to work as a group to accomplish tasks   ? Retained a government secret security clearance   ? Earned CompTIA Security+ Certification (Career ID: COMP001020212210) Education Indiana University-Purdue University-Indianapolis - Indianapolis, IN 2012 to 2014 Indiana University-Purdue University-Indianapolis - Indianapolis, IN 2010 to 2011 Skills Network Administration, Cisco Meraki, Cisco ASA, Electronic Medical Records, VoIP, Amazon Web Services, Office 365, HIPAA Compliance, Active Directory, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ December 2010 to Present