Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Ideal Image Tampa, FL Computer Science professional with over 10 years of experience in the information  technology field and management information systems. Work Experience Systems Administrator Ideal Image 2012 to Present • Administrated and managed head office network system infrastructure, compounded by 127 sites around the states with 60 virtual and physical 2008/2012 Windows Servers and 2 data centers.  • Responsible for SharePoint server administration; currently migrating all data to Microsoft Office 365 and creating new site taxonomy for a better organization and access control.  • Participated in analysis and acquisition of 2 SANs Dell Equal Logics PS6510 for each data centers to centralize all data and create a better performance and more reliable business continuity planning.  • Virtualized over 15 physical servers using Microsoft HyperV to get better performance, redundancy,  strong business continuity planning and saving costs of maintenance and power consumption.  • Implemented Wireless service on 117 sites using clustered Juniper WLC880 controllers with  WLA322US access points and implemented Ring Master for managing and monitoring all devices.  • Migrated wireless infrastructure from Juniper WLC880 to Cisco Meraki MR32 cloud based.  • Restructured BCP data center by moving all existing equipment to a different cabinet and replacing  low performance servers.  • Managed Office 365 Cloud Server services: MS Exchange, SharePoint and Lync IM. Active Directory,  Group Policy, File Servers, Terminal Servers, Web Servers, CRM 2013 Server, among others.  • Responsible of the enterprise backup strategy using Symantec Backup Exec 2014 & 2012 and for the analysis and documentation of the disaster recovery plan for the entire organization.  • Monitored log files, backups and system performance using SolarWinds, WhatsUpGold, SpotLight among other tools and provided Tier 3 support for Desktop Support Team.  • Managed Windows patching and antivirus using Kaseya and Symantec Endpoint Manager server.  • Responsible for PCI compliance scanning using Qualys platform and data encryption with PGP.  • Implemented Air Watch for managing and monitoring mobile devices.    1 Systems Administrator ContourGlobal 2011 to 2012 • Administrated and managed head office network system infrastructure, compounded by 10 sites around the globe with 50 virtual and physical Servers all of them connected through an MPLS circuit.  • Managed Virtual Servers using MS Hyper-V technology: Domain Controllers, DNS, DHCP, Terminal  Server, Print Server, File Services Server, Web/SharePoint, Symantec Antivirus EndPoint and  Windows Update Services Server (WSUS).  • Monitored and managed Citrix terminal Servers, which allow access for external users to our main  SAP & BPC database among others applications.  • Managed Office 365 Cloud Server services: MS Exchange, SharePoint and Lync IM.  • Monitored and managed LifeSize Server system for global High Definition Video conferencing.  • Managed 700 Active directory user accounts: permissions, access rights and storage allocations in accordance with best-practices regarding privacy, security and regulatory compliance.  • Participated in the integration and migration of 4 different domains to a single one.  • Managed Software Asset Management (SAM) to reduce the cost of licensing for Microsoft's products in all sites.  • Participated in the planning and implementation of Dell Kace Servers for ticketing system and software & hardware inventory.  • Participated in the migration of MS SharePoint and E-mail to MS Office 365 cloud services.  • Participated in the deployment of a Global VoIP system based on Cisco Telephony technology.  • Performed software and hardware improvements, upgrades, patches, reconfigurations and/or purchases.  • Managed input/output fleet, including printers (HP, Konica, Ricoh) and scanners.  • Managed connection solutions, including Server connectivity, Local Area Networks, Wide Area  Networks and company Web site.  • Performed and tested routine system backups and restores.  • Troubleshoot and resolved hardware & software problems on servers and workstations.  • Developed, documented and maintained policies, procedures and associated training plans for system  administration and appropriate uses. Systems Administrator AECOM/ SkanSka 2004 to 2011 Administered Puerto Rico's Railroad network system (Local Area Network and Wide Area Networks): 8  field offices, 30 Servers and 350 users.  • Participated in the planning, designing and implementation of the system virtualization using VMware  ESXi 4.0; reducing the amount of physical servers from 20 to 5, saving costs of maintenance and power consumption.  • Managed virtual servers using VMware ESXi 4.0: Domain Controller Server, DNS Server, DHCP  Server, MS Exchange 2007 & 2010 Servers, BlackBerry Enterprise Server, Terminal Server, Print  Server, File Services Server, Web/SharePoint Server, Symantec Antivirus Server, Windows Update  Services Server (WSUS) among others.  • Experience maintaining and installing IBM/Dell/HP storage area networks (SAN) and clusters.  • Planned, designed and implemented the migration of Windows NT platform to Windows 2003  platform: Active Directory implementation (Group Policies), Firewall (CheckPoint, ISA Server)  implementations, Symantec EndPoint antivirus Server implementation, File Servers upgrades and documented all procedures.  • Participated in the planning, designing and implementation of the integration of two domains.  • Planned, designed and implemented the Wide Area Network (WAN) for field offices, including  recommendation and purchasing of communication hardware (routers & switches), servers,  computers, printers among other equipment and supervised contractors for the installation of new  network cabling.  • Requested RFI, RFP and supervised contractors for the installation of a wireless connection which connected one of the field offices to the LAN.  • Planned, designed and implemented disaster recovery plan.  • Researched and implemented backup solutions (Symantec Veritas with Dell Power Vault solution).  • Planning, developing and implementing project including budget.  • Ensured system performance including backup systems, anti-virus software, firewalls, E-mail  provisions and print services.  • Experience managing IT projects and teams for developing solutions.    2  • Researched and installed new systems based on business needs.  • Obtained and analyzed supplier proposals to ensure cost-effectiveness.  • Trained and mentored support staff.  • Provided technical support for users. AECOM - IT Technician Kelly Services 2002 to 2004 • Handled service requests and other inquiries of 400 users.  • Helped maintain the network connectivity of seven field offices with Puerto Rico's Train System Project  headquarters using fully dedicated T1 lines.  • Performed hardware and software maintenance as well as installations.  • Assisted the administration of the Windows NT/2000/2003 network including data backup, anti-virus and software actualization on all workstations.  • Monitored and maintained data integrity and security parameters. Education Bachelor in Computer Science Inter American University Additional Information Technical Skills    • Windows Server (2012, 2008, 2003, 2000, NT) • Dell KACE  • Network Configuration • ISA Server  • Active Directory • Sonic Wall  • DNS • Check Point  • WINS • HD Video Conference  • DHCP • Microsoft Exchange (2007, 2003, 5.5 & OWA)  • TCP/IP • Symantec Mail Security for SMPT  • MS Office 365 • Symantec EndPoint Protection Manager  • SharePoint administration • BlackBerry Enterprise Server  • Virtualization (HyperV, VMware) • Symantec Backup Exec Software  • Budget Management • Print and File Servers Configurations  • Project Management • Wireless network  • Juniper SRX, WLC880, WLC • Windows Workstations Suite  • Shoretel Director • Microsoft Office Suite  • Qualys PCI compliance • VISIO  • Data Center • Dell Blade M1000  • EqualLogic SAN • CRM  • Cisco Meraki Access Point    Other Experience / Knowledge    • Webpage design • MAC  • Linux ( BackTrack, Red Hat, Mandrake) • MS-Access  • CISCO • SAP  • C++ • SQL  • Visual basic • ORACLE  • PROCOM PLUS  • PBX  • Call Collector  • VPON surveillance system  • KANTECH Entrapass access control