Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Stockton, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Defense Logistics Agency May 1989 to October 2014 As a systems administrator/desktop support associate, I was responsible in helping maintain the workstations and servers supporting my local office users and our local/remote datacenters. I also provided feedback and support to my senior administrators and managers for continuous improvement of processes and procedures. I successfully installed, setup and configured our local MOM, SMS, Symantec Antivirus, BEA WebLogic, Informatica and Business Objects servers to new hardware all in the span of one year. I was required to follow strict DOD security guidelines while configuring these new systems. I sustainment by being the lead administrator on these servers. On a day to day basis, my regular duties included:    • Monitor systems and applications through Microsoft Operations Manager and Solar Winds Orion.  • Manage end user accounts, permissions and access rights.  • React to system outages and escalated helpdesk requests.  • Troubleshoot and assess any server/application outage that may affect day to day processing.  • Utilized advanced problem solving skills to solve server and desktop issues.  • Respond to senior administrator requests for information.  • Ensure compliance with Department of Defense security procedures on servers and workstations.  • Update hardware inventory as needed utilizing Microsoft Excel.  • Member of after hour on-call rotation.  • Relayed application and server problems/issues that arise to management, IT team and end users.  • Utilized my documentation skills to assist other administrators on my team solve issues quickly.    Secretary, Administrative assistant    • Performed a variety of administrative duties in support of the mission.  • Answered incoming telephone calls.  • Scheduled meetings and maintained calendar for supervisor and staff.  • Order supplies and maintained inventory and equipment.  • Compose, type, and proofread a variety of correspondence and documents including take notes during meetings.  • Transmitted confidential communication correspondence between different office locations.  • Distributed incoming and outgoing mail.  • Processed and verified employee time cards.  • Trained other admin assistants on time card entry at remote sites.  • Perform other duties and responsibilities as required.  • Received monetary award for developing payroll documentation for staff to utilize, resulting in a savings for the government.  • Trained staff on Microsoft Word/PowerPoint/Excel software applications.  • Worked independently when supervisor was out of the office.  • Setup staff network printers.  • Setup staff email (outlook)  • Bookkeeping  • Advanced knowledge of Excel, Word, and Power Point  • Independently manages aspects of the Branch Chiefs daily operations, including: managing a highly complex schedule, proactively and promptly managing changes in scheduling agendas, priorities and needs.  • Independently analyzes problems, determines approach, prepare reports/recommendations.  • Trained co-workers on systems, and functions.  • Transcribed emails and letters to outside sources on behalf of management. Education Computer Science Coursework Delta College - Stockton, CA Skills DOD (10+ years), EXCEL (10+ years), INVENTORY (10+ years), MICROSOFT OPERATIONS MANAGER (10+ years), OPERATIONS (10+ years), Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/robin-liette-597905153 Additional Information Technical Expertise    Active Directory  • Domain account creation/deletion/modification  • Domain group creation/deletion/modification  • Password resets  • Account unlock  • Mailbox setup  • Common Access Card (CAC) setup  • User certificate installation  • Group Policy    Operating Systems  • Microsoft Server 2003  • Microsoft Windows XP, 7  • Microsoft Windows 10    Server Applications  • Active Directory Users & Computers Console (ADUC)  • Group Policy Management Console  • Microsoft SCCM 2007 ( System Center Configuration Manager)  • Microsoft SMS 2003 ( Systems Mgmt. Server)  • MOM 2005 (Microsoft Operations Manager)  • Symantec Antivirus Server  • Registry Editor  • Working knowledge of SCCM  • Working knowledge of Microsoft DNS    Applications/Programming  • Microsoft Office Professional Plus 2013 (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Visio, Project)  • Microsoft Office 2007  • Microsoft Office 2003  • BMC Remedy Ticket system  • Lenel OnGuard Card entry system  • SSH Tectia  • Oracle Client    Additional Skills  • Printer and Print Driver installation  • Set folder/file security permissions  • Manage Access rights/permissions  • Modified local security groups on servers/workstations  • Event Log troubleshooting  • Operating System security patching  • Information Assurance  • DoD Computer Security Compliance  • Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) Exercises  • Working knowledge of Video Conferencing software  • Strong troubleshooting skills  • Maintain local hardware Inventory of all IT equipment  • Experience in using remote tools such as RDP, Computer Management, and Skype for Business, TeamViewer, and SMS.