Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - McKesson San Jose, CA • Over ten years of experience as Windows Systems Administrator/ Systems Administrator, and Network Administration experience in IT department --- to design, install and maintain network systems consisting of Windows 2012/2008/2003, Exchange, VMWare, SAN, Linux and Data Backup in heterogeneous environments.  • Senior in installation and administration of Windows AD, DNS, DHCP, WINS, Exchange 2013/2010/2007, Wintel, PowerShell, SCCM 2007/2012, Patching, Debugging, IIS, ITIL, MS SQL, NetApp Filer, EMC SAN, Citrix and Linux. Knowledgeable in TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, FTP, HTTP and SMTP.  • Desktop and helpdesk support, hardware and software installation, configuration and troubleshooting. Work Experience Systems Administrator McKesson - San Francisco, CA April 2017 to Present Systems Administrator Intel-PSG - San Jose, CA May 2016 to March 2017 Windows Systems Administrator Ciena Corp - San Jose, CA May 2012 to May 2016 Systems Administrator Locus Technologies - Mountain View, CA January 2009 to April 2012 Systems Administrator Facetime Communications Inc - Belmont, CA January 2005 to November 2008 • Work on project of windows server remediation management including hosts scanning via Nexpose Rapid 7, generating vulnerability report, analyzing status of report and working on remediation solutions. Work with patching team and verify status of patching via powershell scripts. Search unknown hosts and locate point of contact, update asset management database.  • Provision and manage Azure VMs thru Azure Admin portal, resource group, Virtual Network, Storage, network security group, Azure application gateway, Azure Active Directory and OMS Log Analytics.  • Support on-prem production infrastructure and co-location DR site with VMWare SRM and Storage.  • Manage enterprise directory infrastructure including FSMO roles, trusts, replication topology, domain controllers, OU hierarchies, group policies, security groups, permissions, DNS, DHCP and LDAP.  Manage the replication of directory information within the active directory and make any  enterprise level changes to active directory such as schema modifications and trust relationships.  • Monitor connectivity, synchronization, replication, netlogon, time services, FSMO roles, schema, NTDS Database partitions, SRV records and trust relationships.  • Configure and setup Microsoft Azure cloud portal to grant access and setup VMs, configure O365 with premises AD and ADFS SSO.  • Work on disaster recovery plan and practice of active directory  • Review DC event and security logs and take corrective actions to ensure a stable and secure domain.  • Deploy Win 2K12 R2 and Win2K16 to Dell PE R730 and R630 servers via Lifecycle  controller.Setup iDRAC remote console, hard disks RAID configuration, OS, Dell OMSA  management tool, McAfee AV, SCCM agent and NIST hardening security standards.  • Manage VMWare data center and cluster with ESXi hosts, vCenter console, data stores, vSwitches, HA and DRS.. Provision Windows VMs via templates in vCenter console. Manage Microsoft Hyper-V infrastructure for Lab and staging environment.  • Manage and maintain application hosting from Citrix infrastructure including Advanced Access Controls setup, Netscaler load balancer, XenServer server farm configuration, operation and maintenance.  • Deploy XenApp, XenDesktop servers and VDI infrastructure in VMWare ESXi server, vCenter and Storage environment with features of high availability and fail over cluster.  • Setup XenApp server via provisioning services, publish applications and configure user accounts and profiles for application access.  • Monitor servers and applications performance, and maintain network connectivity, application load balancing and security.  • Work on Citrix users' requests including application access control, web interface, printing, provisioning and patching.  • Update Windows systems inventory list including host names, IPs, NDS records, iDRAC remote  console, warranty, data center locations. Troubleshoot and repair HW issues including hard disks, CPU, RAM and PERC controller.  • Monitor Windows systems CPU, RAM, disk space and connectivity via Alert systems Nagios, SCOM and manage Windows patching and application updates via SCCM2012.  • Support and manage Azure Cloud infrastructure with Azure Admin portal, Azure VM, resource group, Virtual Network, Storage, network security group, Azure application gateway, Azure Active Directory, App service, SQL DB, PowerShell scripts and OMS Log Analytics.  • Work on ServiceNow ticketing system and provide tier 2 support  including AD, Microsoft Azure, O365, Azure AD Connect, OKTA SSO, PowerShell and Python scripting, configuration, setup and troubleshooting.  • Work in enterprise environment with multiple locations, manage IT infrastructure including Windows AD Domain, Hyper-V, PowerShell scripting, GPO, Windows 2K3-2K8-2K12, Exchange2K13, SQL2K12, SCCM 2007/2012, Patching, Debugging, Windows Firewall, F5, Barracuda, Trend Micro Officescan Anti-Virus, MacBook, ESXi 5.5, vCenter 5.5, Citrix XenApp6.5 infrastructure, multiple sites and data center. Respond system performance monitoring alerts with proper actions.  • Connect HP C7000 blade system to EMC Clariion CX-4 and VNX 5700 SAN. Configure aliases and zones on FC SAN switches and setup LUNs, hosts and storage group on EMC Storage. Migrate data from Clariion to VNX via vCenter Storage vMotion.  • Manage EMC VMAX SAN via EMC utility Unisphere, physically connect host servers to the SAN, configure the data ports and zoning. Logically present storage from the SAN array to new hosts, configure masking views, port groups, storage groups and zoning on Brocade FC switches. Expand LUNs on the VMAX and add datastores to a VMWare cluster. Create clones on VMAX. Replicate LUNs between sites via SRDF CLI.  • Manage VMWare infrastructure with Cisco UCS, Data Center, cluster, HA, DRS, vMotion, Storage vMotion, vSwitch, port groups, VLAN, VMKernel, datastores, LUNs VMFS, Fiber Channel, iSCSI and NFS. Setup VMs thru templates, configure Windows OS and provision storage space for VMs. Convert physical servers to VMs via P2V. Upgrade vCenter and ESXi host servers to 6.0.  • Manage and maintain application hosting from Citrix infrastructure including Advanced Access Controls setup, Netscaler load balancer, XenServer server farm configuration, operation and maintenance.  • Deploy XenApp, XenDesktop servers and VDI infrastructure in VMWare ESXi server, vCenter and Storage environment with features of high availability and fail over cluster.  • Setup XenApp server via provisioning services, publish applications and configure user accounts and profiles for application access.  • Monitor servers and applications performance, and maintain network connectivity, application load balancing and security.  • Work on Citrix users' requests including application access control, web interface, printing, provisioning and patching.  • Work on Office 365 deployment project, plan and execute migration with Microsoft Azure, Hybrid Configuration Wizard, Okta SSO and Microsoft DirSync. Manage Active Directory and O 365 with PowerShell scripting.  • Provide support to O365/Exchange including mail flow, protocols, policies, Outlook, OWA, calendaring and scheduling, backup, recovery and security of Exchange.  • Support and manage Azure Cloud infrastructure with Azure Admin portal, Azure VM, resource group, Virtual Network, Storage, network security group, Azure application gateway, Azure Active Directory, App service, SQL DB and PowerShell scripts.  • Work on network upgrade project including cable rewiring, switch upgrade and data center configuration.  • Work with Network and Linux administrators to provide local support to Linux systems, Python, Mac system, switches, router and Firewall.  • Work on SCCM 2012 for Windows patching, software distribution, software packaging, OS deployment and asset management.  • Perform after hours and weekends on-call support to handle incidents.  • Perform vendor and asset management, documentation and network diagram with Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Visio. Education BS in Chemical Engineering Tatung Institute of Technology MS in Computer Science in Computer Science Ohio University - Athens, OH Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware