Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - North Ottawa Community Hospital Grand Haven, MI Systems Administrator for the past 12 years. Strong experience in Windows support including all Office Apps, VMware, Citrix Administration, and MAC knowledge as well. Primary experience includes Media, Ecological, and Automotive industries. Work Experience Systems Administrator North Ottawa Community Hospital - Grand Haven, MI 2015 to Present • Support and troubleshoot all I.T. related issues for end users  • Support all Avaya and Panasonic phone system issues for all users  • Provide Hospital phone system solutions  • Setup and Provide I.T. equipment for all users  • Provide users Technical Support via phone and remote control of PC  • Troubleshoot any issues with all Hospital Applications  • Put in Support Tickets for Doctors and complete in timely manner  • Complete all tickets put in by users  • Work well in Team Environment and communicate effectively  • Take care of issues while being on-call  • Currently supporting Windows 7 and 8.1 IT Systems Administrator Newscycle Solutions - Ann Arbor, MI 2014 to 2015 • Support End Users for IT Equipment via phone/in person  • Support New User Requests via software and hardware  • Support any/all networking issues with PC's/Circuits  • Document all changes made to IT Procedures and Equip. Tracking  • Organizing and ordering any and all IT equipment necessary for end users  • Provide info and suggestions for any improvements needed.  • Making sure all support tickets were taken care of in a timely manner  • Control, update, monitor access employee profiles using Active Directory Network Administrator Environmental Quality - Wayne, MI 2012 to 2014 • Support End Users for IT Equipment via phone/in person  • Control, update, monitor access employee profiles using Active Directory  • Support New User Requests via software and hardware  • Support any/all networking issues with PC's/Circuits  • Document all changes made to IT Procedures and Equip. Tracking  • Organizing and ordering any and all IT equipment necessary for end users  • Reporting and calling into providers for any/all Circuits/PRI's  • Provide info and suggestions for any improvements needed.  • Making sure all support tickets were taken care of in a timely manner  • Monitoring data traffic on all Citrix Xenapp servers.  • Help users logon successfully into Citrix  • Troubleshoot their Citrix session if frozen or running very slow.  • Showing users how to run Citrix on multiple screens and how to log off properly as well.  • Training user on how to transfer files back and forth between their Citrix profile and their local profile outside Citrix. I.T. Administrator International Automotive Components - Alma, MI 2007 to 2012 • Control, modify, and update our companies computer network  • Troubleshoot all PC's, printers, scanners, software, network cabling, etc.  • Create, update all PC's by using Altiris  • Control, update, monitor access employee profiles using Active Directory  • With being the only I.T. employee on board, I was responsible for all 3 shifts 24/7, meaning being on call and coming into work whenever necessary at any time if fixing the problem remotely failed.  • Making sure all equipment and software is up to date and working to the best of the company's needs.  • TCP/IP management was very important in keeping everything running smoothly and to not have any duplicates.  • Making sure all computers were up to date on Anti-Virus software.  • Making sure all equipment used had extras in stock just in case something failed. Education B.S. in Computer Information Systems Ferris State University - Big Rapids, MI May 2007 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp, Remote access, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Telnet, Vpn, Exchange, Deployment, Management console, Altiris, Raid, Backup exec, Tokens, Imaging, Streaming, Qad, Windows server 2003, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware Additional Information Computer Software Skills  • Altiris Deployment Console  • Arc Serve Backup - Tape Backup System  • Backup Exec 12.5  • Crashplan backup  • KACE Ticketing System  • Active Directory  • Adding and Removing User Accounts  • Resetting Passwords  • Adding and Removing Users to different folders and email Distribution Groups  • Giving Users access to certain files  • Creating Folders on shared network drives  • Set permissions and rights for each user and folder  • Rename User's accounts  • Adding and Removing Computer Objects  • Renaming Computer Objects  • Putting computers in the correct OU (organizational unit)  • Adding Users to Office365 email mailbox creation  • Ultra VNC  • QAD  • Windows User Profile Troubleshooting  • TCP/IP Management  • Setting up different VLAN's for network switches by using Telnet with Console cable to switch  • IP address management - Static and DHCP  • Network Cable Management  • Software Installation  • All Microsoft Office Products  • Network Equipment such as (Hubs, Switches, Zebra/HP Printers, Intermec/Symbol Barcode Scanners, PC's, etc.)  • Rockwell Automation Software - RSLINX  • Windows Server 2003/08/12  • Swapping out Hard Drives when they fail  • Setting up different RAID configurations for hard drive setup  • Setting up TCIP/IP configuration for network ports  • Checking permissions and rights of folders for users on server shared network drives  • Reviewed windows logs for errors for unexpected shutdowns or hang-ups  • Managed Printers on Print Server for connectivity and basic and add/remove of printers  • Troubleshooted printer issues on print server  • Microsoft Outlook Email - Setup and Troubleshooting  • Experience using/Troubleshooted MS Outlook 2003/2010  • Troubleshooted connection issues by checking with online reports from Microsoft Office365 Exchange  • Troubleshooted email profile issues that would not load/start - sometimes dropping their email profile and having the user log off and back on re-creates their profile  • Setting up signatures  • Setting up contacts and calendars  • Checking email Exchange server for email address configurations if users email can't send or receive emails  • Maintaining Hardware and Software  - Continuous Upkeep and Updating  - Order new parts or replacements when needed at all times  • Work with Corporate Support in resolving specific tasks.  • Cisco Access points/Antennas  • Cisco/HP Servers/Routers/Switches  • VPN Remote Access - Vasco Remote Tokens  • Sophos Anti-Virus Maintenance  • Disk Imaging  • AT&T/Winn Telecomm Phone Communication System  - Troubleshooting Desk Phones  - Make new phone cables  • Citrix Environment  • Using Citrix Access Management Console to troubleshoot user's accounts per Citrix server - if user's session is locked up or is having issues with one particular program, I can terminate the process and or their session and have the user log on with fresh session.  • Training users on how to login/logoff their Citrix session  • Troubleshoot and monitor Seamless Apps and or Streaming Apps  • Allows me to view what type of computer they have, when they logged in, and how many sessions they have open