Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Delphinus Medical Technologies Southfield, MI Dedicated Microsoft System Administrator with 7+ years' experience and proven success in deploying, evaluating  and maintaining IT systems aimed at improving quality and efficiency by automating; Leads strategically and  collaborates with cross-functional teams; Aligns end-user needs with long-term solutions to complex challenges;  Adept troubleshooter consistently focused on identifying, isolating, and resolving technical issues, assessing risk,  and developing mitigation tools. Work Experience Systems Administrator Delphinus Medical Technologies - Novi, MI June 2017 to Present • Work with engineering team on the requirements and provides recommendations for improvements.  • Forecast utilization patterns and identify modifications or upgrades needed.  • Recommend and approve changes/enhancements for improved systems availability, reliability and performance.  • Provide technical direction for the planning, designing, and execution of testing efforts. Ensure that tests evaluate all  possible impacts on the current infrastructure or application. Provide tier 3 production support.  • Coordinate problem resolution among a variety of functional areas and provide  • Became subject matter expertise support for diagnosing and resolving problems. Technical Consultant Tech Enterprise August 2016 to August 2017 St. Shores - Michigan  • Customer liaison to project requirements, scope and integration with existing systems  • Development, configuration, integration, testing, optimization, implementation and debug of customer solutions  • Testing of software applications or hardware devices that may be deployed to enhance solution.  • Resolve technical issues and offer proactive technical support.  • Development of tools that may be used by others to help provision, manage or troubleshoot large scale deployments.  • Documentation of solutions to ensure support teams and other consultants can participate in support and onward  development. Technical Specialist Engineer Lecico - Alexandria, EG January 2015 to June 2016 - Egypt  • Supervising, coaching and mentor help desk team to provide ideal and fast problem solving for more than 250  employees and 20 remote branches.  • Responsible for management, maintenance and architecture of storage, virtualized environment, servers, network  devices, and productivity tools.  • Prepare regular reports, perform audit on various operations and evaluate processes as per business requirements.  • Maintain and monitor all network, security and computer systems to meet the organization's current and future  • requirements.  • Responsible for maintenance contracts, reviewing and negotiating. Systems Engineer Arab computers - Alexandria, EG November 2013 to December 2014 - Egypt  • Support and responsible of system administration activities on Linux environment.  • Provide implementation solutions and designs on AWS cloud.  • Understand and Identify system data, hardware or software components required to meet user/company needs.  • Managing assigned projects and program components to deliver services in accordance with established objectives.  • Complete configuration, installation and support of equipment in Linux and Microsoft server environment.  • Disaster Recovery and daily data backup using Tapes systems. IT Help Desk Signup for Computer Services - Alexandria, EG February 2010 to October 2012 - Egypt  • Deploying new hardware, server backups and evaluating new software and security risks.  • Identifying and reporting on the budgetary implications of customers projects and upgrades.  • Diagnosis of desktop, application, networking issues.  • Provided 1st line support to customers. Education Bachelor's in accounting and business management in e-commerce Academy of Management and Accounting - Alexandria, EG Skills Active directory, Dns, Encryption, Dhcp, Vpn, Backups, Scripting, Saas, Hyper-v, Bash, Ftp, Symantec, Emc, Policy management, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, SCCM Links http://linkedin.com/in/serry Additional Information SKILLS  • Office 365, Active Directory, Domain Controllers and Group Policy Management  • vCenter, vSphere, Hyper-V and ESXI Hypervisors  • Hubstor, Veeam and AppAssure backups  • DHCP, DNS, FTP, VPN, WDS, WSUS, KMS, MDT and SCCM technologies.  • McAfee ePO, Symantec SEP Encryption and Endpoint protections.  • Barracuda Content Shield, Emails gateway, Symantec Bluecoat, Proofpoint emails and content protection SaaS  solutions.  • Azure and AWS  • Nimble, EMC and Qnap storages  • Dell PowerEdge, Blades and HP ProLiant servers.  • PowerShell and Bash scripting.