Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Villa Rica, GA Work Experience Systems Administrator CoStar (ForRent) February 2018 to October 2018 Administered Dynamics AX system and designed architecture for and implemented division of customer order/billing data across companies,  involving whole-environment duplication inclusive of (DEV, TEST, PROD) servers, remote RDP access, AD rights, etc with zero down  time.  ? SSRS development for data replication, multi system integrations  including SalesForce and Dynamics AX, and reporting. Systems Administrator/Application Developer Dominion Enterprises February 1998 to February 2018 Managed, supported and developed the in house built integrations  between SalesForce, Dynamics AX, AS400, custom integrated  dashboard systems.  ? SQL DBA for MySQL and MS SQL servers  ? Managed the function of B2B billing portals with outside companies  such as Wells Fargo, InfoSend and BillTrust for billing automations  ? Supported and enhanced in house legacy web based systems used for Hotel Coupon Guide's national publication distribution.  ? Performed Dynamics AX system rollouts, development, maintenance  for multiple companies and environments  ? Developed and supported JD Edwards ERP systems  ? Design, development and deployment of integration between Telemagic and JD Edwards to eliminate double data entry.    ? Design, development and deployment of remote systems support  software to 20+ remote offices.  ? Design, development and deployment of PDF generation capability for Telemagic and other legacy systems.  ? Assisted conversion of 20+ remote offices from multiple independent  pieces of accounting software to TeleMagic for CRM, ad order entry, and billing.  ? Systems administration, for local office of 75 users running Windows, DOS, Mac, on the desktop and Windows NT, Novell Netware  ? Supervisor of one subordinate Systems administrator from 1998-2001 Systems Administrator/Application Developer April 1993 to February 1998 Design, development and deployment of internal facing classified  Ad/Order Entry system.  ? Supported multiple systems Novell Netware based, HP/UX, DOS, AIX, Solaris, Mac  ? Supported custom laser film printing devices, doing maintenance, light  repair, dealing with the very new interface to our publishing systems.    PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES/INTERESTS  ? Languages I am proficient in; C#, ASP, ASP.NET, VB, VBA, Java, C++, php, X++, VFP. I have also worked some in Perl and javascript, batch  files, bash scripting, some powershell.  ? I am proficient with most distros of Linux.  ? I enjoy learning about new technologies and fields and have recently been  experimenting with Docker Containers and researching Information Security  ? My greatest strength is my ability to find solutions and create  automations that save time and money. Education GED Solano Community College - Vacaville, CA 1987 to 1988 Skills MICROSOFT DYNAMICS, DYNAMICS, DYNAMICS AX, MICROSOFT DYNAMICS AX, TCP, TCP/IP, LINUX, FIREWALLS, INCIDENT RESPONSE, NETWORKING Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/el7b03lwlmfazd6u Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1ae17daannx3itz2 Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jdcc9zlkuv8gexfo Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  I am an seasoned systems administrator and security professional with over  20 years of experience. I have expertise in Windows and Linux system  administration, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 administration, development,  managed security, incident response, and patch management. I am familiar  with SalesForce. I can program in several languages and can easily pick up  new ones. I also have experience with TCP/IP networking, firewalls, routing,  and protocol analysis. I am looking forward to new challenges.