Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Industrial Maintenance Tech, IT Specialist, Linux Administrator Ripley, MS experience  Proficient troubleshooter with strong analytic and problem Diversity-Vuteq (Toyota)• Blue Springs • Maintenance (Current)  solving skills. Ability to diagnose and fix most pnumatic issues. • Pnumatic roller bed installation, diagnostics, braking, and troubleshooting.  • Electric forklift and tugger driver. Toyota tugger troubleshooting, and diagnostics.  Highly experienced and skilled IT systems administrator,  • Pnumatic sequencing, and PLC troubleshooting for Corolla brake line.  network specialist and computer service technician with over  • Welding, stick/wire/mig. Steel fabrication, grinding, cutting, and Creform.  20 years of experience cross-platform Windows, Mac and Linux.  • Concrete anchoring, and hammer drilling.  • Tugger/Forklift charger, AC/DC diagnostics, repair. Work Experience Systems Administrator LeiLogic - Tupelo, MS 2002 to 2003 Familiar with Manjaro, Ubuntu, (some) CentOS, Debian and • Designed, built, and maintained servers and networks for internet service provid- RedHat. er, based on Slackware & Debian Linux, to deploy RADIUS, PPPoE, vsFTP, BIND,  Exim, and Apache as well as Cisco 2500 hardware.  • Can learn anything. • Pioneered deployment of 802.11b AP units throughout the city of Tupelo on domestic water towers, and provided wifi to businesses and residential customers  • Knowledge of Apache-current, Bind, OpenSSH, sFtp, MySQL, Samba-current, various pop3 & imap configurations such as throughout the city.  Dovecot, and Exim4. Can solve problems with communication Systems Administrator BCI - Tupelo, MS 2001 to 2002 environment as well as work-arounds for no solution issues. • Rescued four compromised RedHat servers. Migrated to Slackware and Debian.  • Configured and set-up of network hardware and software applications  • Windows 3.11,95,98, Workstation 4, Pro 2000, XP, Win 7/8/10 • Performed network and user maintenance for 2,000+ users  • Provided technical support for DSL and Dialup users.  • Windows Server NT 4, 2000, 2008, 2012, 2016 Team Leader Compaq Inc 1999 to 1999 Led team to deploy Windows NT Workstation 4 for 180 desktops at three  locations using Norton Ghost from Tupelo to Holly Springs. Education Associate in Computer Science And Networking Itawamba Community College - Tupelo, MS 2018 Skills LINUX, FIREWALLS, LAN/WAN, ANDROID, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, Red Hat, Linux Administrator, Active Directory, Red Hat, Redhat, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, Microsoft Office (3 years) Certifications/Licenses OSHA 10 Present Industrial Maintenance 40 Present Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hhv2p-0biokx53o3 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.