Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Fayetteville, NC Seeking a position within the Federal, State, Local Government as well as the private sector to continue providing world class service and support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Jacobs Technology - Fort Bragg, NC November 2018 to Present SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR   November, 2018 - Present    Jacobs Engineering  Fort Bragg, NC    Installing operating system software, patches, and upgrades. Analyzing, troubleshooting and resolving system hardware, software, and networking Issues. Configuring, optimizing, fine-tuning, and monitoring operating system software and hardware. Performing system backups and recovery, conducting server builds. Managing, monitoring and maintaining server room equipment. Manages active directory server and add, remove, and provision user, computer and server accounts. Act as a SharePoint Designer by; managing Unit SharePoint pages by; providing new ways to allow unit readiness. Systems Administrator N3 Government Solutions - Fayetteville, NC March 2018 to November 2018 Serve as a System Administrator for the Logistics G4 section under Army Reserve Command Headquarters. Providing support to the Microsoft Deployment Team (MDT) in the creation and testing of the Unit Level Logistics System-Aviation Enhanced [ULLS-A (E)], Global Combat Support System-Army (GCSS-A), Database Server, Management and Provisioning Server (MPS), and Windows 10 image and installation checklist. Verifying that the image installation is free of errors and after the installation is completed, ensure Software Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) is running in the computer, and all software updates are installed. Verifying that McAfee Anti-virus connected to the ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) repository, and every application open and work correctly. Also works with the creation, movement, and permissions of objects in Active Directory. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST US Army Reserve - Moreno Valley, CA July 2012 to July 2018 Basic Training at Fort Benning, GA; Advanced Individual Training at Fort Gordon, GA;, Received Advanced Individual Training in computer networks, CISCO routers, and switches, as well as help desk, and advanced trouble shooting. Training also consisted of remote desktop connection and active client, also advanced training in SIPR with SKL (keyloaders) and Taclanes. More recent training consisted of CISCO Colorless Core routers and Switches. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR ESM Group Inc - Edwards AFB, CA March 2016 to October 2017 Provide technical expertise and guidance in support of the sustainment of the Operational Support System (OSS). Maintain continued system performance and stability. Follow strict procedures to ensure integrity of the OSS. Directed, collected, reported, disseminated, and tracked compliance of IAVM messages including Alerts (IAVA), Bulletins (IAVB), and Technical Bulletins (IATB). Identify enhancements and improvements to the OSS systems and/or sustainment processes to improve efficiency and overall data integrity of the OSS. Maintain all network and system architecture and design documents in accordance with set Standard Operating Procedures. Apply Microsoft system security patches in accordance to DOD regulations. STIG CISCO VTCs, printers/scanners, and standalone machines using DISAs DOD approved baseline STIGs. Operate Host Based Security System (HBSS), firewalls, Intrusion Prevention Systems, Intrusion Detection Systems, other point of presence security tools, Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), MS Exchange 2003/2010, Powershell, IBM BigFix, GPO Tools. Provide assistance in the procurement of components and services to support system maintenance, implementation and operation. Evaluate and recommend hardware and protocol alternatives to be used in the customer systems architecture. Support Information Assurance personnel to assure security architecture, design, and implementation is in accordance with DoD Regulations SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Leidos-TEKsystems - Edwards AFB, CA October 2014 to March 2016 Work as a Medical Systems Admin. Maintain and monitor Med Systems. Apply sever patches in accordance to DHA regulation to secure PII, and networking. Implement data network security measures. Detect and handle security incidents. Also work as an Account Administrator, Build user accounts on AirForce network for access to these medical systems. Position also works as functioning systems Help Desk Support.  Systems maintained by this Position: Composite Health Care System (CHCS), Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA) Education High school or equivalent Skills CISCO (5 years), graphical user interface (Less than 1 year), Help Desk (5 years), Help Desk Support. (1 year), Software testing (Less than 1 year), Vmware (2 years), STIG (2 years), VPN (2 years), HBSS (2 years), System Administration (6 years), System Administrator, System Admin, SCCM, Active Directory, Sharepoint (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses Security+ CE August 2019 to August 2022 VMware VCA-DBT August 2019 to Present Additional Information SKILLS  Systems Administration  Vulnerability Scans  HBSS  Software testing  VPNs  STIGs  Help Desk Support  Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10  Programming CISCO routers and switches  Experienced installing operating systems  Experienced in graphical user interface