Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - Information Management Group Inc Woodbridge, VA Results-driven and solutions-focused Senior Systems Engineer with over 15 years of technical experience. Detailed-oriented engineer offering a strong background in a Microsoft Windows-based environment. Proven track record of investigating and troubleshooting both systems and network issues, utilizing a customer-centric approach. Expert at upgrading both systems and infrastructures for Depart of Defense (DoD) organizations. Exceptional leadership skills and willingness and ability to work through tough situations and solve challenging problems. Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Information Management Group Inc - Fort Belvoir, VA January 2019 to Present 40-hours per week  • Applies proven communication, analytical, and problem-solving skills to help identify, communicate, and resolve issues in order to maximize the benefit of IT systems investments.  • Define, maintain and follow troubleshooting, resolution and escalation policies and processes  Participates in testing, upgrades and configuration of system and services. Evaluates and ensures changes are in accordance with appropriate operating procedures; recommends revisions or changes based upon results. May assist with the application of support packages/patches to maintain system integrity.  • Develop and complete actions in system specifications, technical, and logistical requirements.  • Assisted in the development of detailed project schedules, estimates, resource plans, and status reports. Manage, track and report on project schedule and performance progress.  • Lead technical planning for workflow and processes by evaluating and recommending tools to support implementation, troubleshooting and maintenance of infrastructure, services and processes.  • Manage all phases of Windows Server migration from Windows Server 2012 to Windows Server 2016 on multiple enclaves.  • Produce and deliver detailed status reports and briefings, along with periodic demonstrations of developed results, to document and demonstrate project progress.  • Provides leadership and work guidance to junior engineers and administrators.  • Provides multi-level technical support in defining, developing and evaluating products and services to meet customer needs. Supports these activities by diagnosing, reproducing and fixing software and hardware issues. Provides recommendations to improve the systems infrastructure and address/lead critical issues and analysis.  • Responsible for computer performance measurement, analysis, and tuning in a data center environment.  • Troubleshoots and resolves problems identified by system administrators and technical support staff or through monitoring software. Investigates, identifies and documents proposals that will improve platform and system recoverability and performance. Sr. Systems Administrator CSRA Inc - Quantico, VA June 2018 to January 2019 SECOPS  40-hours per week  • Configured and validated secure systems, tests security products/ systems to detect computer and information security weakness.  • Continual attention to periodic SCAP and STIG requirements needed to harden enterprise servers.  • Designed and implemented plans of action and milestones to remediate findings from vulnerability and risk assessments.  • Maintained network device and information security incident, damage, and threat assessment programs. Investigates network device and information security incidents to determine the extent of the compromise to national security information and automated information systems.  • Managed ACAS vulnerability reports and remediated as required.  • Provided information assurance for digital information, ensuring its confidentiality, integrity, and availability.  • Researched and maintained proficiency in tools, techniques, countermeasures, and trends in computer and network vulnerabilities, data hiding and network and device security and encryption.  • Responsibilities included the granting of authorization to operate IT systems at acceptable levels of risk, monitoring and testing of IT systems for vulnerabilities and indicia of compromise, incident response and remediation, the development of appropriate policy, relevant user security awareness and training, and compliance with applicable government and other external standards.  • Responsible for implementing and applying technologies, processes, and practices designed to protect networks, devices, programs, and data from malicious attack, damage, or unauthorized access. Senior Systems Engineer Information Management Group Inc - Fort Belvoir, VA July 2015 to June 2018 40-hours per week  • Applied proven communication, analytical, and problem-solving skills to help identify, communicate, and resolve issues in order to maximize the benefit of IT systems investments.  • Assisted in the development of detailed project schedules, estimates, resource plans, and status reports. Manage, track and report on project schedule and performance progress.  • Defined, maintained and followed troubleshooting, resolution and escalation policies and processes  • Participated in testing, upgrades and configuration of system and services. Evaluated and ensured changes were in accordance with appropriate operating procedures; recommended revisions or changes based upon results. Assisted with the application of support packages/patches to maintain system integrity.  • Developed and completed actions in system specifications, technical, and logistical requirements.  • Lead technical planning for workflow and processes by evaluating and recommending tools to support implementation, troubleshooting and maintenance of infrastructure, services and processes.  • Managed all phases of Windows Server migration from Windows Server 2008 to Windows Server 2012 on multiple enclaves.  • Produced and delivered detailed status reports and briefings, along with periodic demonstrations of developed results, to document and demonstrate project progress.  • Provided leadership and work guidance to junior engineers and administrators.  • Provided multi-level technical support in defining, developing and evaluating products and services to meet customer needs. Supports these activities by diagnosing, reproducing and fixing software and hardware issues. Provides recommendations to improve the systems infrastructure and address/lead critical issues and analysis.  • Responsible for computer performance measurement, analysis, and tuning in a data center environment.  • Troubleshot and resolved problems identified by system administrators and technical support staff or through monitoring software. Investigates, identifies and documents proposals that will improve platform and system recoverability and performance. Senior Systems Administrator Government Secure Solutions CGI Inc - Fort Belvoir, VA September 2013 to June 2015 40-hours per week  • Managed the day-to-day operations of CGI Inc. host computers by monitoring system performance, configuration, maintenance, and repair.  • Lead team of sixteen technical personnel in the completion of engineering tasks  • Participated in 24x7 on-call to provide support on emergency events.  • Trained technical staff to use newly acquired/developed software and hardware  • Established, maintained, and managed users thousands of Microsoft Windows and Exchange accounts.  • Maintained hundreds of virtual machines using VMware ESXI and vSphere client.  • Performed patch management and IAVA compliance remediation in accordance within Defense Information Security Agency (DISA) guidelines.  • Resolved TCP/IP network access problems.  • Regularly briefed senior government and senior military stakeholders  • Maintained logistical database and tracked all assets as they are ordered, inventoried, and disposed of  • Administered Cisco IP phone database for hundreds of users at local and remote sites.  • Ensured high availability and acceptable levels of performance of mission-critical host computer resources.  • Attended executive-level staff meetings and reported system updates to management.  • Provided training on COTS and GOTS software to end-users.  • Implemented domain and local policy GPO's. Systems Engineer Scientific Research Corporation - Fort Belvoir, VA July 2013 to September 2013 40-hours per week  • Managed operation, activities, and services of the enterprise Active Directory environment.  • Managed enterprise rollouts of new software and systems for clients.  • Provided systems administration, troubleshooting, and security administration of the enterprise environment.  • Created, managed, Group Policies, Sites and Services  • Provided incident and problem resolution, rapid response to field requests, and logged incidents.  • Implemented and managed Group Policy.  • Created and managed user accounts and security groups.  • Managed DNS and DHCP services.  • Managed virtual thin clients and servers. NetApp Storage Administrator Five Rivers Services - Fort Belvoir, VA February 2012 to March 2013 40-hours per week  • Managed the lifecycle replacement of NetAppliances on unclassified and classified networks.  • Actively participated in the planning and implementation of storage and backup solutions.  • Configured the organization's CIFS, NFS, ISCSI, and FC protocols.  • Conducted backup and recovery of virtual machines via NetApp Virtual Storage Console (VSC).  • Managed hosting servers, backups, system status monitoring, access, and provided application, automation, and troubleshooting support.  • Participated in 24x7 on-call rotation to provide support on emergency events.  • Configured and initiated data replication and archives through Snapmirror capability to the organization's disaster recovery site.  • Performed patch management and IAVA compliance remediation following the Defense Information Security Agency (DISA) guidelines.  • Provided space allocation through LUNS and volume provisioning.  • Coordinated data recovery of an outage within the IT infrastructure through execution of an integrated recovery plan.  • Monitored CIFS sessions and filer activities by collecting storage system statistics.  • Identified technical environment issues and implemented solutions to mitigate problems.  • Performed Tier 2-4 support for backup and recovery storage-related incidences. Systems Analyst Intermedia Group - Fort Belvoir, VA April 2011 to February 2012 40-hours per week  • Managed resource and capacity planning for multiple enclaves.  • Supported application functionality and remained current on release updates and products.  • Performed patch management and IAVA compliance remediation following the Defense Information Security Agency (DISA) guidelines.  • Organized, investigated, and resolved data and technical issues in a timely and effective manner.  • Troubleshot and resolved hardware, software, and connectivity problems, including user access and component configuration.  • Assisted with software testing releases.  • Provided training on COTS and GOTS software to end-users.  • Monitored servers for vulnerabilities, viruses and worms.  • Attended staff meetings and reported system updates to management daily.  • Written and maintained system documentation.  • Configured and installed new PC's, servers and network equipment in support of customer and internal projects. Windows System Administrator Five Rivers Services - Fort Belvoir, VA November 2009 to March 2011 40-hours per week  • Oversaw multiple enclaves from all phases of development.  • Was responsible for optimizing system performance which included input/output, disk storage, CPU usage, memory allocation, disk throughput, network traffic, uptime, and maintenance cost by monitoring current performance, analyzing possible problems/solutions and performing indicated modifications.  • Was responsible for the 24 X 7 data center operations such as rack installation, server configuration, server health monitoring, switch wiring, etc  • Audited Windows Server 2003, 2008 accounts and resources.  • Performed patch management and IAVA compliance remediation following DISA guidelines.  • Maintained a disaster recovery plan by documenting current system configuration, identifying, analyzing, and evaluating critical data/hardware issues and documentation and testing program.  • Coordinated and monitored to isolate and diagnose common system problems: documented system events to ensure continuous functionality. Recommended course of action and implemented as approved.  • Provided technical support to local and remote users.  • Configured laptop and desktop images to a Windows network.  • Attended staff meetings and reported system updates to management.  • Provided training on COTS and GOTS software to end-users.  • Implemented domain and local policy GPO's. Education BS in Networking Technology Strayer University - Alexandria, VA July 2016 to Present AAS in Computer Network Systems ITT Technical Institute - Springfield, VA June 2008 U.S. Army School of Information Technology - Fort Gordon, GA June 1998 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, VMWARE, SECURITY, HYPER-V, MICROSOFT WINDOWS Additional Information Key Skills  Planning, deploying, and maintaining Microsoft Windows Server 2016, Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft Hyper-V, VMware, Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP), STIG Viewer, Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS), Xacta IA Manager, mitigating server security vulnerabilities, and the life-cycling of hardware and software