Site Support Analyst Site Support Analyst Systems Engineer - On-site Computers, LLC Valparaiso, IN • IT consultant, having 20 years of experience in providing strategic guidance regarding IT technology and infrastructural enhancements to clients and organizations.  • Advanced knowledge of Windows Operating Systems, Microsoft Server 2000-2012, Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange Server, Linux, Microsoft Office, and Mac OSX.  • Well-versed in designing, building, and troubleshooting LAN-WAN and replacing Server hardware.  • Devising innovative strategies to resolve recurring computer and network problems. Work Experience Site Support Analyst Briljent - Indianapolis, IN July 2019 to Present Working on a project for the State of Indiana, training state employees how to use the new IEDSS system.  Advising employees on policy and procedures. Systems Engineer On-site Computers, LLC - Crown Point, IN October 2018 to January 2019 • Develop and maintain all manner of I.T. systems for clients • Provide 7/24 on-call remote, and on-site I.T. support for clients in various cities.  • Maintain I.T. systems for clients.  • Develop and recommended I.T. solutions for business work flow improvement.  • Hardware repair, and installation.    Supervisor: Adam Davis 219-789-9634 Systems Engineer Sparkplug Strategies - Michigan City, IN September 2016 to October 2017 • Recruitment, and development of I.T. staff.  • Develop and maintain all manner of I.T. systems for small business clients.  • Provided 7/24 on call remote and on-site I.T. support for clients in various cities.  • Maintain I.T. systems for clients.  • Develop and recommended I.T. solutions for business work flow improvement.  • Hardware repair, and installation.    Supervisor: Michael Beebe 219-369-2277 Contractor Romack INC - Irving, TX May 2015 to January 2016 Consultant • Implemented SQL Server Migration, Windows server 2008 to 2012 migrations.  • Installation and configuration of Server OS including Server 2012 • Project Documentation including Change Control, Firewall requests, product mapping, and Diagrams Computer Tech CHAOS COMPUTERS - Hobart, IN January 2015 to March 2015 • Resolved virus and malware issues with a 100% success rate.  • Set up equipment, including installing cables and hardware.  • Installed software and operating systems on client computers.  • Set up and configured hardware and software on client equipment.  • Maintained accurate hardware and software inventories.  • Restored data, operating systems, files, documents and drivers.  • Order from vendors, price markup and made deliveries when applicable. TRU CHECK METERING SERVICES - Valparaiso, IN June 2013 to June 2014 • Updated service record files on equipment drawings and history.  • Recorded the respective measurements for each project.  • Worked extended hours on weekday and weekend projects.  • Consulted with the supervisor electrician regarding the likely risks associated with the assigned job.  • Consistently updated knowledge of safety requirements and policies.  • Developed in-depth knowledge of arc flash ratings and standards Administrator VISITING NURSE ASSOCIATION OF PORTER COUNTY - Valparaiso, IN October 2011 to April 2012 *Contract  VNA of Porter County   • Administered Servers utilizing Microsoft Server 2008-2012 • Microsoft Active Directory • Microsoft Exchange Server • VMware, VMware Fusion, VMware vSphere Hypervisor, EXS/EXSI • Aligned office departments and increased inter-department communication and data sharing.  • Recommended network security standards to management.  • Monitored network performance and provided network performance statistical reports for both real-time and historical measurements.  • Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on-and off-site.  • Recommended architectural improvements, design solutions and integration solutions.  • Designed and implemented new server standards for core business services.  • Responsible for scheduling meetings with admins for updates on current and future endeavors • Managed WAN reaching across 3 external sites with 200+ users Administrator *Contract Andrews Automotive - Chicago, IL October 2010 to March 2011 • Managed Servers utilizing Microsoft Server 2008 R2 • Microsoft Active Directory • Microsoft Exchange server • VMware • Provided methodologies for object-oriented software development and efficient database design.  • Recommended architectural improvements, design solutions and integration solutions.  • Installed software, modified and repaired hardware and resolved technical issues.  • Identified and solved technical issues with a variety of diagnostic tools.  • Established compatibility with third party software products by developing program for modification and integration.  • Provided continued maintenance and development of bug fixes and patch sets for existing web applications.  • Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades. Pirtano Construction Inc - Portage, IN September 2006 to March 2009 • Trained in installation of Comcast Triple-Play.  • Tested UTP copper and fiber cabling.  • Completed logs and reports according to established policies and procedures.  • Diagnosed and repaired hardware, software and system issues.  • Calibrated and monitored devices following installation.  • Programmed and troubleshot devices following installation.  • Recommended system-level hardware and software installations.  • Attached electrical and telephone wiring to properly connect components.  • Fed cables through access holes, roof spaces and cavity walls.  • Positioned and terminated cables, wires and strapping.  • Drilled holes for wiring in wall studs, joists, ceilings and floors. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science SAWYER BUSINESS COLLEGE - Merrillville, IN August 1999 to May 2001 High school VALPARASIO HIGH SCHOOL 1988 to 1992 Skills Cisco (Less than 1 year), Firewalls (5 years), Active Directory (5 years), System Administrator (5 years), Desktop Support (6 years), MAC (10+ years), Tech Support (6 years), Help Desk (5 years) Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gbelytwzmf9dzr8t Verbal Communication — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jdxlyqlwwttxeegq Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wjqhqd7-prngyaff Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Familiar January 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0tyximgbfllrzkv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Broad Spectrum of technical skills  • Proven Leadership skills  • Analytical  • Excellent communication skills  • Team Player    SKILLSET    Hardware design and build for the following platforms:  Desktops: IBM, HP, Dell, Toshiba, Mac.  Servers: HP, IBM, DELL.  Norton ghost imaging software.  Routing: Cisco, HP Pro Curve, and Dell.  Firewalls: Watchdog Firebox, Sonic wall, PFsense.  OS Install and configurations: Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8-8.1, 10, Linux (Red Hat, Suse, Fedora, Yellow Dog)  Windows Server NT 4.0, 2000 Advanced Server, 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016.  Virtualization: VM Ware, Exsi 5.0-6.5, Parallels 11, Fusion 8, Workstation 11-12.5, Hyper V.