Lead Enterprise Analyst Lead Enterprise Analyst Lead Enterprise Analyst Greenbelt, MD As a Talented Systems Administrator offering over 7 years of experience in a Linux/ Windows Environment, with expertise in Flavors of Linux; Red Hat v.6/7, CentOS v.6/7, Ubuntu, SUSE and Windows; Windows Server 2008, 2012.    Being a seasoned computer Hardware/Software Specialist, an astute Computer Network Security Professional, including a vast knowledge in server virtualization technologies, my objective is to use my knowledge, talents and skills to improve the organization I am privileged to work. I am of the opinion that I must always bring something positive to the table - so I am always willing to learn, drive projects to their success and completion, and always enhance my technical skills and approaches to be of great service to my employer. Work Experience Lead Enterprise Analyst HAYS / 22nd Century Staffing December 2018 to May 2019 Contract with United States Patent and Trademarks (USPTO)  Lead Team Enterprise Analyst for USPTO in support of infrastructure monitoring - Provide expertise and knowledge to help understand and solve daily enterprise issues.  • Monitor Site wide (Production, Dev, Recovery) Applications and devices. These range from Juniper Switches, Cisco Routers, Window Machines, Linux Machines, Database Storage (VION) and more, Using tools such as Q-radar, Splunk, SiteScope/SAAM, NNMI, and F5 monitoring tools.  • Co-ordinate support Teams and system owners to troubleshoot infrastructure issues (such as power Outages, System maintenance failures/rollbacks, application errors/device errors and etc.) VIA Web-Ex Sessions and Outlook Meetings.  • Communicate (by phone/e-mail) to notify Executives of Application/ System outages and failures surrounding the Enterprise that will affect customers, in order to provide situational awareness and restore times of applications and systems.  • Approve and Delegate times of system Maintenances/upgrades to various application and devices, as a means of suppressing unwanted monitoring to better identify real-time errors.  • Work with support groups in updates of system and device monitoring, reporting when any system or device is having an issue, using monitoring and investigative tools to help support groups better understand errors of such.  • Help support groups update System infrastructure Information, on intranet web portals, to help identify; systems, devices, and various application servers pooled within an application rendering.  • Provide Support groups statistical information of system usage and demographics, to help tweak and provide proactive methods to ensure their systems/applications integrity and stability on the network. Such statistic include graphs (from monitoring tools) to highlight; data mining, DOS attacks, rouge users, un-wanted user traffic, unauthorized system / geographic logins and more. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR One Globe, LLC - Reston, VA November 2017 to September 2018 Contract with BoozAllen Federal Project  Administration of Windows with support of Oracle, VMware and Linux Machines - Providing Ongoing support; Change management of code deployments on Windows Web servers, Infrastructure Changes; Planning; Monitoring, Virtual Machines, and Web IIS/Code fusion application Management.    • Security and Log Server Documentation /Report Analysis using tools such as Event Tracker and Tenable Nessus Pro on multitude of Virtual hosts OS machines, as well as individual application servers.  • Managing of Web Server Code deployment process; Code deployment to Application Servers/Databases, backup and Tracking using  - CI/CD tool; Mercurial, BI Reporting using Tableau Server Application as other front-end Windows interface tools.  • Server Physical Management on VMware vSphere, Managing/Working with V-Center Appliances and attached databases.  • Perform Security Adherence Implementing POA&M remediation and security hardening in compliance w\ NIST standards, including Tenable Security Scan Analysis and Review.  • Environment-Wide Patches: Windows WSUS for 2008, 2012 R2 -, and JAVA, VMware VSphere, Oracle 12c, Tableau Server, Linux 6.9, Security Monitoring and software upgrade with Vendor using video host and more.  • Customer Interaction and Data/Impact Analysis Reporting:  • Documentations: Include Server Builds, Access, User Manuals, O&M updates Software/Hardware Assets.  • Tracking and Disposition, Incident reports-tracking, Software Plan/Upgrade Schedules, Product VDD's and more.  • Perform VMware vSphere Host migrations, Storage and network managements and ESXI server patches and upgrades.  • Jira-Perform Project Lifecycle tracking, documentations and customer feedback.  • Physical Infrastructure Standby, Disaster recovery and maintenance- Memory, HDD/SSD/Tape Drives and Networks and etc. upgrades and repairs as needed. LINUX/WINDOWS SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR ALLIED UNIVERSAL - Greenbelt, MD February 2014 to December 2017 Administration of Linux (RHEL, CentOS Machines) and Windows Servers- This involves the Management skills of; Installation, Testing, Tuning, Upgrading, loading system Patches, Troubleshooting and Managing through Physical and Virtual and Cloud Machines using Amazon Services (AWS), VMware ESXI Servers Using VSphere and VMware Workstation.  Daily, Weekly, Monthly Task;    • Creating Multiple Machines (automated Installations), Cloning Linux Machines and Virtual Machines not excluding Daily    • Snapshots.  • Access Control of User, groups and Staff.    • This Includes Passwords (Monthly Updates), Permissions (Access to files, Directories and their subdirectories), and File Servers.    • Experience Managing Linux Network Profiles and Firewall on RHEL6/7.XX: IPtables, Firewalld, Nmcli, Network Card Configuration; IP routes and DNS.  • Experience Managing SeLinux Security, including SELinux Modes and Policy, Labels and Booleans.  • Documentation of Baseline Standard Configuration and updates per Server i.e.    • Patches, System updates, Packages, Memory, Storage, System Versions and etc.  • Managing and providing support for Jenkins, GitHub and JIRA Designed and developed Jenkins Build deployments. Used GIT as Version Control System for two applications. Managed development streams and integration streams.  • Migrated the current Linux environment to AWS/RHEL Linux environment and used auto scaling feature.  • Managing EC2 Instances on AWS with tools such as Putty and Pageant for secure ssh sessions.  • Adding and Up-keeping Network Storages with Security; ISCSI Target Storages, Mounted Physical, Volume and Logical Storages NFS Exports and Samba Clients/UACL and Windows SAN.  • Package management - YUM and RPM package installations, updates, rollback patches and others.  • Administration of RHEL 5 and 6 which includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading and loading patches, troubleshooting virtual server issues.  • Responsible for configuring and managing DNS, DHCP, SMTP, Samba, NFS, NTP, FTP, SSH, LDAP, servers in Linux.  • Installation of Database servers and user's management such as Oracle, MySQL/MariaDB Server.  • Manage ISCI SAN disk management to assign LUN its client.  • Creating, cloning Linux Virtual Machines, templates using VMware Virtual Client 6.  • Configured and implemented backup and restoration of MariaDB databases.  • Involved in applying Patches, Installing patch bundles on HP-UX and Red hat Linux.  • Performed automated installations of Operating System using Kick start for Linux.  • DevOps Experience Integrating and deploying Services with:  Amazon CLI, EC2, S3, CloudFront - Involved in designing and deploying a multitude application utilizing some of the AWS stack (Including EC2, RDS, Dynamo DB) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  Comprehensive knowledge of Automation with Linux Systems using Puppet  Managing and providing support for Jenkins, GitHub and JIRA Designed and developed Jenkins Build deployments.  Configuration of GIT/Github as Version Control System for applications code, Continuous Integration and development.    • Configuring and monitoring disk mirroring, striping using LVM. NFS configuration & administration.  • Monitoring & troubleshooting with performance related issues -  • Performed security monitoring tests to identify Intrusions and provided Tier 2 and Tier 3 technical support. Deployed performance enhancing/monitoring tools.  • Remote monitoring and solving the problems of web servers and application servers and implementing, supporting and reporting infrastructure Monitoring tools like Nagios.  • Creating file system and configure to available network through NFS.  • Monitored the performance of the system using top, SAR, ps, prstat, vmstat, and cpu info to check the CPU utilization, bottlenecks of I/O devices, memory usage and network traffic  • Creation of groups, adding user ID to a group as a primary or secondary group, removing user ID from a group.  • Creation and management of users' and groups' accounts, passwords, profiles, security (ACL, Disk Quota, and PAM), permissions, disk space usage and processes.    • Performing Logical Volume Management.    • Devise strategies for Disaster Recovery Management (DR), including planning and designing servers for back up, recovery and    • archival of server.    • Strong working knowledge of Routers and Switches, VLAN, TCP/IP, VPN, OSI model, Firewall (checkpoint), VOIP.    • Installed VMware ESXi software which is a part of vSphere suite on bare metal hardware and implemented several virtual hosts on    • top of that ESXi environment.    • Installed, monitored and managed several virtual hosts on VMware ESXi using the software vSphere client.    • Installed VMware vSphere client software which is a part of vSphere suite on a client machine to monitor the virtual hosts. VIDEO/NETWORK SUPPORT ENGINEER WINNER CHAPEL INTERNATIONAL MARYLAND - Lanham, MD March 2014 to July 2016 • Control and Broadcast live video feeds.    • perform the jobs of IP- Based Broadcasting of live video and audio feeds to websites.    • Use IP based software to produce Live video stream. Imagining, migration of systems, Daily/Weekly backups of pertinent audio and    • video data.  Physical hardware and Software Set-up; Installment of network cables and routers to meet specific networking needs ;(LAN Setup). Lead Monthly and Quarterly Training and refresher workshops of Junior Staff and New Staff. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR ECOITSYSTEMS, LLC - Lanham, MD May 2012 to January 2014 Administration of both Windows and Linux Machines - Providing ongoing management of Windows and Linux Servers (i.e.) Resource Management, Installations/Setup, Imaging, performance-tuning and Tier 3 support for Troubleshooting servers.  Daily, Weekly, Monthly Task;  Linux Environment:  • Troubleshooting and maintaining Linux Servers for a mid-sized educational services company.  • Manage Access Control- Create, Manage and assign user Permission as well as set up user access to files and servers.  • Perform Server Installations, resource allocation, image back-up/clone.  • Yum and RPM Package installations, back up, upgrades and Custom In-house Network Repository.  • Implemented LVMs and Raid level concepts in the production environment and added LUN space to the existing Linux systems. Automated Installations of operating Machines using KickStart.  • Prepare specifications for new infrastructure and VMware servers, disk storage, and network switches, routers, firewalls, and VPN's. Configuration of HTTP, SAMBA and NFS, FTP Servers and Clients.  • Firewall Access -Services, Ports, Protocol and Rich rules.  • Management scheduling cron jobs, system logging and network logging.  • Regular disk management such as partitioning according to requirements, creating new file systems or growing existing ones over the hard drives and managing file systems.  • Create and manage resource pools by determining the necessity of resources for application servers and moving them into the essential resource pools.    Windows Environment:  • Window Server (2003/2008/2012) Installations, Configuration, System Migration and design Planning.    • Perform Active Directory administration of Users, Groups, and DNS.    • Application Migrations which include Environment setup, Compatibility Testing and Installation.    • Mapping shared drives as needed to user Laptop and Desktop for future Access.    VMware Environment:  • Perform Installation of VMware Workstation.    • Conduct Installation and configuration of Linux and Window Virtual Machines.    • Resource Allocation such as Storage, Ram, and Eternal Drives.  • Network Configuration and More.    • Provide system Reliability/Redundancy through; System Cloning and Imaging.    • Connect and Manage Multiple Servers on VMware vSphere 5.5/6.5-Web Client Manager.    Non-Profit Project Education Bachelor of Science in COMPUTER INFORMATIONS SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND UNIVERSITY COLLEGE - Adelphi, MD Present Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, NETWORK STORAGE, NFS, SYSTEM MANAGEMENT, SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION, VMWARE, LINUX, RED HAT, DEVOPS, DNS, PUPPET, COLDFUSION, SECURITY, WEB SERVICES, ISCSI, COMPTIA, NIST, FIREWALL, DATA BACKUP, DATABASE ADMINISTRATION