System's Administrator System's <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Albuquerque, NM With 8 years of end user and Windows server support I am seeking an advanced position that capitalizes on my interest and passion, and that will enhance your organization's quality, integrity, production, and reputation.  ACCOMPLISHMENTS/QUALIFICATIONS:  • Troubleshooting printers, copiers, and end user workstations on site or via remote session with Bombgar remote support software.  • Great ability to manage daily and end of month XP processing with minimal mistakes with a high production rate.  • Suburb multi-tasking, and customer service skills  • Setup Active Directory profiles, roaming profiles, and group policy setup.  • Re-imaging, resetting Active Directory passwords, and performance monitoring of routers, servers, desktops, and mobile devices.  • Senior Helpdesk Analyst position created due to my excellent knowledge and use of the OSI model and outstanding performance managing the Helpdesk department.  • Excellent skills in Microsoft Office products such as troubleshooting issues and repair of profiles pertaining to Microsoft Outlook including archiving folders and mobile device setup.  • Hold the highest level in punctuality, organization, quality, and reliability.  • Excellent multitasking, communication and troubleshooting skills for managing.  • Manage GPO settings and configure settings for company security.  • Setup and deployment of Folder Redirection in Windows Server 2016.  • Redesign file server for improved security.  • Install and configure Windows Server 2016 for development services.  • Proficient in scripting and coding for Linux OS based systems.  • Ability to think outside of the box when system outages arise to regain connectivity in a timely manner without much loss of production.  • Design security and distribution groups for each department.  • Knowledge of MDT and SDK services and implementation of these services.  • Secure all workstations by implementing GPO settings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System's Administrator Indian Pueblo Cultural Center - Albuquerque, NM February 2019 to June 2019 • Manage Microsoft Servers, Backup, & Hyper.V  • Configure and manage GPO settings.  • Add, enable, disable and configure AD profile settings.  • Configure and deploy folder redirection.  • Manage and configure DR and backup data.  • Manage and configure AD OU's and Security Groups. Core Systems Administrator Nusenda Federal Credit Union - Albuquerque, NM October 2014 to September 2018 87107  (505) 889-2587  Supervisor: Mike Soto    • Displayed and maintained the highest quality of end user support.  • Voluntarily extended my service out as Core Systems Administrator and self-taught the role to fill in any gaps that may cause the company distress.  • Managed and pre-planned departmental projects such as Yearly enterprise re-imaging, updating company hardware, and yearly core software updates and patches.  • Assisted Desktop Administrator in software configuration for updated images.  • Built and excellent relationship with clients and vendors with a display of knowledgeable skills.  • Automated our daily core software and configured software to run maintenance as scheduled with flawless data output after vigorous testing.  • Setup patch panels, new workstation termination and drop installation, and LAN setup for point to point access.  • Introduced and configured an FTP client utilized for transferring data between enterprise and vendors.  • Instructed new users on safe and secure workstation practices.  • Troubleshoot issues with AD profiles and made configuration adjustments stop data looping as a significant number of users were access temporary profiles.  • Update and monitor offsite disaster recovery.  • Reporting any suspicion of any malicious acts towards company system.  • I have excelled in maintaining a great relationship with my department staff and displayed excellent service to the company's integrity.  • Multifunctional skills related to SQL, Linux OS, Windows 7 & 10 OS, and Apple products for device deployment and troubleshoot issues pertaining to these operating systems. Helpdesk technician New Mexico Heart Institute October 2013 to October 2014 502 Elm St. NE  Albuquerque NM, 87102  (505) 841-1000  Supervisor: Scott    • End user support and new workstation setups.  • Developed excellent Active Directory, Network, and workstation troubleshooting skills utilizing the OSI model.  • Scheduled incoming OS and server patches.  • Adding new printers within our print server OS Windows Server 2008.  • Gained knowledge in Cisco routing and switching for troubleshooting network connectivity.  • Maintained an excellent service rating while maintaining well-organized ticket UI.  • Adding new hires in AD and gained significant knowledge in group policy order.  • Installation of hardware and software.  • Gained knowledge of network infrastructure, proxy server setup, and firewall maintenance.  • Developed hands on experience in setting up VM's, VoIP calling with Cisco Systems, and Cisco VPN's. Education Associate of Applied Science in Network Systems Administration ITT Technical Institute - Albuquerque, NM 2016