Network & System Administrator Network &amp; <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network & System Administrator - Left/Right LLC Work Experience Network & System Administrator Left/Right LLC October 2018 to Present Project-Worked with upgrading, deploying and maintaining Symantec Antivirus on the in-house network.  ? Project- Configure, install & maintain UNMS system for the Ubiquiti equipment in-house.  ? Project- Handled migration from a hosted exchange server to G Suite/Outlook.  ? Administration on VMWare VSphere client and Server.  ? Administration of in house networking equipment- including: Ubiquiti, Dell Switches  ? Maintaining and backing up switches and network equipment.  ? Install, configure, patch and upgrade assigned systems. Perform system monitoring utilizing enterprise tools, performance tuning and troubleshooting.  ? Administration for the following in-house services- GSuite/MDM/Adobe/VSphere/Microsoft AD/Office.  ? Handling G-Suite Administration, onboarding and off boarding users, goggle team drive administration, etc.  ? Providing Support to users for issues related to Mac and Windows with the help of Teamwork Desk ticketing system.  ? Make needed upgrades and repairs to networks and ensure that systems are operating correctly Support Engineer/ System Admin Chromocell Corporation April 2018 to October 2018 Under the direction of IT Director, provide support to end-users.  ? Acknowledge and resolve user service requests utilizing helpdesk system SpiceWorks.  ? Perform administration of users with Active Directory and also experienced in Exchange Administration.  ? Research and recommend innovative or automated approaches for system administration tasks. Identify approaches that leverage our resources and provide economies of scale.  ? Perform system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  ? Application support including application/web administration, account management, backup/recovery, automation/scripting, storage configuration (manage/allocate growth), monitoring (events, logs, system health). Site-to-Site VPN-ASA August 2018 to August 2018 Configured ASA interfaces configure and enable ISAKMP policy.  ? Configured tunnel groups, ACL for VPN traffic, NAT Exemption and crypto ISAKMP key on Cisco Packet Tracer. Systems Administrator Intern Solwizs Inc September 2017 to March 2018 Installing, configuring and troubleshooting of all of desktops, laptops and servers.  ? Administration of environment for Cisco Routers and Switches, Cisco UCS, virtualized systems from VMware and write technical documents.  ? Experience on installing, configuring and administering VMware ESXi 5.5 including creating and management of VM's and also their maintenance and troubleshooting issues.  ? Provide support to Windows servers O/S, Linux Ubuntu, Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, NTP and Microsoft Server 2012 database administration, disaster recovery planning, network security concepts and troubleshooting problems, VDI Servers and cloud based technologies. Intern Smart Logic - Gujarat, IN January 2014 to May 2014 Configured IP settings, checked firewall and RFID settings, ran Python codes  ? Worked on "Sixth Sense" technology, while attending workshop by Smart Logic Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ May 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics & Communication Gujarat Technological University - Gujarat, IN May 2015 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, BGP, CISCO, DHCP, EIGRP, Windows, Networking, Technical Support, Mac Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/vaidehi-trivedi-08084b85 Certifications/Licenses UBRSS Present UBRSA Present