IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Manager - Systems Administrator Wallingford, CT Experienced, driven, capable, dedicated Systems Administrator and Senior Desktop Support Specialist with demonstrated success managing daily enterprise operations for multiple sites on multiple networks. Experienced in VMware, vulnerability and patch management, banking and credit union cores, MDM administration. Energetic IT project rollout manager, especially experienced in initiatives that improve efficiency and contribute to bottom-line. Quickly adapts to/leverages applications & technologies.    I have several years of experience as a Systems Administrator and Senior Desktop Support professional. Experience as a Windows and VMware Systems Administrator, Mobile Device Management MDM, Print Management, Wi-Fi, Patching and Security, Active Directory, Office 365 and OneDrive for Business, patching and vulnerability remediation, and VoIP, Mitel and Avaya Phone Systems, just to highlight a few of the major skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems Administrator Middletown, CT - Middletown, CT August 2017 to Present I currently provide all the day to day System Administration, user and desktop support, in a credit union with a small two person IT Dept., supporting six sites, 60 users, 100+ physical workstation and laptops, 50+ VMs servers and workstations, mobile devices, printers, etc.    • Currently converting to a new core software platform, managing the setup, security and conversion of the users, PCs and peripherals to the new systems.  • Manage all on-boarding and off-boarding of all employees.  • Manage the patching and vulnerability of all devices using Qualys and GFI LanGuard  • Manage IT Audits by federal, state, NCUA and private auditors.  • Manage AD and all software systems used across the organization.  • Manage Mitel VoIP phone system  • Manage building and employee security system, badges, cameras, DVRs  • Manage most day to day issues, including but not limited to, ticketing system, Active Directory, anti-virus, NCR ITM and ATM systems, print management, network, VPN, back office credit union operations, Office 365 just to list a few.  • Manage hardware mostly Dell, Microsoft Surface Laptops, iPhones, iPads, Androids, HP and Ricoh MFPs. Information Technology Specialist Verizon Wireless Zone/TCC Corporate Headquarters - Rocky Hill, CT 2016 to 2017 As an IT Specialist at Verizon Wireless Zone, I worked on several corporate projects, provided day to day onsite and remote user, hardware, MDM and security support to all staff and over 400 stores nationally.    • Lead Mobile Device Management tech, supporting all iPads, iOS's and Cisco Meraki MDM.  • Rolled out, trained and supported Office 365 & Office 2016 to all users to all users.  • Rolled out project of moving users off Dropbox, deployed and migrated data to OneDrive 2016.  • Rolled out project of migrating all computers from McAfee to Sophos Anti-Virus.  • Provided day to day and remote support using Kayako ticketing system, supporting all users, building, upgrading, repairing, Windows 7 & Windows 10 desktops, laptops, Microsoft Surface Pro's, Apple iPad, iPhone and Android mobile phones, thin clients, MFP printers, Cisco VoIP phone system, VeriFone credit card machines, Topaz signature pads, access points, VPN, etc.  • Managed all aspects of user administration, including on/off boarding, email, Active Directory, Group Policies.  • Software support, patching, vulnerability remediation, keeping all devices updated and secure. Systems Administrator | Senior Desktop Support The Record-Journal Publishing Co - Meriden, CT 2015 to 2016 Single-handedly managed the entire IT Dept. Provided 24 x 7 x 365 support for The Record Journal and it's two sister companies, Sun Publishing, and VS Media in Florida. Supervising one desktop support IT temp employee for projects. Manage all aspects of IT, users, infrastructure, network, desktops, laptops, users, printers, Avaya and Nortel phone systems, Google Apps, Mobile Device Management of iPhones & iPads, Newscycle-DTI core software, projects and rollouts. Moved the IT Dept. and all user hardware at two sites to two separate locations.    • Manage and lead the moving of The Record Journal IT Dep., and all hardware to a new location, move, setup computers, printers, servers, infrastructure, and phone system.  • Managed IT move of the sister company Sun Publishing office, setup new office space, install computers, TVs, phones, VoIP, printers, MFDs, conference rooms and video conferencing.  • Supported physical and VMs, Windows Servers 2003, 2008, and 2012, Windows 7, supporting VMWare Center v5.5 at two sites and two domains, infrastructure & network, patching & updating all devices.  • Support Avaya and Nortel phone and voicemail systems, Backup Exec 2014.  • Managed all aspects of user administration, on/off boarding, email, security, Active Directory & Group Policy.  • Implemented a help desk ticketing system, across the corporation.  • Manage all systems including wireless, white noise, Keyscan Access Control door and fob system, anti-virus, VPN, Spiceworks Helpdesk, Inventory and Network Alerting. Google Apps and Google Gmail Admin.  • Downsized & supported large fleet of printers to a few Canon, HP & Sharp MFDs. Infrastructure Systems Administrator Ion Bank - Naugatuck, CT 2012 to 2015 Provided daily System Administrator and Senior Desktop Support for a growing 23 location bank.    • Project & support lead for MDM Mobile Device Management and fleet of iPhones. Completed upgrade Mobile Iron MDM system, upgraded 200+ iPhones, migrated users, data and email.  • Patching and vulnerability remediation using VMWare Shavlik Protect 9, and BMC FootPrints Asset Core 11.7  • Monitor and remediate internal and external penetration scans threats using Digital Defense.  • Administer 325+ users, including on/off boarding, Exchange email, and Active Directory.  • Managed 90+ physical & virtual Windows 2003, 2008, & 2012 servers, and 425+ Windows 7 and Windows 8/8.1HP, Dell, Lenovo workstations, laptops and Microsoft Surface Pro 3 devices, in 23 locations.  • Project and support lead for installing 6 ITM/PTM (Interactive/Personal Teller Machine) supporting hardware and software from NCR and uGenius in 3 locations, including daily support.  • Project & support lead, retired fleet of old printers, upgraded to 40 new Canon MFD devices in all locations, supporting scan to email, fax, print, and copy, including ongoing daily support.  • Install and support Aruba wireless project including access points in all locations  • Support Exchange email system, 4 Windows Server 2008 VM's with Exchange 2010  • Project and support lead, upgraded from Nortel to Avaya VoIP phone & voicemail system. Including 200+ Avaya desk phones.  • Support Zeacom voicemail, Kaspersky anti-virus.  • Project and support lead when Ion Bank acquired a local Cheshire insurance agency, merged it into our existing agency, then we moved both locations into a new building.  • Provide day to day senior level desktop support, assisting desktop support tech all staff.  • Maintained network and user security via Active Directory, Group Policies and NTFS permissions Infrastructure Analyst Alloya Corporate Federal Credit Union - Wallingford, CT 2010 to 2011 Very similar role as my position at Ion Bank.)    • Provided day to day senior desktop support, user & system administration of multi-site and domain company, on/off boarding, Active Directory, backups, disaster recovery.  • Managed Windows Server 2003 & 2008 networks (over 100 servers in 2 locations), physical & VMware.  • Maintained network and user security via Active Directory, Group Policies and NTFS permissions  • Patched & upgraded servers, desktops, managed Ghost images, provided senior level desktop support, promptly responding to trouble tickets for anything in the enterprise Infrastructure Project Coordinator Boehringer-Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals - Danbury, CT 2009 to 2010 Worked as contractor for large national rollout project. Provided senior level desktop and user support for software, hardware.  • Conducted global rollout project of over 3000 HP tablets.  • Managed Ghost imaging and IT asset inventory project work to successful conclusion  • Updated and led Active Directory, Group Policy, Account and Group management Education High school or equivalent Skills Active Directory (8 years), printers (10+ years), security (8 years), VMWare (6 years), Wireless (8 years), Windows Xp (10+ years), Windows 7 (8 years), Windows 10 (3 years), iPads (7 years), iPhone (10+ years), Android (10+ years), Mobile Device Management (9 years), OneDrive for Business (3 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Patching and Vulnerability Management (10+ years), VOIP (5 years), Syste (10+ years), Desk (10+ years), User Account Management On/Off boarding (10+ years), Laptops (10+ years), Desktops (10+ years), Tablets (8 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Windows Server 2008 (10+ years), VOIP (5 years), Vulnerability Management (10+ years), Patch Management (10+ years), Qualys (2 years) Additional Information CERTIFICATIONS & SKILLS  Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP), Working on MCITP and Security+  Connecticut Computer Service, Microsoft Certified Technical Education Center  Completed multiple courses on support and administration of Windows Server NT 4 0, A+ Core Technologies  and A+ Operating Systems  Operating Systems: Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 8.1 & 10, Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008 & 2012, VMware ESX Server 3x, 4x, 5x, Apple iOS  Hardware: Microsoft Surface Pro, iPhones, iPads, Servers, Workstation & Laptops (HP, Dell, Lenovo), Avaya & Nortel Phone and Voicemail System, Canon, Sharp & HP MFDs and printers. Aruba wireless access points.  Software: Sophos Anti-Virus, Kayako Help Desk, Cisco Meraki Mobile Device Management, Apple Configurator Mobile Device Management, RSA Security Tokens, BMC FootPrints Asset Core & Service Core, Numara Track-IT, Fiserv Cleartouch, Zeacom, Active Directory, Group Policy, Exchange 2003& 2010, SQL Server, IIS Web Server, DNS, DHCP, WSUS, Microsoft Office Suite, Visio, VMware, Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager, Symantec Backup Exec, Symantec Ghost, Numara TrackIt, DoubleTake, RSA Authentication Manager, Good Mobile Messaging, Goto Assist, Oracle, MonitorIT, Hyena, Remote Desktop, LAN & Wireless Networking, Bomgar remote desktop, View-it, NCR Network Manager, 3VR Security DVR, Hitec, SolarWinds, SilverSky, ProofPoint, Veeam & Evault Backup, EasyLender, FaxPress, Executive insight, NICE Recording, Topaz, Google Apps, NewsCycle, DTI, AdBase, Citrix, Keyscan, Spiceworks, Nagios