Cloud Systems Engineer Cloud <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Cloud Systems Engineer - USWired San Jose, CA Work Experience Cloud Systems Engineer USWired April 2018 to Present • Manage the daily activities of all desktop support engineers on my team.  • Support 100+ companies around the world with their on premise and cloud infrastructure with Team and personally responsible with 30+.  • Architect and deploy mass network, cloud, and server infrastructure.  • Work within the Microsoft Cloud, including everything within the Microsoft 365 umbrella, Azure, Exchange, Sharepoint, MDM, etc.  • Regularly perform migrations from various mail sources to Exchange Online and Microsoft 365.  • Design, deploy and maintain Microsoft on premise infrastructure, including Hyper-V clusters, VMs, Active  Directory, Exchange 07-19, etc.  • Design and management of VMware and VCenter clusters.  • Administer Linux and NIS environments for engineering teams.  • Use deep knowledge of network architecture, TCP/IP, layer 3 networking, PAN, Sonicwall, Cisco, and Fortinet firewalls to deploy and maintain muti-site layer 3 networks. Systems Engineer USWired July 2016 to April 2018 • Supported 50+ companies around the world with their on premise infrastructure.  • Completed desktop support tickets in all layers; network, application, OS, and Hardware.  • Worked with team to resolve their own tickets and set myself as a point of escalation for any issue.  • Regular on-premise scheduled visits as a way to to always show a friendly competent face to USWired's  best customers. Co-Founder Peppermint Cloudz July 2015 to May 2016 Co-Founded an e-juice company with my brother in an effort to raise money for my step father who was  battling lung cancer from many years of smoking. Electronic cigarettes were a major factor in saving his  life and our efforts to raise awareness were a loud voice in what was at the time a fledgling industry.  • Managed day to day finance and technical operations. I designed, implemented and maintained a complex web of business automation for B2C and B2B orders. My automation engine was powerful  enough to sustain $250k worth of orders with only the two of us as working employees. Senior Systems Administrator Dynamic Integrated Solutions June 2014 to July 2015 • Systems Admin for 250+ Employees.  • Managed a team of 4 engineers.  • Daily tasks included On boarding/Off boarding, Active Directory, Network Architecture, VMware, Data  Analysis, VOIP, VPN, Microsoft Windows Server, Exchange Server, TCP/IP.    • Acted as the point of contact between management of all departments and CTO to manage upkeep of and design solutions as necessary. I was in charge of upkeep for all network infrastructure and managed  projects handed down to me from the chief officers with my team.  • Built hard iron infrastructure to house roughly 100 virtualized Windows sessions at a time, through nComputing thin clients, distributed amongst various departments and offices in the building. Each  department had their own VM, with unique permissions, GPOs, and applications. The building had 2  Active Directories, 2 DHCP/DNS Servers, and 2 Exchange Servers.  • Managed VOIP phones through a Cisco UC 560 at both offices.  • Designed air-gapped offices to reduce external attack surface. Co-Founder and Tech Lead Zeus Digital Solutions November 2009 to June 2014 ZDS is a high tech repair company helping many fortune 1000 companies with out of house, in house IT.  It provides business services, residential services, cabling, desktop support, and a friendly, helpful IT staff  based out of Santa Clara, California. I co-founded ZDS in college with a close friend of mine where we  worked hard to expand our roster of clients to over 50, after which we sold the company to a competing  firm in 2014. I managed a team of over a dozen contractors. Some of our most memorable clients  below.  • Silicon Turnkey Solutions  • Pandesa Corporation  • SunMan Engineering  • Sharevault  • El-Observador Newspaper Education Associate Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Itil, Exchange, Network Administration, Strategic Planning, Customer Service, Vmware, Vendor Management, VoIP, IT Management Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nrwtu5z5teruplts Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/netm4dncqgzntma6 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.