Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer Peyton, CO Work Experience Systems Engineer aVenture Technologies - New Orleans, LA February 2018 to October 2018 Systems Administrator Kratos Defense and Security Solutions - Colorado Springs, CO 2017 to 2018 Primary administrator and engineer for SCCM and HBSS design and implementation. Implemented SCCM and HBSS into a classified environment utilizing both virtualized and physical servers. Designed, implemented and maintained information and network systems for multiple satellite control systems for government customers. Was customer point of contact for current and future project design and implementation. Coordinated with network and physical security to ensure DISA STIG compliance in a classified environment. Site Lead/ Systems Administrator/ Systems Analyst United States Air Force Academy - United States Air Force Academy, CO 2016 to 2017 Maintained both Physical and virtual servers including but not limited to file servers, web servers, HBSS servers, and domain critical servers. (Domain controllers, DHCP, DNS). Upgraded software and hardware on physical and virtual servers. Maintained and troubleshooted network switches and firewalls. Managed on site IT team and provides professional proposals and feedback for future projects. C20IX/NOVA/CUDIXS Operator NCTAMS PAC - Wahiaw?, HI 2014 to 2016 Managed and Maintained RF Communication circuits, UNIX and Windows based servers and end client workstations for over 500 US and Foreign military components worldwide. Worked in a small team driven environment to maintain services and quickly respond to casualties. Responsible for over 500 million dollars' worth of equipment and software. Gave support in a regional capacity for 15,000 customers for messaging and RF communications utilizing trouble tickets. SPAWAR 2012 to 2016 to provide distance support and solutions to Navy programs. Provides advanced administration of windows server 2008r2, 2012, and 2016 as well as active directory components. Utilized patch management for maintaining servers in a virtual environment while maintaining high uptime. Provides on-call support during weekends and off schedule hours. Utilizes Microsoft and other third party support to provide verbose troubleshooting. Utilizes remedy ticketing system to track and maintain incidents for quick and effective troubleshooting and resolution. Systems Administrator USS Nicholas 2010 to 2014 Installed, Implemented, Managed and Maintained Windows based NIPRNet and SIPRNet systems for 200 LAN users. Maintained inventory of all network equipment worth 12 million dollars. Managed systems utilizing multiple UNIX distributions including Redhat and Solaris. Primary Administrator of 6 IP based systems. Managed and directed 6 subordinates to maintain the network and complete help desk trouble calls. Successfully led a team of 6 people through a rigorous shipboard maintenance period for 4 months, which included extensive equipment maintenance and overhaul of all ships communication and networking systems. Education Sand Creek High School 2009 Skills Unix, Active directory, Cisco, Dns, Exchange, AWS, Powershell, System Administrator, SCCM, Vmware, Linux Additional Information ? 6 Years serving as an Information Systems Technician in the United States Navy  ? Comptia A+ ce  ? Comptia Security+ ce  ? IAT Level 2 Systems Administrator  ? Secret Clearance    Skills    ? Specialized in Microsoft active directory management  ? Specialized in Microsoft Server 2003, 2008 and 2012 installation and management  ? Specialized in PC and network security Protocols  ? Specialized in System Center Configuration Manager implementation and management  ? Specialized in VMware, Vsphere, Vcenter, ESXI  ? Specialized in HBSS implementation and management  ? Specialized Exchange server implementation and management  ? Advanced in CAT5/6 and Fiber Implementation and installation  ? Advanced CISCO Router management  ? Advanced Routing Protocols  ? Advanced Networking  ? Advanced in VTC management and troubleshooting  ? Experienced in UNIX Fundamentals  ? Experienced in Redhat installation and management  ? Experienced in VoIP solutions and implementation  ? DNS server management  ? Trouble Ticket management and escalation