Systems Administrator/ Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Administrator/ System Engineer Tucson, AZ • Over 9 years of professional IT experience, with more than 7 years of hands on experience as a Systems Administrator, UNIX/LINUX (RHEL, CENTOS, SOLARIS) + WINDOW + VMWARE and DevOps.  • I am a great team player with a fast learning curve and the ability to work independently in a self-directed manner and collaboratively as a team member with strong analytic abilities, organizational skills, problem-solving skills and attention to details. I can work successfully with first-rate time management skills including the ability to effectively prioritize and execute tasks.  • I am a multiplatform Systems Administrator/Engineer with Strong leadership, project management skills, time management, and problem-solving skills. Ability to provide great IT Service Management, Change Management methodologies, create/update supporting documentation, excellent communication skills. Very excited and motivated to learn new technologies where speed and accuracy are necessary for mission critical databases, infrastructure and systems availability.  WINDOWS EXPERIENCE    • Build and Configure Windows NOS 7, 8, 10 both on VMware Esxi, Oracle Virtual Box, Hyper-V and onsite; Windows Servers 2008, 2012, 2016, assign Hostname, Static IP Addresses, Default Gateway, Domain Name System (DNS), DHCP, join them to a Domain and create users account and profiles.  • Active Directory: manage and configure Active Directory Administrative Centre, Users and Computers, Naming Contexts and Application Partitions, AD schema, searching Directory Information Tree. Building and deploying Domain Controllers with Server Manager, Using DCPromo on Earlier Versions of Windows and automating the DC Build Process via virtualization.  • Authentication and Security Protocols, Group Policy Primer and planning, Fine-Grained Password Policies and complexity.AD permissions and auditing, Backup, Recovery, and Maintenance Active Directory Lightweight Directory Services and Upgrade. Setup, configure, understands and troubleshoot networking; TCP/IP, TCP/UDP, ISO Model, IP Stack, Router/Switch, A records, AAAA records, PTR, Mx, CNAME, ARP, Local/Public Domains in a multiplatform LAN, MAN, and WAN.  • Windows Domain Access Management; User, Security and Package, Patch Management using SCCM ( System Center Configuration Manager), Automox.., Access Control List, Firewall and Remote Desktop Protocol.  • Rag New Windows Servers, Hardware and Infrastructure maintenance, assign and configure network ports, imaging, cabling and wiring. Set up new Printer/Copier/Scanners and update existing Drives. Map Network Drives, File and Print sharing,  • Experience in Microsoft Office 365. Create User accounts, Mail, Calendar, Excel, Word, Teams, Visio, Power Point Jira , Confluence, Freshdesk, ticketing System, Vision Helpdesk.  LINUX (RHEL 6, 7. CentOS 6,7. Suse 11.4) EXPERIENCE    • Build, Install, and configure RHEL 6/7, CentOS 6/7, Suse 11.4 Servers and OS on VMware Esxi , Oracle Virtual Box and onsite, assign Hostname, Static IP Addresses, Default Gateway, Domain Name System (DNS), DHCP, MAC Addresses, ports and protocols, join Domains, Network and create users account.  • Hands on experience using Essential file Management Tools to execute Linux Commands on different Shells. Edit Files with vim, vi; work with file system Hierarchy. Creating, Managing and working with Directories; relative/absolute pathnames, listing, coping, moving, and deleting Files and Directories. Creating Hard and symbolic Links; archiving and Compressing Files.  • Connecting to RHEL/CentOS 6 and 7 via Console or Terminal Logging In, accessing Remote Systems Using SSH, Telnet, and securely transferring Files between Systems. Booting, rebooting and shutting down systems on different run levels base on Change Management requests. Raids, Tuning Performance.  • User and Group Management: creating and managing different user account types (Root, Sudo, Normal Users ) and groups. Configuring LDAP Authentication, Passwords and Permissions. Managing File ownership, Basic Permissions and Access Control Lists.  • Managing Software Packages with yum, repository, installing and removing Software Packages. Managing Software Packages with rpm (Filename and Database). Scheduling Tasks using Cron, reading log files, inventorying and monitoring systems resources.  • Managing Partitions and File Systems, Swap. Creating and Managing LVM Logical Volumes, Physical Volumes and Volume Groups. Managing Kernel Modules, Checking Driver Availability for hardware Devices and Upgrading the Linux Kernel. Managing and Troubleshooting the GRUB boot Process.  • Storage management, Setting NAS (NetworkAttached Storage)/ SAN (Storage Attached Network and FreeNAS. Kickstart  • DevOps and Cloud Computing, Docker, Container and Kubernetes. Configure, Install and manage Ansible, Apache, Maria DB(MySql), Webmin, Veritas, Top, Spacewalk, Suse Manager, Nagios, Qualys, Samba, Splunk    UNIX (SOLARIS 10 AND 11) EXPERIENCE    • Build, Install, and configure Solaris 10 & 11 Servers and OS on VMware Esxi, Oracle Virtual Box and onsite, assign Hostname, Static IP Addresses, Default Gateway, Domain Name System (DNS), DHCP, MAC Addresses, ports and protocols, join Domains, Network and create users account  • Installing and upgrading Solaris 10 Software on an x86 Machine, Performing Package and Patch Management. System Boot and Shutdown Process on the different Run-Levels. Managing File Systems, Hard and Symbolic Links; managing Disks, partitions, mounting and unmounting File System.  • Performing User and Security Administration; managing User and Group Accounts, Monitoring System Access, Password and Login Management, performing and Controlling system security, Permissions, Ownership, and Group Membership, Special File Permissions (setuid, setgid, and Sticky Bits).  • Creating and Scheduling cron Job for automation, performing scheduled System Backups and restores.TCP/IP Networking, LAN, MAN, WAN, Configuring and Managing IP Network Interfaces. Managing Virtual File Systems, Virtual Memory, Swap Space. Managing Storage Volumes, RAID, SVM. Performing Advanced Installation, JumpStart, Solaris Zone and Network Bonding. Work Experience Systems Administrator/ Systems Engineer SinfoniaRx - Tucson, AZ September 2018 to Present • Providing effective and timely oversight, administration, monitoring, troubleshooting, and problem resolution for Develops and maintains critical systems; creates and supports servers and systems; Installs, configures, and updates network hardware and software including: servers, routers, firewalls, backup and monitoring utilities, network device configurations, and end user applications.  • Implements, configures and support network infrastructure systems including routers, switchers, and other network devices, Troubleshoots issues relating to security or access permissions, DHCP, DNS, Radius, and monitoring services.  • Runs vulnerability scans and remediates findings. Install and troubleshoot network cable infrastructure. Supports the maintenance of the LAN/WAN and servers; including the daily monitoring for system failures, performing daily data back-ups and network performance monitoring.  • Provides direct support to end-users and clients accessing the information systems by identifying and resolving hardware and software failures/issues or areas needing correction, Evaluates and prioritizes problems, situations, or issues presented; resolving the problem.  • Supports information systems operations by identifying hardware and software failure points and other areas needing enhancement; Responds to provide corrections and repairs for failures preventing end-user/client access to programs or systems; including after-hours service, such as; Performs problem analysis of server operations and hardware problems, developing resolutions of server, software, hardware problems. Performs setup and maintenance of infrastructure, domain controller, DNS servers, Implements new servers based on defined and established configurations. DHCP servers, and file servers.  • Reviews and implements server and desktop patches, upgrades, and version environments; Manages and documents patching, upgrades, and validation processing within the organization. Properly configures and deploys software to servers and desktop environments. Review and complete Active Directory and network access requests, managing and optimizing the Active Directory environment.  • Manages the consistency of configuration settings on servers and desktops through group policy implementation; Maintains all security and critical patches on all network systems; installing new and upgrading current software as needed to remain compliant; Performs vulnerability scans using scanning software and reports results for resolution.  • Supports, develops, documents, tests, and implements engineering solutions to the Windows server and desktop environments; Provides Tier 2 and 3 support to end-users, as well external/internal clients for troubleshooting and resolution of issues, problems, and service calls related to hardware.  • Software, network, file and print services, and Active Directory functionality. Provides training to end-users and internal clients of software, hardware, and peripherals operation, functionality, and usability. Identifies opportunities to improve processes and work collaboratively with team members on successful development and implementation.  • Performs server maintenance tasks, security audits, and completes system backups and recovery as scheduled. Ensures all critical data is backed up daily/weekly/monthly. Monitors and maintains optimal server, desktop, mobile, and peripheral connectivity and functionality within the organization.  • Demonstrates a comprehensive knowledge and advanced skills in working with enterprise computing and server/networking standards, requirements, operations, and management. Ensures high-service operability of network devices (switches, routers, wireless access points, handheld devices, etc.) including all interface configurations.  • Develops scripting solutions and automation skills for developing effective solutions for Enterprise specific operations and business demands. Prepare and distributes scheduled and ad hoc informational and summary reports on performance. Provides oversight and support for server issues at the hardware and operating systems layers. UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator Trinitech Consulting Inc - Beltsville, MD November 2013 to August 2018 Responsibility:  • Build, Install, configure brand new virtual and physical servers, test, deploy Solaris 10, RHEL 6, Centos 6.4 servers to the network: OS installation and configuration - standard and advanced (net installation and jumpstart, kick-start).  • Hardening, Patching (Solaris 10 Servers using 10-Recommended patches), and upgrades (release), on standalone servers (using single user mode), and on production servers (live upgrade)  • Writes basic bash shell scripts to automate processes using crontab; Installs packages and applications  • Configure Apache and MySQL on Solaris 10 for virtual and web hosting; building and hosting websites; configure web hosting company DNS settings: install and configure Samba for quick publishing using a third party web page maker.  • User and security managementSetup, configure and troubleshoot TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS; NFS, CIFS, and samba servers in a multiplatform LAN  • Shell scripting (bash) to schedule and automate processes including full and incremental backups using tar, cpio and ufs dump; migrate and enlarge file systems on Solaris 10.  • Managing swap configurations  • Perform multiplatform volume management using SVM, LVM, ZFS volume manager, and VERITAS volume manager; installed and configure a LAN wide NAS (Free NAS) used for creating LUNs and attaching to windows 2008 servers and to Solaris 10 servers using iSCSi  • Build, configure, secure and deploy Solaris 10 system (global)  • Build, Install, configure, secure, deploy and migrated Solaris 10 local zones (spare root or whole root zone)  • Troubleshoot Solaris 10 issues emanating from hardware and software related and configuration issues  • Virtualization (VMware Esxi 5, 5.5 and Oracle Virtual Box)  • Configure a samba server on a Solaris 10 and mapping to the windows 2008 server. Setup a domain, active directory, create group policies on a Windows 2008 server; install  • Responsible for data management using native Solaris utilities for archiving, compression backup and restore.  • Supporting system users and troubleshooting system issues. Document solutions for future reference.  • Installing and maintaining the operating system and related software products.  • Participating in root-cause analysis of recurring issues, system backup and security setup, Provide 24X7 Support in Production Testing and Development environments.  • Installed and configured databases on Unix/Linux platforms UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator Verizon INC - Baltimore, MD November 2012 to July 2013 Responsibility:  • Responsible for building windows 2008 servers, NOS, Unix Solaris 10 and 11, Linux Centos 6, 6.4, Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 6 and 7 on VMwares and physical servers.  • Assign hostnames, Default Gateway, DNS, Static IP addresses to Windows 2008 Servers as to introduce them to the network. Use the "dcpromo" tool to promote standard Windows Servers to domain controllers, configure DNS, Active Directories, create group policies and manage user accounts, set remote desktop access  • Install software and security suites on Windows 7, 8 and 10 NOS, and home systems, perform imaging, help end user with basic desktop related issues and hardware maintenance; create user accounts and profiles  • Troubleshoot and resolve OS, application, malware, adware, and spyware on various NOS. Use TCP/IP troubleshooting tools to troubleshoot and resolve network connectivity and DNS related issues in a LAN.  • Configure Windows NOS to enable resource sharing, Build and configure VMware host and guess Systems on Oracle Virtual Box as well as bridging the Guess VMware systems to communicate with other physical LAN Systems.  • Install and configure Unix/Linux Servers using essential and file management tools working with Text files; Deploy Software, provide end user support and quality assurance  • Access Servers and systems remotely using SSH, log in and switch users in multiuser targets.  • Archive, compress, unpack, and compress files using tar, star, gzip, zip, and bzip2. Create and edit text files, delete, copy and move files and directories. Create hard and soft links. List, set and change standard ugo/rwx permissions.  • Operate running systems, boot, reboot, and shutdown system normally. Boot systems into different targets manually, interrupt the boot process in order to gain access to a system.  • Identify CPU/memory intensive processes, adjust process priority with renice, and kill processes, locate and interpret system log files and journals. Monitor date traffic using tools such as tcpdump and snoop commands, display authentication logs and manage root terminal access  • Access virtual machine's console and terminal using putty, start, stop, and check virtual machine's status of network services.  • Configure systems to launch virtual machine at boot, network services to start automatically at boot; configure a system to use time services.  • Install, patch, and update software packages on Unix/Linux systems and network, a remote repository, or from the local file system.  • Update the kernel package appropriately to ensure a bootable system; modify the system boot loader.  • Create, delete, and modify local user accounts. Change passwords and adjust password aging for local user Accounts.  • Create, delete, and modify local groups and group memberships. Configure a system to use an existing authentication service for user and group information.  • Configure Firewall settings using firewall-config, firewall-cmd, and iptables; configure key-based authentication for SSH.  • Use shell scripting to automate system maintenance tasks; resolve rogue lines and root related problems. PC and network Tech, Maintenance specialist TRUSTTECH Institute of Technology Molyko, BUEA - CM October 2008 to May 2011 CAMEROON Oct 2008 - May 2011  (Summer Internships & Trainings)    Responsibility:  • PC and network Tech, Maintenance specialist Onsite Seminars and training conducted on Windows servers, OS, Hardware maintenance and network connectivity and business management.  • Conduct Onsite/Class room training on systems administration and new features on regular basis.  • Assistant Manager on youth programs, computer networking and cyber café day to day management, and Staff Mentoring. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Dschang 2011 Skills Active Directory, Linux, Linux Administrator, Red Hat, Redhat, System Administrator, SCCM, System Admin, Vmware