Enhanced Trusted Agent/ Client Services Enhanced Trusted Agent/ Client Services Enhanced Trusted Agent - The Centech Group Fayetteville, NC Work Experience Enhanced Trusted Agent/ Client Services The Centech Group - Fort Bragg, NC April 2019 to Present • Supervise, conduct operations in support of the USACAPOC (A) Service Desk, and analyze tailored reports, review and correlate audits.  • Conduct several meetings a week with higher ranking officers and project managers, conduct detailed reports with follow-ups of service given.  • Ensure all areas are covered as well as perform general administrative duties. Responsible for following defined policies & procedures.  • Applies diagnostic techniques to identify problems, investigate causes and recommend solutions to correct failures. Documents problems in the support solution database for diagnostics and solution implementation.  • Gathering and forwarding a requestor's registration information to the Registration Authority (RA)/Local  • Registration Authority (LRA).Issuance of ASCL smart cards, SIPR Tokens or DoD PKI certificates to the requestor within two weeks of receiving them from the Army RA office Requesting unlocks codes and unlocking ASCL smart cards as necessary.  • Assist subscribers in the downloading and installation of their certificates Reporting to the RA/LRA if a requestor departs from DoD service or has their rights to Army network access revoked or if the ASCL token or private key is compromised through loss or theft. PC Technician SOF MSE - Fort Bragg, NC April 2019 to May 2019 Fort Bragg, NC  April 2019 - May 2019    • Responsible for providing telephone, email, chat, online, social media and remote diagnostic technical support  • of desktops, portables, peripherals, printers, projectors, etc. and software custom or off the shelf software -  • industry or proprietary.  • Answers questions about installation, operation, configuration, customization, and usage of assigned products.  • Responsible for following defined policies & procedures.  • Applies diagnostic techniques to identify problems, investigate causes and recommend solutions to correct failures.  • Documents problems in the support solution database for diagnostics and solution implementation.  • Provides phone and in-person support to users in the areas of e-mail, directories. Signal Support Systems Specialist U.S. Army - Fort Bragg, NC April 2015 to April 2019 • Supervises, installs, deploys, maintains, troubleshoots, trains, and assists the General Purpose User.  • Programs of Record and Commercial off the Shelf communications equipment, as appropriate. COMSEC Manager US Army December 2015 to January 2019 • Provided technical support to all customers.  • Trained custodians for downtime of power failures.  • Monitored COSMEC inventory and tracked it regularly.  • Assisted and distributed electronic key materials. • Streamlined all processes for installers and technicians. System Administrator US Army April 2015 to January 2019 • Provide technical support for both hardware and software issues our users encounter  • Manage the configuration and operation of client-based computer operating systems  • Monitor the system daily and respond immediately to security or usability concerns  • Create and verify backups of data  • Respond to and resolve help desk requests  • Upgrade systems and processes as required for enhanced functionality and security issue resolution IT Help Desk Technician US Army April 2015 to January 2019 • Respond to requests for technical assistance in person, via phone, chat or email  • Diagnose and resolve technical hardware and software issues  • Research questions using available information resources  • Advise user on appropriate action  • Follow standard help desk procedures  • Log all help desk interactions  • Administer help desk software  • Follow up with customers and users to ensure complete resolution of issues  • Redirect problems to correct resource Education High school or equivalent Skills Sharepoint, Active directory, Helpdesk, Service desk, Windows 10, Microsoft office Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E4 Certifications/Licenses Security+ October 2017 to October 2020 ITIL V4 August 2019 to Present FIBER OPTIC CABLING November 2017 to November 2020