Sr. Linux System Administrator Sr. Linux <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Linux System Administrator - Covance Central Laboratory Indianapolis, IN • Over 7+ years of industrial experience as a Linux Administrator in system administration in Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Cent OS & Fedora and also Production Support of various applications in Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Ubuntu  • Seasoned DevOps Engineer with Experience in Systems Administration incorporating DevOps methodologies, Prioritizing Automation of CI/CD delivery, Configuration Management, Managing Infrastructure, Systems Operations, Release Engineering management  • Built & Facilitated Continuous Integration & Delivery(CI/CD) pipelines with various tools such as GIT, Jenkins, Ansible, Maven, Docker  • Strong knowledge & Experience with major Cloud service models such as PaaS, SaaS, IaaS  • Worked on Docker & Kubernetes to Orchestrate Container-Based Cloud and Microservices Applications  • Managed & Automated LAMP Stack & Application deployments using Ansible on Amazon EC2 instances  • Install & configured Ansible on Linux based systems to manage Infrastructure & configuration  • Experienced writing YAML Ansible Playbooks with modules/tasks against multiple hosts in inventory to enable Infrastructure Automation  • Experienced in container-based deployments with Docker, worked with Docker images, Docker Hub & registries also orchestrated deployments using Kubernetes  • Used Bamboo to enable CI workflow for managing Java Projects, Have Created Plans, Connected Source code repository, trigger builds & Run unit tests with ANT & Maven and get-back test reports  • Migrated source code from SVN to Distributed GIT repositories, Managed GIT repo by maintaining branches, tagging, Version control to assist DEV Teams  • Hands-On Experience in building Python & shell scripts for automating regular tasks & to facilitate continuous Integration  • Created shell scripts using conditionals REST API calls to create GIT branches & Automating Project & jobs creation in Bamboo  • Knowledge & Experience with AWS Cloud in Scaling Web Apps using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Cloud foundry, Cloud formation, Route 53, Dynamo DB & Security Groups  • Strong Overall experience with Linux based systems  • Extensive knowledge & working experience with Microservices & Service Oriented Architecture(SOA)  • Proficient in Fully automating CI/CD pipeline from GIT Source-code commits to trigger builds in Jenkins, perform unit testing & deployments in staging to prod environments  • Hands-on Configuring and deploying to applications servers like Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere and webservers like I-planet, Apache, Nginx etc.  • Experience in Automating Tests using Selenium Web Driver with Eclipse IDE performing functional testing & Bug Tracking tool management  • Experience in using Splunk, Nagios monitoring to measure System Performance & Application behavior with logging  • Experience working on Projects following Agile, Scrum, Waterfall methodologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Linux System Administrator Covance Central Laboratory - Indianapolis, IN January 2019 to Present • Setup, Troubleshoot and Configure Tomcat and Nginx servers.  • Importing Creating and setting mounts points and user-mount points.  • Define/setup network protocols, Network File Services (NFS), Samba, and Network Information Services (NIS) on Linux environments.  • Performed daily backup of systems while assisting with restoration of procedures.  • Troubleshooting and maintaining DNS Application.  • Installation and configuration of Nagios to manage remote machines and disk usage, CPU, and RAM metrics.  • Responsible for maintaining user accounts and basic service access permissions on infrastructure servers.  • Add, remove and resizing Logical volumes using LVM in Linux and implementing software RAID at installation time.  • Installation and configuration of the system-wide monitoring tool  • Install, upgrade and manage packages via RPM and YUM package management.  • Install and implement new patches to the Linux operating system software using RPM  • Provided on-call support by rotation 24/7.  • Reset password and unlock user account.  • Install and configure Jira ticketing and management servers and Confluence servers for company-wide projects  • Created and deleted user accounts enforce security and compliance rules to regarding passwords and access to computer systems.  • Keeping track of maintenance of the servers in hardware & software  • Respond to emergency calls relating to server performance, diagnosis of problems, repairing  • Install and configure Jira ticketing and management servers and Confluence servers for company-wide projects Sr.IT Analyst Support Uber Technology - Indianapolis, IN July 2016 to November 2018 • Provided excellent desktop support service while operating in a fast-paced environment with multiple interruptions.  • Provide internal and remote user support for 550 users through Remedy ticketing system.  • Implementing company policies, technical procedures, and standards for preserving the integrity, security of data, reports, and access.  • Assisting 150+ customers daily with troubleshooting issues encountered while using hardware or software, providing actionable tips to resolve problems.  • Maintain inventory and place orders for new equipment.  • Set up workstations and support end users.  • Installed, Deployed Red hat Enterprise Linux 6.x/7.x, CentOS and installation of packages and packages and patches for Red Hat Linux Servers,  • Assisted in administering VMware SRM to accommodate virtual machine replication.  • Performed vMotion and Storage vMotion of VMDK and VMF files to target landing zones.  • Performed p2v of standalone Windows 2008/2012 R2 machine to virtual instances using VM converter and Platespin.  • Leveraged Docker Engine to run Multiple Tomcat Instances as Containerized AppServers.  • Automated Weekly releases with ANT/Maven scripting for Compiling, Debugging and Placing Builds into Maven Repository.  • Worked on Integration and Production AWA environments.  • Configured SSL / TLS in every application, layer and configuration of mutual authentication, manually using puppet.    Federated Investors Warrendale, PA Linux Systems Administrator SAIC Fort Hood, TX - Indianapolis, IN August 2014 to June 2016 • Performed installation and configuration of CentOS/RHEL 5/6/7 operating systems.  • Installed host firewall iptables for RedHat Linux.  • Automated server building using Kickstart, system imager, PXE boot.  • In charge of Upgrading, installation, configuration and administration and monitoring on Linux servers.  • Excellent in patches and packages installation on Linux/Unix Environment  • Configure, build and deploy Virtual machines and templates.  • Hands on experience in configuring ESX, ESXi and vSphere4 with virtual center management.  • Installed/configured/maintained the Linux servers NIS, DNS, NFS, Sendmail, Apache, FTP.  • Setup and management of SFTP server for file transfer services.  • Configured volume groups and logical volumes, extended logical volumes for file system growth needs using Logical Volume Manager (LVM) commands.  • Installation of local yum repository and package administration using yum and rpm. Installation of local yum repository and package administration using yum and rpm.  • Used Nagios to monitor CPU usage, inodes, memory, iSCSI disks, physical disk, file systems and network using the tool Nagios.  • Mounting & un-mounting the LUNs to the Red Hat Linux servers and troubleshooting the issues encountered.  • Performance tuning to obtain Peak activities from all Linux servers.  • Troubleshooting network connectivity and firewall issues.  • Update YUM repository and RedHat Package Manager (RPM).  • Setting up cron schedules for backups and monitoring processes.  • Configuration and administration of NIS, NFS & DNS environment • Create and maintain technical documentation for new installations and systems changes as required.  • Install and configure Jira ticketing and management servers and Confluence servers for company-wide projects.  • Installing and configuring Apache Tomcat and supporting it on Linux production servers. System Administrator Brooks Life Science - Indianapolis, IN April 2012 to July 2014 • Administered Linux servers Linux (RHEL 6/7), for several functions including managing Apache/Tomcat server, mail server, and firewalls in both development and production environments.  • Install and configure hardware and Linux OS on over 600 servers in the network per specifications of clients.  • Experience in installation and configuration of various services - DNS, DHCP, NFS, and Send mail, Apache Web Server, Samba, LDAP, SSH, HTTP, RPM package management.  • Maintaining and Troubleshooting of FTP Server, Samba Server of the client.  • Storage Management, Created VGs, LVs, and disk mirroring, Managed LVM and file systems, Paging space management, restore and availability, Monitoring System and Network Performance.  • Perform run level checks in store on a weekly basis to ensure high availability of database and applications.  • Created and assigned file attributes & permissions, defined network protocols and ensuring TCP/IP and router connectivity  • Extensively worked on administering NIS, NFS, DNS, DHCP, Mail servers & Samba server.  • Troubleshooting user logins issues using various remote login utilities and engaged users in constructive login best practice including inculcating strong password approaches.  • Provide thorough Documentation of the various issues handled along with the resolution provided  • Install and configure Jira ticketing and management servers and Confluence servers for company-wide projects  • Monitor systems performance on all servers (Virtual memory, Disk, and CPU utilization)  • •Installation and configuration of Nagios/OMD plugin to manage remote machines.  • Installed packages and patches for Red Hat Linux servers including tools such as RPM and YUM. inux System Administrator VINDS Inc - Landover, MD June 2011 to March 2012 • Configure Apache Web Server and vhosts on RHEL servers.  • Setup, Configure and installed Multiple Instances using Kickstart Automation Server.  • Maintains data files and Monitor system configuration to ensure data integrity on Red Hat Systems Configuration of local YUM repository for Enterprise Software Application Management.  • Create User accounts and Delete when necessary on RHEL servers.  • Configure Network File System on RHEL servers.  • Experience in database creation and backup.  • Configure networking and hostname resolution statically or dynamically.  • Installed, configured and managed software on RHEL servers.  • Hardening systems with Security Enhanced Linux and other security measures.  • Monitoring system infrastructure and network with Nagios Managing system processes and installed services on RHEL servers.  • Utilized kick-Start and ignite for systems builds and recovery on RHEL servers.  • Experience with network configurations including knowledge of switches and firewalls.  • Deploying the RedHat Linux production servers using VMware vSphere client.  • Creating the VM shell and pushing the operating system using the kickstart server.  • Creation of Kickstart images for the different version of RedHat Linux Operating system like 5.x & 6.x  • HP blade center C7000 hardware management using ILO console.  • Creation Link aggregation (LACP) with VLAN tunneling using virtual connect (VC).  • Share upling set using LACP & VLAN tagging.  • As a member of the team. Monitored the VERITS Cluster Server in SAN Environment.  • Installation of node VERITAS clusters on Cisco USC Hardware, Configuring of Multipathing, l/O fencing, Service groups, Network bonding and heartbeat of cluster.  • Troubleshooting on incidents ticket related to Veritas cluster.  • Performance Tuning and Management for Linux/AIX server and working with the application / database team to resolve issues.  • Tuning the Kernel parameters for the better performance of applications like Oracle, WebLogic etc.  • Installing, Configuring, Stop and start scripts as Service for various 3rd party application Education Bachelor's Additional Information A dedicated Linux Systems Administrator with five years of experience building, configuring, monitoring, upgrading and maintaining systems. Extensive expertise, deploying and supporting VMware virtualization including building virtual machines, managing physical server's resources. Experience with users and groups administration, granting privileges and permissions. Possess the ability to multi-task, work with strict deadlines and eager to take on new challenges.  Skills/Applications    CentOS, OEL, Red Hat, Logical Volume Manager and partitioning, network optimization and troubleshooting, VMware, Jira, Confluence, DenyHosts, Tripwire, SSH, Putty, Microsoft Office, Lynis, GIT, NIS, WinSCP, Nginx, FTP, OMD/Nagios, Icinga, Check_MK, Thruk, Fail2Ban, AWS EC2 Deployment, Samba, Apache, DNS, ESXi, NFS, vSphere, PhpMyAdmin, Tomcat, Kickstart, Jenkins, Apache Visual Host, Visual IP and IP bonding, Nessus.