System administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Aurora, OH Motivated personable professional with almost 10 years' Technological experience in various disciplines. I am currently pursuing my Microsoft, and Vmware certifications to expand overall knowledge of technologies. Accustomed to handling pressure situations be as it may deadlines, system failures, etc. I have demonstrated a history of proven results in all aspects of my life and work. I am extremely driven, and excited for new possibilities., Work Experience System administrator Insight2profit - Mayfield Heights, OH June 2018 to April 2019 Setup Microsoft Deployment process to properly image computers in a more efficient manner  Managed Azure AD and Office 365 utilizing PowerShell as well as creating Single Sign On for the applications  Managed two domains and over 30 servers to ensure that there was minimal downtime when issues would arise.   Performed deskside support for 125 users in an efficient and timely manner.    Was responsible for maintaining Office 365 tenant e.g. Licensing, mailbox creation, distribution groups, Skype for Business, as well as the Outlook clients, and mobile devices. System administrator Cleveland clinic / IBM - Beachwood, OH June 2017 to March 2018 Contract)  • Was the escalation for my team when advanced issues needed to be resolved.  • Responsible for managing all onsite Layer 2&3 HP switches, as well all IDF closets.  • Supported over 2,000 onsite, and remote users, as well as hundreds of different enterprise applications.  • Was IT liaison for Epic reset projects as well as department setups which included procurement, location, and deployment of IT resources to ensure every project was finished on time. Systems Engineer Vantage One Software July 2016 to May 2017 • Performed testing and applying of patches to Microsoft servers so they were always up to date, and secure.  • Deployed and maintained companies 2010, and 2013 Exchange servers including mailboxes, distribution groups, mail flow, DNS, OWA, message filtering  • Had to fix VMware replication issues by rewriting configuration files, used scripts to automate system backups.  • Configured, installed, and managed over 60 physical, and virtual servers  • Supported multiple server platforms including Exchange, DNS, Terminal servers, and Domain controllers. Computer Operator Marathon Petroleum Inc April 2016 to July 2016 Contract)  • Imaged & Cloned PCs and Laptops using SCCM and proprietary software.  • Deployed about a thousand desktops, and laptops across entire refinery System Administrator Terex MHPS Corp June 2015 to April 2016 Contract)  • Exchange 2013 mailbox creation, distribution groups, mailbox policy, and permissions  • Supported over 3,000 users across 23 locations through deskside, and remote methods.  • Worked with multiple technologies, so that field engineers would have minimal downtime while on customer sites.  • Maintained Active directory, so that users, and machines always had the proper permissions to access information on the domain. Technical Support Specialist Future Pos Inc July 2013 to June 2015 • Designed, programmed, and installed point of sale systems for 75 mid to large restaurants.  • Was part of Windows XP end of life upgrade that consisted of either replacing or updating thousands of point of sale machines.  • Trained restaurants on how to use point of sale hardware, and software. Technical Support Specialist ERC Parts Inc April 2010 to June 2013 • Installed Point of Sale equipment for large scale franchises including Wendy's  • Performed structured cabling, as well as setting up, and managing local networks  • Supported over 2,000 customers either with onsite, or remote troubleshooting of issues. Education Sociology Kent State University - Kent, OH 1999 to 2002 Skills Active directory (8 years), Cisco (8 years), Exchange (8 years), Firewalls (8 years), Networking (8 years), Virtualization (5 years), Onbase (2 years), Vmware (5 years), Epic (2 years), Android, Ios, Hyper-v, Microsoft office, Windows 7 (10+ years) Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Operating Systems / Servers  • Built, configured, and maintained Terminal servers, Domain controllers, and Exchange Servers 2010, 2013, 2016 Windows Server editions 2008, 2012, and 2016.  • Configuring Active Directory, Exchange, Office 365, PowerShell, Azure AD, Windows 7, 10, Hyper-V clusters  Software / Networking  • Virtualization with VMware vSphere, ESXi, vSphere Server, Microsoft Hyper-V, Veeam,  • MDT, Epic, Hyland OnBase, Microsoft Office products, Android, IOS, Manage Engine, Service Now, Heat  • Cisco, Dell, and HP switches, Dell SonicWALL, and, FortiGate Firewalls, Routers, Vlans, Patch management