Maternity Leave Maternity Leave Information Technology McAlester, OK 7+ years of IT experience Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Maternity Leave Freelance Tech - McAlester, OK June 2016 to Present I was let go because I hadn't been with the company long enough to acquire the amount of time needed after having my son.     I have been doing local freelance IT support. Desktop support, router setup or maintenance, phone support, etc. Computer Systems Engineer ECS Federal LLC - Norman, OK May 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities  Managing Users, Groups, Roles and Access Permissions.  • Managing Tasks, Events and Alarms Configuration, troubleshooting, supporting, creating virtual servers, and managing the virtual environment.  • Project lead for achieving and maintaining PCI compliance.  • Project lead for building Hertz SCCM environment  • Work independently to troubleshoot, perform root cause analysis, identify and isolate technical issues.  • VMware administrator installing and setting up virtual servers.  • Design, Implementation, Testing and Deployment of VMware Infrastructure  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of VMware, VSphere4, and ESXi Server, VMware View.  • VMware vSphere client, Virtual vCenter Server  • Virtual Networking(Virtual Switches, VM Kernel Ports)  • Creation, Management and Configuration of Virtual Machines, Clones and Templates.  • Customization of guest operating systems on Virtual Machines.  • Clustering, VMotion, and Storage VMotion  • Created and maintained Active Directory groups to target specific user communities for applications.  • Proficient with Active Directory  • Setup, configuration, and problem diagnostics of server hardware.  • Setup configuration, repair, and maintained local network.  • Maintained Master and Slave Domain Controllers  • MS Exchange Server 2013 PC Support Technician Insight Global Inc - Oklahoma City, OK October 2015 to October 2015 PC Refresh project. Loading images, and software configurations.. PC setup at miscellaneous Wal-Mart locations. Transferring data from old PC to new; installing additional software included in standard image, configuring it, setting up new PCs, replacing hard drives, and pulling old hard drives; Asset management and documenting everything such as serial number from HDD, Computers, DVRs, etc. PC Support Contractor Office of Management and Enterprise Services - Oklahoma City, OK July 2015 to August 2015 PC Refresh project. Imaging PC''s, PC setup at customer location, transferring user data from old PC to new; installing additional software not included in standard image; adding to OMES domain and ensuring user functionality. Troubleshooting and resolving customer issues and/or fulfilling customer service requests reported to the Service Desk. Systems Administrator Hertz Technology Center - Warr Acres, OK October 2012 to January 2014 Handling technical troubleshooting within a corporate environment virtual server management, backup server management, and data recoveries. Managed system and hardware issues for Hertz Rent-A-Car globally. Maintained and disseminated trouble ticket records using Maximo for the Infrastructure Services department. Engaged and tracked Priority 1 issues, with responsibility for the timely documentation, escalation (if appropriate), and resolution of helpdesk tickets using the Maximo database system.  • Managing Users, Groups, Roles and Access Permissions.  • Managing Tasks, Events and Alarms Configuration, troubleshooting, supporting, creating virtual servers, and managing the virtual environment.  • Project lead for achieving and maintaining PCI compliance.  • Project lead for building Hertz SCCM environment  • Work independently to troubleshoot, perform root cause analysis, identify and isolate technical issues.  • VMware administrator installing and setting up virtual servers.  • Design, Implementation, Testing and Deployment of VMware Infrastructure  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of VMware, VSphere4, and ESXi Server, VMware View.  • VMware vSphere client, Virtual vCenter Server  • Virtual Networking(Virtual Switches, VM Kernel Ports)  • Creation, Management and Configuration of Virtual Machines, Clones and Templates.  • Customization of guest operating systems on Virtual Machines.  • Clustering, VMotion, and Storage Vmotion  • Created and maintained Active Directory groups to target specific user communities for applications.  • Proficient with Active Directory  • Setup, configuration, and problem diagnostics of server hardware.  • Setup configuration, repair, and maintained local network.  • Directed expansion and maintenance of network supporting many web hosting clients.  • Configuring, Managing and Maintaining Networking Equipment  • Installed and configured DHCP Client/Server  • Provided routine advice and guidance to individual department representatives, employees, and others on software applications, IT group policies, procedures and guidelines  • Environment supported both production and development environments containing hundreds of servers running SQL, IIS, and many other misc. applications.  • Access the VCenter Protect (Formerly known as Shavlik) Administration Console. For patch deployment.  • Windows Software Update Services (WSUS) patch management.  • Performed key technical role that resulted in streamlined communications and data organization practices that eased the administrative workload of all end users. IT Specialist Circor Energy - Oklahoma City, OK February 2012 to August 2012 • Served as a local liaison for other support groups and operating units in the resolution of day-to-day computer applications, hardware, software, and miscellaneous operational problems.  Circor Energy - Oklahoma City, OK  IT Support Specialist (02/09/12-08/20/12) Handling technical troubleshooting within a corporate environment, including system crashes, slow-downs, applications support, virtual server management, backup server management, and data recoveries. Managed desktop support, hardware and software application issues for multiple Circor Energy locations.  Selected Contributions:  • Maintained and disseminated trouble ticket records using Track IT for the MIS Department. Engaged and tracked Priority 1 issues, with responsibility for the timely documentation, escalation (if appropriate), and resolution of helpdesk tickets using the Track IT database system.  • Troubleshooting hundreds of calls both on-site and remotely for the different businesses associated with the Circor Energy Group covering a wide range of issues, resulting in a high level of client satisfaction.  • Active directory, GPOs, Managing Users, Groups, Roles and Access Permissions.  • Created and maintained Active Directory groups to target specific user communities for applications.  • Setting up and monitoring, performance monitoring and capacity planning.  • Managing Tasks, Events and Alarms, Configuration, troubleshooting, supporting, creating virtual servers, and managing the virtual environment.  • VMware administrator installing and setting up virtual clients, servers, and desktops.  • Building department pools designed to support their specific applications and setting requirements.  • Design, Implementation, Testing and Deployment of VMware Infrastructure  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of VMware, VSphere4, and ESXi Server, VMware View.  • VMware vSphere client, Virtual vCenter Server  • Virtual Networking and Storage  • Creation, Management and Configuration of Virtual Machines, Clone and Templates.  • Customizing guest operating system on Virtual Machines.  • Created DRS and Custom roles for users and Administrators  • High availability, Clustering, VMotion, Storage Vmotion  • Snapshot manager and restoring a snapshots  • Setup, configuration, and problem diagnostics of server hardware.  • Setup configuration, repair, and maintained local network.  • Directed expansion and maintenance of network supporting many web hosting clients.  • Managed and maintained the Microsoft Exchange Server environment.  • Migrated and thoroughly documented the procedures to migrate from various environments to the latest version of Active Directory, Exchange, and Windows.  • Configuring, Managing and Maintaining Networking Equipment  • Provided routine advice and guidance to individual department representatives, employees, and others on software applications, IT group policies, procedures and guidelines  • Network, server, and backup and recovery support  • Installed and managed virtual desktop and pools within the VMware/VSphere environment.  • Environment supported both production and development environments containing hundreds of servers running SQL, IIS, Exchange, SharePoint, and QAD.  • Worked with all versions of Exchange and NetApp, Hyper-V, BlackBerry, iPhone, ActiveSync, SCOM and other enterprise technologies  • Analyze and troubleshoot on an advanced level, performance of SAN-backed VMware infrastructure to determine proper allocation of resources to a multi-department user population with widely varying needs.  • Access the WSUS Administration Console. Configure WSUS to Use a Proxy Server. Windows Software Update Services (WSUS) patch management.  • Performed key technical role that resulted in streamlined communications and data organization practices that eased the administrative workload of all end users. Systems Administrator National Oilwell Varco - Houston, TX June 2011 to December 2011 • Served as local liaison for other support groups and operating units in the resolution of day-to-day computer applications, hardware, software, and miscellaneous operational problems.  National Oilwell Varco - Houston, TX  Systems Administrator (06/12/11-12/22/11) Handling technical troubleshooting within a corporate environment, including system crashes, slow-downs, applications support, server and backup server management and data recoveries. Manage all desktop support, hardware and software application issues for multiple NOV branches.  Selected Contributions:  • Troubleshooting thousands of calls and local on-site issues for all NOV associated businesses in the Pittsburg county area as well as helping to support the Corporate IT Help Desk in a timely fashion covering a wide range of issues, resulting in a high level of client satisfaction.  • Maintained and disseminated trouble ticket records using Remedy for the IT Department. Engaged and tracked Priority 1 issues, with responsibility for the timely documentation, escalation (if appropriate), and resolution of helpdesk tickets.  • Configuration, troubleshooting, supporting, installing Servers.  • Disaster Recovery planning, design, implementation and testing.  • Created and maintained Active Directory groups to target specific user communities for applications.  • Proficient with Active Directory, DNS, GPO, Windows Server  • Create and maintain GPOs, Security groups, etc.  • Understanding of WAN, TCP/IP, DNS, WINS  • Setup configuration, repair, and maintained local network.  • Directed expansion and maintenance of network supporting many web hosting clients.  • Operational knowledge of Microsoft Active Directory in a complex setting  • Configuring, Managing and Maintaining Networking Equipment  • Installed and configured workstations for IP/IPX based LAN  • Installed and configured DHCP Client/Server  • Virus Protection and Eradication  • Maintenance of MS Exchange Environment  • Provided routine advice and guidance to individual department representatives, employees, and others on software applications, IT group policies, procedures and guidelines.  • Network, server, and backup and recovery support.  • Installed and managed Citrix  • Performed site analysis when needed.  • Configuring PC network properties, including LAN and RAS.  • Managing switches, supporting Cisco routers, and diagnosing DMARC issues  • Environment supported both production and development environments containing hundreds of servers running SQL, IIS, Exchange, SharePoint, SAP, Oracle, and PeopleSoft.  • Analyze and troubleshoot on an advanced level, performance of SAN-backed VMware infrastructure to determine proper allocation of resources to a multi-department user population with widely varying needs.  • Monitor the health of the each site and troubleshoot all error logs.  • SCCM installation, configuration, asset management, software delivery, security updates, and application tracking on Windows systems. Provided inventory for software and hardware. Report for asset Management and capturing images such as XP and Vista using a task sequence. Created custom asset inventory reports and dashboards for use in planning corporate hardware and software requirements. Customized data collection for corporate license audits. Converting SCCM from mixed mode to Native mode to provide certificate to laptop that are outside the intranet. All laptops would be able to acquire packages once a certificate is loaded to the operating system.  • Installed and maintained network availability and performance monitoring and notification system.  • Access the WSUS Administration Console. Configure WSUS to Use a Proxy Server. Windows Software Update Services (WSUS) patch management.  • Performed key technical role that resulted in streamlined communications and data organization practices that eased the administrative workload of all end users.  • Served as local liaison for other support groups and operating units in the resolution of day-to-day computer applications, hardware, software, and miscellaneous operational problems.  • Configure client computers to company standards  * Perform physical inventories  * Perform asset management task as required including the creation of ITRs as needed (e.g. asset tagging and assignment of assets to user, transfers of assets between users, etc.) Helpdesk Technician Dell Corporate Headquarters - Oklahoma City, OK 2009 to 2010 Handled technical troubleshooting within an enterprise environment, including system crashes, slow-downs and data recoveries. Engaged and tracked Priority 1 issues, with responsibility for the timely documentation, escalation (if appropriate), resolution and closure of trouble tickets various technical issues.  Selected Contributions:  • Troubleshooting thousands of trouble calls for Dell's technical support covering a wide range of issues, resulting in a high level of customer satisfaction.  • Maintained and disseminated trouble ticket records using Microsoft Access for the IT Department.  • Gained valuable experience in a fast paced customer support environment that serviced over 7000 diverse customers that required a high level of communication and organizational skills. Systems Admin.\Exec. Assistant HealthQuest Consulting, LLC - Eufaula, OK 2007 to 2010 Answer, transfer and direct incoming calls using a computerized database for information access. Perform inputting, updating, maintenance and accuracy checks on a computerized database of hospital employees and patients. Receive emergency calls, forward calls to appropriate departments, and ensure that callers reach appropriate people. Maintained a working knowledge of medical terminology exercised to record and interpret patients'. General desktop support, assisted web development, provided graphics work.  Selected Contributions:  • Identified and implemented technologies and methods of using existing technology to help users work more efficiently.  • Creating/revising macros and spreadsheets in Microsoft Office Suite 2007  • Responsible for research, acquisitions and configurations on network and server hardware systems.  • Orchestrated movement of customers from out-sourced hosting in-house systems.  • Developed and implemented complex data models and logical database designs on a Microsoft SQL platform that increased efficiency in Physician Candidate selection practices by Forty-Five percent  • Directed expansion and maintenance of network supporting many web hosting clients.  • Installed and maintained network availability and performance monitoring and notification system.  • Developed, revised and implemented policies, standards, procedures and guidelines necessary to effectively administer the multiple database environments.  • Performed key technical role that resulted in streamlined communications and data organization practices that eased the administrative workload of all end users.  • Provided routine advice and guidance to client department representatives, employees, and others on the application of admissions policies, procedures and documents.  • Serve as a liaison with other departments and operating units in the resolution of day-to-day administrative and operational problems.  • Review, verify, and assess applications and support documents in accordance with established guidelines to follow-up on missing or deficient information. Helpdesk Technician East Central University - Ada, OK 2007 to 2008 Handled technical troubleshooting within an enterprise environment, including system crashes, slow-downs and data recoveries. Engaged and tracked Priority 1 issues, with responsibility for the timely documentation, escalation (if appropriate), resolution and closure of trouble tickets.  Selected Contributions:  • Troubleshooting over 5000 trouble calls for students and faculty in a timely fashion covering a wide range of issues, resulting in a high level of customer satisfaction.  • Recorded and compiled concise daily status reports for the Director of the IT Departments review.  • Maintained and disseminated trouble ticket records on Microsoft Access for the IT Department.  • Gained valuable experience in a fast paced customer support environment that serviced over 7000 diverse customers that required a high level of communication and organizational skills. Education Bachelor's in Bachelors of Science in Business administration with a concentration in Management Information Systems EAST CENTRAL UNIVERSITY - Ada, OK August 2006 to May 2009 Skills Vmware (3 years), Virtualization (4 years), Servers, Desktop Support, Change Management, Accounting (Less than 1 year), Business Management (3 years), Help Desk, Active Directory, Tech Support, MAC, Service Desk, Redhat, System Administrator, System Admin, Linux Administrator, Linux, SCCM Additional Information Special Skills  • ERP Systems  • JD Edwards  • QAD  • SAP  • ManMan  • Active Directory  • Backup Server management  • Server Management  • Window 2008 RA2  • Windows 2003    • Windows 2012 R2  • Microsoft Exchange  • LAN/WAN  • Group Policy  • SCCM  • Asset Management  • Remedy  • VMware  • Citrix