Unix/Linux Administrator Unix/Linux <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Unix/Linux Administrator - Blue Cross Blue Shield Edison, NJ • Over 7+ years of specialized experience in UNIX Administration and Production Support of various systems on AIX 4.3/5.1/5.2/5.3/6.1, Linux (RedHat and SUSE) and Windows NT/2000/2003.  • Thorough understanding of fundamentals of AIX UNIX kernel and file system concepts and SOAP.  • Experience in Installing, upgrading and configuring HP-UX,RedHat Linux 3.x, 4.x, 5.x using Kickstart Servers, puppet, cfengine, and Interactive Installation centOS.  • Experienced in System Designing and implementation, Installation, Administration, of AIX 5.1/5.2/5.3 e Linux 6/5 servers.in a large scale.  • Strong experience with Oracle Solaris administration and virtualization.  • Experience installing and supporting Sun Solaris 9/10 servers, Linux and Apache.  • Experience in implementation of large scale Linux deployments, administering EMC SAN and Fiber Switches.  • Experience in Installing, upgrading and configuring SUN Solaris 2.6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 on Sun Servers using Jumpstart Servers, Flash Archives and Interactive Installation.  • Worked with Database administrators to tune kernel for Oracle installations.  • Encompassing knowledge of Software Development Cycle (SDLC) and quality control methodologies such as Waterfall, Agile & Scrum.  • Experience with X86 hardware, HP hardware and management software, HP-UX 8.x, 9.x, 10.x , 11.0, 11i v1-v3.  • Experience with develop/extend puppet modules for automating environment deployments and managing environment.  • Experience in installation, configuration, tuning, security, backup, recovery and upgrades of IBM AIX.  • Experience in Installation, configuration and administration of VMware, Clouding, Hyper etc.  • Experience in installation of VIO server Advanced POWER Virtualization on IBM P5 System. Assigned resources by making LPAR client of VIO server.  • Experience in Installation and configuration on IBM System P p690/p650, p5-570, p5-550,p5-55A and p6-570, RS-6000 Servers.  • Experienced in capacity planning discussions. Performed capacity analysis, monitored and controlled disk space usage on systems.  • Experience in installation and configuration of Virtual I/O Server (VIOS) 1.1,1.3,1.5.  • Experienced in AIX Migration Installation, Preservation Installation and Complete Overwrite Installation using CDROM and configuring NIM Server  • Proficiency in VMware Installation and monitoring Virtual environments with ESX 5.x servers, installing Linux Virtual Servers under Host Groups, working with Performance, VMWARE, Network, Capacity teams to allocate resources appropriately.  • Experience in installation of AIX in an LPAR environment pSeries.  • Knowledge of FDA policies, Title 21 CFR Part 11, 21 CFR Part 820, ISO, DCF, Six Sigma, and Capability Maturity Model (CMMI) and MMIS.  • Experience in BATCH,GFS and GPFS architecture design, installation, tuning and troubleshooting.  • Experienced in Administration Concepts such as Virtualization and logical partitioning ( LPAR) of CPU, RHEV, HMC usage, Workload Manager,Virtualization with Xen.  • Expertise in SMIT, LVM, Mirroring, Paging Space management, job scheduling, Performance monitoring, Error logging, Diagnostics, and Fine-tuning.  • Experience in security and auditing, server hardening, and intrusion detection.  • Configured HACMP 4.x/5.x to monitor, and HA concepts, Disaster recovery, detect and react to failure events, allowing the system to stay available during random, unexpected software problems and also configured to react to hundreds of system events.  • Implementation and Administration of DHCP, NFS, GPFS and NIS on AIX.  • Expert in setting up SSH, SCP, SFTP connectivity between UNIX hosts.  • Good understanding of error logging subsystem and Performance Monitoring tools like vmstat, iostat, netstat on AIX 5L.  • Familiar with IBM-Tivoli Storage Manager (ITSM) for backup automation with policies configuration for Web based databases, setup consisted of server and client backup with progressive backup methodology in Semantec-NetBackup backup and restore environment.  • Expert in configuring a TCP/IP network on AIX, IP Networking creating mount points for Server directories and mount these directories on AIX servers.  • Resolved many Application Startup problems, PATH problems, and Name conflicts, TCP/IP, LAN /WAN, Sys logging and Networking Problems.  • Fine dealing with Voice Solutions, tuning of Servers and configuring networks for optimum performance.  • Established traceability matrix using Rational Requisite Pro to trace completeness of requirements in different SDLC stages.  • Excellent in production readiness testing for availability of services/ applicationstroubleshooting and Maintaining AIX and Patching.  • Expertise in broad range of technologies, including process tools such as Microsoft Project, MS Access, MS Visio, MS PowerPoint, MS Word, MS excel, Microsoft office suite.  • Experience with working in Production, Development and testing environment.  • Team player with excellent communication and inter-personal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Unix/Linux Administrator Blue Cross Blue Shield - Rosemead, CA, US October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with 100+ IBM servers such as IBM RS/6000, p670, p5-570, p5-595 servers running AIX 4.3.3, 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3  • Setup and configured TCP/IP network on REDHAT LINUX and AIX.  • Worked with implementation team of high availability cluster on IBM RS/6000 platform (HACMP for AIX). And VERITAS Cluster.  • Creating LPARS and configuration of DLPAR scripts for load sharing.  • Installed Computer Operating Systems: HP-UX 8.x, 9.x, 10.x , 11.0, 11i v1-v3.  • Extensively worked and involved in capacity planning discussions.  • Administrated server consolidation program through use of and VMware Virtual Center  • Installed and configured network services such GFS, GPFS, NFS, NIS and DNS Server.  • Adding physical volumes, creation Volume groups, File systems, Storage allocation, cron jobs, maintenance levels upgrades and applied Fixes for AIX 5.x.  • Configured volume groups and logical volumes, extended logical volumes for file system growth needs using Logical Volume Manager (LVM) commands.  • Worked in the migration team for migration from AIX 4.3.3, 5.1 to 5.2 and 5.3.  • Configured backup/archive policies using IBM-Tivoli Storage Manager(ITSM).  • Expeience with Semantec-NetBackup backup and restore environment.  • Worked with SOAP processing model, SOAP extensibility model, SOAP underlying protocol binding, and SOAP message construct.  • Modified Korn and Bourne shell scripts in order to automate administration tasks like customizing user environment and performance monitoring.  • Performed routine checks on nodes by monitoring syslogs and errorlogs for system and hardware errors.  • Worked with internal and external java application developers with testing and deployment of applications to dev/test/prod environments.  • Performed capacity analysis, monitored and controlled disk space usage on systems.  • Performed data integrity and database migration tests by running SQL queries.  • Worked with develop/extend puppet modules for automating environment deployments and managing environment.  • Established traceability matrix using Rational Requisite Pro to trace completeness of requirements in different SDLC stages.  • Extensive working knowledge and experience in US Health Insurance of HIPAA HIPAA 4010-5010- MEDICAID (EDI X12-837, 270/271 and d835), Compliance issues, ICD9, ICD10 and Claims Adjudication process.  • Setup cron jobs schedules for various backup and monitoring tasks.xsupported with enterprise backups using Veritas Nebackup version 4.5, monitored the VERITAS Cluster Server 4.1 in SAN Environment.  • Extensively involved in data modeling, Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database  • Upgraded 4 boxes (32- and 64-bit) from SUSE 11.1 to 11.2 with no unresolvable issues  • Installed, configured and administered ZFS filesystem, Websphere Application Server 4.x/5.0  • Configured a TCP/IP network on AIX, IP Networking creating mount points for Server directories and mount these directories on AIX servers.  • Setup and configured network TCP/IP on REDHAT LINUX and AIX servers including RPC.  • Experienced in installation and configuration of HACMP, VMware.  • Administering Novell SUSE Linux super computer cluster and storage.  • Installation/Administration of TCP/IP, NIS/NIS+, NFS, DNS, NTP, Auto mounts, Send mail and Print servers as per the client's requirement.  • Logical Volume Management (LVM) of AIX.  • Experience installing and supporting Sun Solaris 9/10 servers, Installing, upgrading and configuring SUN Solaris 2.6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 on Sun Servers.  • GPFS installation, configuration and troubleshooting on AIX.  • Predefined and Customized Volume Group management on AIX.  • Disk Management on AIX using SMIT.  • Installation and Administration of Tivoli Directory Server.  • Disk Replacement Strategy on AIX.  • Performance Management & Tuning of AIX /UNIX Kernel.  • Managing cron jobs, batch processing and job scheduling.  • Software installation and maintenance.  • Software upgrades such as firmware upgrades, DB2/SQL Server fix packs, service packs or updates.  • Security, auditing, server hardening, and intrusion detection, Disaster Recovery, users and groups administration.  • Networking service, performance, and resource monitoring.  • Familiar with IBM Enterprise Storage Server (ESS).    Environment: Oracle Solaris 8/9/10, Red Hat Linux 4/5, X86 hardware, HP hardware, BMC Tools, NAGIOS, Veritas NetBackup, Korn Shell, Bash Scripting, Veritas Volume Manager, VMware, ESX 5.x, RHEV, clouding, GFS KVM, ZFS file system,GPFS ,web servers, LDAP directory, Active Directory , BEA Web logic servers,SAN Switches, Apache, Tomcat WebSphere, Weblogic application server, SOAP. VIOS, HMC, LVM, LPM, MPIO, VLAN, Logicalis, Inc - Cincinnati, OH, US April 2013 to September 2015 UNIX/AIX Systems sAdministrator    Responsibilities:  • Installation and administration of RHEL 4.0/5.0 and SUSE 10.x.  • Configured kickstart server and updating/applying patches to the servers using Redhat Satellite server.  • Remote system administration using tools like SSH, Telnet, and Rlogin.  • Extensively worked and involved in capacity planning discussions.  • Planning and implementing system upgrades including hardware, operating system and periodical patch upgrades.  • Installation, configuration and administration of VMware, Oracle Solaris Zones, Containers and Ldoms.  • Automation of jobs through crontab and autosys.  • Installed Computer Operating Systems: HP-UX 8.x, 9.x, 10.x , 11.0, 11i v1-v3.  • Installation of packages, patch management, volume managment on SUSE servers using YaST.  • Applied appropriate support packages/patches to maintain system integrity.  • Performed capacity analysis, monitored and controlled disk space usage on systems.  • Monitored system activities and fine tuned system parameters and configurations to optimize performance and ensure security of systems.  • Adding servers to domain and managing the groups and user in AD, installing and configuring send mail.  • Custom build of Windows 2003 and Windows 2008 servers which includes adding users, SAN, network configuration, installing application related packages, managing services.  • Responsible for production readiness ,maintenance of development tools and utilities and to maintain shell, Perl automation Scripts.  • Worked with project manager and auditing teams to implement PCI compliance.  • Build LPAR and DLPAR system and Installed AIX 5.2, 5.3 on LPAR using NIM, in a client server environments  • Software upgrades such as firmware upgrades, DB2/SQL Server fix packs, service packs or updates.  • Installation of GPFS and tuning an troubleshooting on AIX.  • Configured backup/archive policies using IBM-Tivoli Storage Manager(ITSM).  • Expeience with Semantec-NetBackup backup and restore environment.  • Installed and configured Virtual I/O Server V1.3.01 with fixpack8.1.  • Configured/Maintained Zones, LDOM, ZFS filesystem Sun Solaris 10 Servers.  • Administering Novell SUSE Linux super computer cluster and storage.  • Integrating Weblogic 10.x and Apache 2.x and deploying EAR, WAR files in Weblogic Application servers.  • Management and monitoring of various services using Service Management Facility and Service Administration.  • Designing Firewall rules for new servers to enable communication with application, Oracle 10g servers.  • Working on Volume management, Disk Management, software RAID solutions using VERITAS Volume manager & Solaris Volume Manager. File system Tuning and growing using VERITAS File System (VxFS), coordinated with SAN Team for storage allocation and Disk Dynamic Multi path.  • Fine dealing with Voice Solutions, tuning of Servers and configuring networks for optimum performance.  • Performed capacity analysis, monitored and controlled disk space usage on systems.  • Experience installing and supporting Sun Solaris 9/10 servers.  • Performed data integrity and database migration tests by running SQL queries.  • Organized various meetings with teams as mentioned above for tracking their requirements as inputs to get this done and designed the plan/steps involved and took user approvals.  • Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, NIS, NFS, DNS, SNMP agents, DHCP and Proxy.  • Configured a TCP/IP network on AIX, IP Networking creating mount points for Server directories and mount these directories on AIX servers.  • Installation, maintenance and administration of Oracle and Db2 Server on Sun Servers.  • Set up user and group login ID's, printing parameters, network configuration, password, resolving permissions issues, user and group quota.  • As a member of the team, monitored the VERITAS Cluster Server 4.1 in SAN Environment.  • Creating and maintaining user accounts, profiles, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring.  • Created new groups and tested first in development, QA Boxes and then implemented the same in production Boxes.  Environment: Solaris 8,9,10, Red Hat Linux AS/EL 4.0, X86 hardware, HP hardware, GPFS, AIX 5.2, 5.3, Sun E10k, E25K, E4500, SunFire V440/880, DMX 3 & DMX4, Siteminder, SonicMQ 7.0, VxFS 4.1, VxVM 4.1, SVM. VIOS, HMC, LVM, LPM, MPIO, VLAN Unix/Aix/Linux Systems Administrator Southern California Edison, Rhode Island - Edison, California, US January 2010 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Installation, Configuration Management, Maintenance and Systems Development of AIX Systems.  • Installation, Administration and troubleshooting of AIX 5.3/5.2 running on IBM pSeries 570, 590, 595 and Standalone RS6000 Servers.  • Extensively worked and involved in capacity planning discussions.  • Used NMON tool for presenting all the important performance tuning information on one screen and dynamically updating it.  • Installed and Configured IBM WebSphere Application Server 7.0.X on AIX 5.3 and windows servers.  • Responsible for the operation, maintenance and integrity of a distributed, networked AIX based environment.  • Configured and supported Logical Partitions/Micro Partitions (LPAR/DLPAR), via HMC (Hardware Management Console).  • Installation configuration and testing of VIO Server with AIX 5.3 on client LPAR's on 550 and 570 models.  • Assembled and deployed EAR, JAR & WAR files on Websphere Application Server and did performance monitoring.  • Assigned Data Collection Levels for the started and stopped resources such as JVM, EJB's, WLM, and Deployment Manager.  • Installed, configured, administered and supported Web Sphere Application Server 7.0/6.0/5.0.  • Maintenance of the WebSphere Application Servers on different UNIX (AIX and SOLARIS) and LINUX platforms and setting up the development and testing and staging environment for the ongoing application development.  • Debugging of the application problems in deployment time, runtime and in load test.  • Installed and maintained Energy IP, NMS, ORS applications on AIX 5.3 (Smart Connect Project).  • Coordinated with Tivoli Access Manager and Tivoli Identity Manager team (IDM) and implemented Single Sign On MDMS application.  • Provided support to 1600+ Aix servers.  • Installed VIO server Advanced POWER Virtualization on IBM P5 System. Assigned resources by making LPAR client of VIO server.  • Lead from the front in implementations including preparing implementation and back-out plans, organizing application owner meetings, educating them about the downtimes and implementation plans.  • Responsible for NIM installation, setting up NIM servers, clients, define the resources, Alternate Disk Migration with NIM.  • Installed AIX 5.3 on each client LPAR (VIOC) on the disks which were virtually assigned to Client LPARs.  • Upgraded server memory from 24GB to 48GB and allocated to all the LPARS as per client requirement.  • Worked with HDS, EMC and IBM SAN Storage.  • Responsible for testing application and fixing bugs in Linux VMware, including setting up/installing the backend Debian and SUSE Linux servers and performing the configuration.  • Advised on best practices and spearheaded an upgrade project from older linux distributions to CentOS/RHEL 5.  • Administered the UNIX System for clustered AIX Servers running HACMP and dynamic LPARs with fiber attached SAN storage. And VERITAS Cluster.  • Responsible for setting up the development, system test, performance test and pre-production environments for the ongoing application development.  • Worked on troubleshooting Java applications using logs, traces.  • Administering Novell SuSE Linux super computer cluster and storage.  • Installed fixpacks and interfixes by configuring properties file and running update Silent wizard.  • Performance tuning by configuring JVM arguments, JDBC connection pooling & caching.  • Performance tuning by pointing the applications to the different available servers.  • Coordinated with Oracle DBA's for performance tuning of DB/Sys.  • Coordinated with Oracle DBA for problem resolution and recommendations.  • Worked closely with DBAs to install raid, disk areas for Oracle database instance installations, created Bourne shell database startup and shutdown scripts for UNIX servers. Wrote shell scripts for automated installations, to extract logs.  Environment: AIX, VIO, LPAR, Solaris, Linux, Windows 2000, Oracle 10G, TSM, IBM HTTP Server, IBM BladeCenter, Apache Web Server, WebSphere Application Server, Korn Script, SAN ESS Shark storage, NMON, Siebel. Education Bachelors Of Technology in Technology Stanford University Skills AIX (6 years), Apache (6 years), Linux (6 years), Oracle (6 years), SAN (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operation Systems  IBM AIX (v4.2, 4.3, v5.2, v5.3, v6.1), HP-UX (v10,v11.x), Redhat Linux(v6.2,7.2,Enterprise Linux),Windows 2000/2003 server, Windows 95,98/NT/ME/XP,    Hardware IBM p520, p550, p560, p570, p575, IBM P670, IBM, P650, IBM RS/6000 F50, JS20 IBM Blade server, HMC  Application Server and Technologies  NIM, Apache, HACMP clustering, DNS,GPFS, NIS, NFS, Websphere Application Server 6.x/5.x, Websphere Portal server, Windows 2000/2003 Active Directory, Microsoft IIS Server4/5, SSL, Distribution Server.    Databases/scripting MSSQL 2000, DB2, Oracle, shell scripting  Storage Technologies Networking Technologies AIX Logical Volume Manager, IBM SAN, EMC powerpath, Cisco Router, Cisco Catalyst Switchl  Backup/Monitoring Tools TSM v5.3, v5.4, cpio, tar, mksysb, SMIT, WSM, SAR, topas, tcpdump, Windows NTBackup/restore