Linux Systems Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux System Administrator New York, NY A proficient Systems Administrator with a variety of skills relevant to today's changing phase of System administration. Working closely with an Engineering and Devops team exposed me to a wide range of tools and skills which has been very beneficial in my career thus far. Able to work both independently and on a team. Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator July 2014 to Present Building of both Virtual and Physical servers in 3 different environments  ? Troubleshooting various issues following a ticketing system submitted by customers  ? Hardening of servers  ? Building EC2 instances, configuring security groups, taking snapshots and backups in AWS  ? Using various monitoring tools to monitor the environment and troubleshoot when there are alerts  ? Creating user accounts and maintenance of the user environment to make sure accounts are removed and privileges are set in accordance with employee status  ? Updating various applications and servers to make sure it conforms with our security procedure  ? Installing and configuring various services such as NFS, Apache, NTP, FTP etc.  ? Ability to understand client requirement and provide the best solution.  ? Installed Red Hat Linux using Kick Start and applying security policies hardening the server based on the company policies.  ? Automation of tasks using Bash Scripting, Ansible and setting up jobs using Cron  ? Building and hosting of virtual servers using VMware (esxi 6.0)  ? Utilizing Jira and Confluence for Ticketing and Documentation and also cleaning up both applications to make sure it conforms with company standard  ? Planning and making documentation of disaster recovery procedure and IT best practices and training people in the organization.  ? Email administration Linux Systems Administrator Ghana Commercial Bank February 2012 to June 2014 Installation, configuration, maintenance of Linux Servers and Workstations.  ? Creation of Users, Groups and mount points for NFS support management of user accounts, files and directory permissions, and securing systems to match industry best practices  ? Help Desk  ? Hosting servers using VMware  ? Writing and editing of scripts using Bash  ? Maintain and support 600 servers  ? Installation and configuration of SSH software to provide secure logins for clients involved in shell and data transfer.  ? Installation and configuration of VMware workstation on Linux platforms. Education BS in Computer Science University of Ghana