Software Developer Intern Software Developer Intern Software Developer Intern Portland, OR Seeking opportunities to specialize in software development, project management, and application support. Library technologist  with 11+ years' experience implementing, designing, and maintaining IT infrastructures and Full Stack Web-based application  architectures. Demonstrated ability implementing software development initiatives including leading and supporting major  application design and support projects.  TECHNOLOGIES  • Proficient: React, Redux, JSX, Express.js, vanilla JS, ES6, Github, Sequelize, Bootstrap  • Knowledgeable: PostgreSQL, JSON, Axios, Node.js, HTML5, CSS3  • Familiar: Webpack, Babel, Heroku, Travis CI, Mocha, Chai, GraphQL Work Experience Software Developer Intern Epicodus - Portland, OR 2016 to 2016 • Updated payments functionality of Epicenter software product; designed product features including Stripe API and Stripe Ruby Mock with API stubbing for testing.  • Programmed online payment and refund feature for staff to easily adjust student financial records.  • Supported testing lifecycles to ensure the proper operation, security and accuracy of software modules and applications.  • Developed sports website for class project featuring blogs and team statistics; programmed and tested web site  functionality. Programmer/Analyst Tillamook County Library - Tillamook, OR 2012 to 2015 Led technical migration of 9 libraries from Sirsi Symphony Integrated Library System to Innovative Interfaces  Millennium product; completed migration 5 months ahead of schedule ensuring implementation of all software systems and administration platforms. Also led migration from Millennium to Sierra.  • Gathered user requirements to determine operational needs and translated requirements into stable software  applications.  • Created customized notices based on customer/library preferences; generated monthly/annual automated statistics  reports. Systems Administrator Coastal Resource Sharing Network - Tillamook, OR 2010 to 2012 • Researched and recommended new software/hardware to align with library restructuring plans.  • Managed implementation of Sirsi Dynix Symphony Integrated Library System that served multiple libraries in a WAN  environment.  • Directed security of network servers, routers and firewalls utilizing information security best practices.  • Administered and updated library websites and content management systems; oversaw multiple Drupal installations.  • Generated custom 60-page Excel report detailing lending patterns of materials between libraries. Head of Library Systems Illinois State University - Normal, IL 2008 to 2009 • Supervised 12 employees tasked with servicing 400+ computers including servers, desktops, and laptops.  • Implemented an inventory of library technology and developed a planned replacement schedule for library servers and desktops.  • Collaborated with operational and technical stakeholders to complete an internal and external website redesign project. Systems Librarian County College of Morris - Township of Randolph, NJ 2004 to 2008 • Implemented EZ-Proxy, virtual reference, federated searching, and link resolver applications.  • Supervised technical assistants responsible for managing 160 computers including 15 servers, 45 staff desktops and 100  public desktops.  • Migrated public computers and production environment servers to new operating systems; trained users and library  staff on proper use and administration of network assets. Education Master of Science in Information Management Syracuse University September 2012 Associate's Degree Saint Paul College Master of Library Science in Library Science Rutgers University Bachelor of Arts in History Wabash College Skills Git, Javascript, MySQL, jQuery, HTML 5 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/chrisunderwood7 http://chrisunderwood.info