Network and Systems Administrator Network and <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Support / Systems Administrator Boyne City, MI I'm a network and systems administrator with more than 10 years of experience implementing, maintaining and monitoring systems and network solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network and Systems Administrator Common Angle - Petoskey, MI November 2017 to July 2019 While working as a network technician in northern's Michigan most important MSP, the companies that we supported were medium to large medical care providers; both hospital systems and private practices, as well as law enforcement and emergency departments. Daily activities range from Install, maintain and troubleshoot software, hardware, peripherals, server management, SSLVPN, backups, disaster recovery simulations, but most importantly is to keep the business complaint with the entities that regulates the use of personal information like HIPAA, CJIS, PCI-DSS. Analyze and fix software, hardware and network-related problems reported by users.  Key Project:  Upgraded and replaced the company’s firewall, redesigned the network by segmenting services into VLANs, updated and integrated new security DPI, created content filtering policies based on corporate requirements, configured SSL VPN to provide connectivity to remote users asd well as the configuration of site to site VPN for remote locations, confirmed that the site was PCI compliant, and documentation up to date. Network / IT Consultant Advantage Networking - MSP - Fort Lauderdale, FL June 2015 to October 2017 Installed and maintained computer networks, reduced network down-time, implemented disaster recovery strategies, and monitored suspect activity.  -Create new user accounts in AD and Exchange, backup/restore/recovery actions, preventive maintenance, and implementations of security patches and policies activities as required.  -Lead and executed projects of installation and configuration of firewalls (Fortinet – WatchGuard - SonicWall) switches and routers Cisco,HP, Windows Server 2008-2016 (AD, GPO, DNS,DHCP) application deployment and end user training/support both remote and on-site. Network Systems Administrator Conrad & Scherer LLP - Fort Lauderdale, FL November 2016 to June 2017 D?v?l???d, m?int?in?d ?nd ?u???rt?d t??hni??l infrastructure, hardware and system ??ftw?r? ??m??n?nt? while ??rf?rming installation, m?int?n?n?? ?nd ?u???rt ?f ???t?m software/hardware ?nd user ?u???rt.   -Supported 60+ professionals in a high-availability environment with all related technology matters, and reported to the director of Information Technology.   -Pr?vid?d t??hni??l support during court hearings and trials.  -A??????d th? ??m??n?'? bu?in??? n??d?, ???rdin?t?d ???t?m d?v?l??m?nt t??k?, ?n?l?z?d ??luti?n? feasibility, h?ndl?d d??um?nt?ti?n and ensured ?ffi?i?nt ?x??uti?n. Professional Services Engineer (PSE Engineer) NICE Systems Inc - Bogota - Colombia August 2013 to August 2014 August 2013 - Present  NICE Systems, is the worldwide leader of intent-based solutions that capture and analyze interactions and transactions, realize intent, and extract and leverage  insights to deliver impact in real time.    Driven by cross-channel and multi-sensor analytics, NICE solutions enable  organizations to improve business performance, increase operational efficiency,  prevent financial crime, ensure compliance, and enhance safety and security.  NICE serves over 25,000 organizations in the enterprise and security sectors,  representing a variety of sizes and industries in more than 150 countries, and including over 80 of the Fortune 100 companies.    Professional Services Engineer (PSE Engineer)    • Responsible for the implementation and integration of the NICE platform at the customer's site and remote installations.  • Work with the project team from the sales to services transition through the implementation phases to the completion of the test plan and closure of the project.  • Installation and integration of NICE software solutions at customer's site with their current infrastructure (Avaya, CISCO, Nortel), while following  defined methodology, processes, system requirements and customer  specific needs.  • Provide technical support and technical quality control throughout all  stages of the project.  • Assist customers and their vendors with configuration requirements for all  Nice Integration points in their environment.  • Provide advanced expertise in Nice Systems and Recording solutions.  • Conduct systems testing for performance and reliability.  • Report issues found during implementation and engage support teams for assistance as well as escalate to higher tiers and management as  appropriate.    Curriculum Vitae - Carlos Andrés Moná Remote IT Support Engineer CarlosAndres.Mona@yahoo.com - Coral Gables, FL September 2012 to 2013 Parmac Solutions, Coral Gables FL    Parmac's has more than 25 years of experience in the systems administration  field, our clients range from local offices with 10 - 20 computers to large  multinationals with thousands of PCs. We have two operation centers and a  dedicated team of technical support specialists and Microsoft Certified Engineers  managing clients locally and throughout the world.    Remote IT Support Engineer,  • Set up and maintain remote desktop connections through RDP-Kaseya  • Analyze technical issues reported and prioritize daily tasks  • Resolve the functional and technical errors, provide update patches to the clients on P2P application and Centralized server-based, establish remote  desktop connection to install and update business applications  • Inform clients regarding the estimated time required to analyze the problem  • Develop training manuals for new employees and conduct training  sessions  • Research and implement new practices to improve quality of service and organizational efficiency.  • Identified the root cause of repetitive technical errors and resolved all  errors effectively  • Assisted the clients through e-mail and on telephone as well  • Assisted in the development and testing of applications  • Provided online training to the clients  • Provide support level 3 over all type of issues including software,  hardware and connectivity (LAN-WAN)    Curriculum Vitae - Carlos Andrés Moná Network Administrator CarlosAndres.Mona@yahoo.com April 2010 to August 2012 April 2010 - Aug 2012    SNC-Lavalin Construction, Bogota-Colombia  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. a Montréal-based company is the largest engineering and construction company in Canada. It is among the top five Global Design  firms in the world    Network Administrator,  • Provide support for all hardware and software problems reported,  documenting problems and solutions as required.  • Perform new installations and updates for all the users of the domain,  including servers, desktops, laptops, firewall, routers, switches, access  point, wafs, websense, printers, plotters, etc.  • Provide basic training to end users on both hardware and applicable  software.  • Identify opportunities and recommend solutions that will enhance or improve current business processes.  • Follow the best practices and procedures provided by the GIT group in  Montréal.  • Supports and ensures operating viability of LAN (Local Area Network) for all hours of operation and reports any abnormalities to the GIT group in  Montréal.  • Follows up on faulty hardware and software purchases by pursuing  warranty advantage through distributors and manufacturers.  • Ensures software, hardware and network installs, re-installs, upgrades,  moves, changes and relocations are made when necessary and as required.  • Assist on projects or special initiatives as assigned.    Curriculum Vitae - Carlos Andrés Moná Systems Administrator CarlosAndres.Mona@yahoo.com March 2008 to February 2010 March 2008 - Feb 2010    Bridgestone, Bogota-Colombia  Bridgestone Corporation is the world's largest tire and rubber company. In  addition to tires, Bridgestone manufactures diversified products    Systems Administrator,  • Support, design and implement data connectivity for local area network  (LAN) and wide area network (WAN)  • Assists and coordinating special projects including network related wiring  plans, LAN/WAN.  • Hardware/software purchases and physical appliance installation.  • Assists in providing remote connectivity hardware/software.  • Maintain user's documentation.  • Assist in installing, designing, configuring, and maintaining system  hardware and software.  • Analyse and troubleshoot the network logs and tracks the nature and resolution of problems.  • Monitor activity on the network to ensure security of data and access  privileges.  • Establish and maintain user accounts, profiles, file sharing, access  privileges and security.  • Perform daily server tape backups.  • Research, analyse, monitor, troubleshoot and resolve server or data  network problems.  • Develop, maintain and implement network support, and archiving  procedures.  • Research and evaluate new technologies related to computer and networking.  • Assist in planning, coordinating and consulting with vendors and clients for hardware/software purchases, product services and support.  • Recommend and specify the purchase of related products and IT services.    Curriculum Vitae - Carlos Andrés Moná  CarlosAndres.Mona@yahoo.com Education Bachelor's in Computer science SENA - Pereira, Risaralda 2002 to 2005 Skills Network and Systems Administration (7 years), Users support 24x7 Remote and on site (6 years), Windows Server 2008 - 2012 - 2016 (5 years), DNS, Active Directory, DHCP, IIS, Exchange (5 years), ESXi, Vm-ware, Hyper-v (3 years), Windows, XP , 7, 8, 10 (5 years), Switch,Routers, Firewalls, Wireless, Vlans, Security. (5 years), Structured cabling, Copper and Fiber (5 years), Access Control, Bio-metric Devices, POS, CCTV. (5 years), Sonicwall, Cisco, HP, Dell, Ruckus, Ubiquiti,Meraki (6 years), Windows, Networking, Technical Support, Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Linux Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification CompTIA A+ July 2019 to July 2022 Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/810obq0szzzqqf24 Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/5oapf0xeuqiu-1uw Project Management Skills: Time Management — Familiar August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kqcyuljpo9ngdsd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.