Human Resources I.T - Interim systems administrator Human Resources I.T - Interim <span class="hl">systems</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Human Resources/HR Technology Professional Glendale, CA • Successfully supported HR-IT division concurrently with assigned business groups.  • Interim HR Systems Administrator, responsible for launching Learning Courses and Curriculum for Turner Broadcasting Systems and parent companies (as needed).  • Directly assisted with revision of severance process for Turner Broadcasting Systems Inc.,  • Supporting 4 company divisions during company acquisition  • 1 - year experience as project analyst.  • Creation, implementation and maintenance of a custom database system for tracking inventory and maintenance of multiple pre-existing database systems.  • Responsible for vendor inventory management and communications with vendors to resolve outstanding invoices.  • Successful coaching, training and mentoring of new and current employees on call metrics, call quality and general questions.  • Extensive experience with HRIS systems, such as PeopleSoft, Service Now Case management system and Cornerstone learning management system. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Human Resources I.T - Interim systems administrator Turner Broadcasting Systems Inc January 2019 to Present - Dual Role    • Responsible for partnering with Compliance and Legal teams to distribute LMS Courses for all Turner employees.  • Answering technology inquiries questions related it HRIS systems.  • Direct support of Learning management systems and PTO management system.  • Maintenance of annual employee/manager review systems, including upward feedback reviews and department specific performance reviews.  • Partnering with other project management team members for escalations, as needed. Human Resources - Sr. Employee Services Representative Turner Broadcasting Systems Inc June 2018 to Present • Responsible for assisting with and facilitating new hire orientations, including collection and processing of I-9 documentation; overview of benefits, payroll & tax information, etc.,  • Initial intake of employee relations matters and concerns, providing initial best practice information and collaboration with employee HRG or assigned HR Business Partner  • Answering and resolving all general Tier I inquiries received via case management system or routing inquiries to correct department, if suitable.  • Preparation and distribution of severance documents and packages under approved guidelines, to corresponding HR Business Partner.  • Investigation of Payroll related issues including timesheet errors and payable time details to then partner with Payroll to determine if additional funds were to be paid to employee(s)  • Assist with processing job change information such as promotion or department change, temporary suspensions/terminations, supervisor changes, etc.,  • Maintaining/updating policy documents as needed on company intranet page. Account Billing Analyst Financial Consulting and Trading, International February 2016 to October 2017 • Handle a high volume of customer inquiries with a consistent, accurate, and friendly attitude.  • Review and verify all income & asset documentation, in accordance with internal Quality Control procedures, and ensuring all funds are available in each ATM  • Perform analysis of bank reports, and conduct liabilities analysis  • Maintain and cultivate an effective working relationship with Internal (production staff, branches, other departments) and External clients (borrowers, realtors, etc.)  • Review and analyze Collateral documents, such as: Appraisal, Purchase Contract  • Process/Continuous Improvement: Identify and respond to ideas for process improvement from team members and facilitate and undertake capitalized continuous improvement activities; may include project participation.  • Responsible for reviewing billing memos on a monthly basis, reviewing time and expenses for narrative corrections, transfers needed and miscellaneous maintenance, as well as finalizing the invoices.  • Responsible for preparing the file that is to be sent to the client for billing.  • Respond to customer escalations quickly, inspiring confidence in service and customer loyalty. Occupational Testing Services Rep LabCorp July 2014 to December 2015 • Serving as a point of contact for clients and medical review office (MRO) services to assist with attaining reports submitted for drug analysis.  • Familiarity with and ability to navigate within the LabCorp LCLS 1100 and LCTX 9000 systems.  • Taking inbound calls of at least 100+ calls per day as well as making outbound calls to contact clients, laboratories and patient service centers to gather further information when necessary  • Using best phone practices to achieve first call resolution, insure client satisfaction and desired outcome all while maintaining confidential information both internally for LabCorp as well as any patient\client sensitive data.  • Corresponding with clients via email and facsimile to resolve larger issues that may require more than one phone call when necessary.  • Knowledge of HIPAA guidelines and procedures for both non-regulated and federally regulated drug testing.  • Interpret laws, regulations, policies and precedents to disseminate information to the appropriate party based in fact and law.  • Able to respond to Client inquiries in an efficient, professional manner using excellent customer service skills.  • Thorough documentation of all calls and actions using Customer Service platform.  • Provide stellar customer service to all customers and clients. Education Bachelor of Sciences in Psychology Georgia State University (Senior) December 2019 High School Diploma Randolph Henry High School May 2009 Skills HR, benefits, Human Resources, Payroll, Microsoft Word (10+ years), Microsoft Excel (8 years), Peoplesoft (1 year), HRIS (1 year), Hr Policies & Procedures (1 year), Payroll (1 year), Benefits Administration (1 year), Employee Relations, MS Office, training, Powerpoint, Kronos, ADP, retail sales