VMware/Windows Administrator VMware/Windows <span class="hl">Administrator</span> VMware/Windows Administrator - MAYO CLINIC Lansing, MI • A highly competent and organized VMware/Windows administrator with 7+ Years of experience in Install, Configure, Analysis and ManageVirtualization and Microsoft Products in client/server environment.  • Expertise in areas of VMware Technologies, L3 VMware Technical support,Windows administration, Active Directory, X86 Server Configuration, HP c7000 Blade Chassis, Cisco UCS 5108 Chassis, Automation, Hyper Converged Infra, Linux & open Source.  • Expertise in installing, configuring, troubleshooting, and managing VMware vSphere (6.x/5.x/4.x), ESX and ESXi (6.0/5.5/5.1/5.0/4.1/4.0) platforms and administrating Windows server2003/2008/2008R2/2012/2012R2.  • Installation and Configurationof Microsoft Windows2003/2008/2008R2/2012/2012R2Servers on both physical servers and virtual machines.  • Excellent experience in working on configuring ESXi hosts and clusters with all advanced features like HA, DRS, FT etc.  • Worked on L3/L2 support for all Server related issues. Operation and maintenance of Windows, VMware ESXi, Backup, Network.  • Worked on CISCO UCS Hardware, Including Configuration, Deployment, and Implementation.  • Experience with HP servers, CISCO UCS servers and Dell PowerEdge Servers and Strong Implementation knowledge on configuring and managing HP c7000, Cisco UCS 5108 chassis.  • Experience in all forms of backup and recovery modules in windows server and VMware environments.  • Handling Backup tasks of entire Virtual Infrastructure using Veeam Backup and Replication and VMware VDR/VDP.  • Good experience on working on VMware Site Recovery Manager (SRM) for maintaining business continuityand performing disaster recovery (DR) activity.  • In-depth Experience on VMware SRM and good at performing Recovery Plans involving failover and Failbacks.  • Strong working knowledge on VMware update Manager and deployed vCenter Operations Manager, leveraging its capability for proactive monitoring of health of the entire virtual environment.  • Expertise in converting P2V and V2V migrations using VMware Converter and PlateSpin in a large environments.  • Experience with Microsoft Network Load Balancing and Microsoft Clustering technologies.  • Automated routine tasks related to Windows administration through PowerShell,Powercli.  • Good exposure in Planning, Designing, Implementing, maintaining and monitoring different storage Devices.  • Configuring HP virtual connect, Server profiles and performing maintenance version upgrades.  • Good at Configuring RAID Groups, Hot spare drives, & Global Hot spares.  • Expertknowledge on configuring hardware iSCSi SAN, FC SAN, NFS and NAS storage to VMwareESXi hosts from vSphere client.  • Good Understanding on Hyper-converged Storage Technologies Nutanix and VMware Virtual SAN&NAS.  • Experience in Network LAN/WAN deployment, including IP Addressing and Troubleshooting.  • Understanding of networking concepts, configuration of networks, Router Configuration and wireless security, TCP/IP, VPN, Content Filtering, VLANs, and routing in LAN/WAN, Ethernet Port and Wireless Networks.  • Experience in Active Directory, GPOs, DNS, DHCP, File & Print Server, IIS (Web Server), FTP,Remote Desktop Session Host, DFS, Terminal Server, NAT, Microsoft Fail over Clusters and Exchange Mail Server in Windows based server environment.  • Installation and administration of Windows Active Directory, DNS, DHCP servers and Group policy.  • Developed organizational units in Active Directory (AD) and managed user security with group policies.  • Experience in configuring and maintaining User Profiles in Active Directory and enabling access to the standard admin users.  • Troubleshooting Active Directory replication problems, creating standard process for group policy deployment.  • Worked on Active Directory upgrade and user migration using ADMT.  • Experienced in SCCM packaging, application deployment using Active Directory group and Microsoft security privileges.  • Worked with the SCCM software and managed a large cluster of windows systems and Installed OS, patches and security policies through SCCM.  • SCCM administration -Software distribution and OS deployments Windows 2012R2/2008R2/10/7.  • Upgraded Windows XP, Windows 7, and 8 / 8.1 to Windows 10 using SCCM.  • Knowledge of Security patch installation process on server environment using WSUS and SCCM.  • Deployed Windows patches, applications and worked with Microsoft to resolve issues raised.  • Experienced using an Information Technology Service Management (ITSM) System, Monitoring ITIL environments such as Change/ Incident/RequestManagement.  • Good understanding of ITSM Processes and worked on HPSM & BMCRemedy ticketing tools.  • Worked on Integrating BMC Remedy/ ServiceNow with external and internal applications.  • Possessing a proven ability to assist with the day-to-day running of an IT department and its business IT systems.  • Extensive knowledge of monitoring and controlling data security within guidelines to ensure compliance.  • Well mannered, articulate and able to act as point ofcontact for colleagues and external clients.  • Provided 24/7 On Call production support onsite and remotely on rotation basis. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience VMware/Windows Administrator MAYO CLINIC - Rochester, MN June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Design and implementation of Datacenters and installing the Hardware of HP proliant, Dell Power Edge and Cisco UCS Blade servers.  • Hands on experience will HP, Dell and Cisco UCS chassis and maintenance of converged infrastructure across different locations of the datacenters.  • Expertise in the area of Virtualization with vSphere 6.0/5.5/5.1/5.0/4.1/4.0, VMware ESXi 6.0/5.5/5.1/5.0/4.1/4.0 and Virtual Center server 6.0  • Extensive Knowledge and experience in upgrading the total virtual infrastructure from vSphere 5.5 to 6.0 on cross platform infrastructure like HP, Dell and Cisco UCS servers.  • Experience in installing ESXi, VMware vCenter Server and creation of folders, Datacenter and VMware clusters using enhanced features like HA and DRS.  • Extensive knowledge and hands on experience in P2V and V2V migration of 1500 Virtual Machines using VMware Converter, Double take and Plate spin tools.  • Created clones and templates of Virtual Machines for easy deployment of different versions and different flavors of virtual machines.  • Expert in creating vswitches like standard and distributed switches, port groups and troubleshooting them  • Knowledge in Configured Netbackup Client for backing up the virtual machines using the snapshots technology and removing the stale snapshots by running the power shell scripts.  • Hands-on experience in migration of vm's from Host to Host using vMotion and from one Lun to another Lun using storage vMotion.  • Installed and deployed Site Recovery manager (SRM) for disaster recovery plans using replication between EMC storage arrays using EMC recover point.  • Installing, configuring VDI instances using PCOIP protocol and creating floating and dedicated desktops and troubleshooting the instances.  • Knowledge and experience on applying patches to windows servers using SCCM where the SCCM pulls the updates from WSUS and controlling the installation of updates to the required servers by following the organization standards.  • Configured Domain Naming Server (DNS) and created forward/reverse lookup zones with associated pointer records.  • Customized Win 2003/2008/2012 servers in terms of Registry, Audit/Account/Security policy, patching to sustain Company Standard Operating Environment.  • Worked with business clients to evaluate, streamline, and improve current systems, processes, and workflow.  • Ensured adherence to procedures and processes for hardware, software, and applications  • Interacted, coordinated with different teams and participated in daily meetings and tracking the issues and new deployments to meet the deadlines.  • Administrating production servers/network infrastructure that includes Windows administration of Domain Controllers, IIS Web Servers (HTTP/S, FTP and SMTP), MS SharePoint, MS Office 2007/2010, Exchange 2010 Mail Servers, NAS, File and print Servers and Terminal Servers on Windows 2003/2008/2012.  • Prepared detail documentation for the whole physical and virtualized the environment.  • Responsible for designing and implementing cloud-based solutions, including private, community and public cloud deployment models for a variety of mid-size companies.  • Designed and built cloud service models including Infrastructure-as-a-Service, Platform-as-a-Service, and Software-as-a-Service.  • Responsible for the day-to-day operations of Messaging Systems. Hosted applications include but are not limited to, Microsoft Exchange servers, Windows 2012 / 2012R2 and 2008 R2 domain controllers, DNS servers, ADFS servers, and Azure AD Connect servers.  • Develop Office 365 migration strategy for on-prem Exchange servers to Exchange online.  • Develop procedures for routine Exchange server maintenance tasks such as realigning Exchange database copies within DAGs, moving mailboxes, etc.  • Collaborate with our managed services provider to resolve Office365 application issues.  • Monitor and react to Office365 system outages, problem notifications, and performance concerns Capture, log, and update incidents via a call management system according to SLAs.  • Experience in maintaining the SCOM/SCCM platform including using PowerShell or other scripting tools  • Creation of PowerShell and VB Scripts to automate IT tasks and processes.  • Used PowerShell for DevOps in Windows-based systems.  • Focused on automation integration monitoring and configuration management.  • Streamlined applications delivery to get applications out to customers faster.  • Worked within the Cloud for integration processes.  • Focused on automation and integration.  • Worked on Monitoring tools like solwarwinds, vcops, and vrops.  ENVIRNOMENT: Windows 2012/2008/2003, Windows 7, Microsoft DFS, Active Directory, DNS, WINS, DHCP, TCP/IP, NTFS, Dell Power Edge, IBM, HP ProLiant G3, G5 Blade Servers, IIS Servers, IBM TSM backup, VMware ESX 5.5 & 6.0 Servers, Exchange Server 2010/2013, private cloud, public cloud, Azure AD Connect servers, Office365, Powershell, Solarwinds, Vcops, Vrops. Windows Engineer VMware - Charlotte, NC November 2014 to May 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Design and Implementation of migration strategy for consolidating Data Centers from around the world to centralized locations in US which involves numerous servers of Windows 2008 and 2012 R2.  • Administering multiple disjoint AD Forests, Domains, DHCP, DNS and various other Infrastructure services, Trust relationship setup, DC promo and decommission of AD, maintaining users and groups in Wintel Active Directory.  • Installed the pre-requisites for SCCM 2012 R2 .net 3.5/4.0with site code, Installed SQL server 2012 for SCCM Database configuration, security patches to all servers.  • Provided guidance to customers around Windows XP to Windows 8 migrations using SCCM, Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT) 2013, and User State Migration Tool.  • Installation of ESXi 5.5 Hosts, vCenter Server, vCenter update manager and administering VM's across 3 Datacenters running 2200 VM's, managing and migration VMware ESXi - 5.0 and 5.1, worked on VMware capacity planner.  • Creating, managing resource pools of VM's Life Cycle Management, for ESXi hosts, worked on capacity planning and management of Virtual machines in VMware Environment.  • Identification, planning, migration of P2V candidates, new builds from each site without any downtime, V2V Migration, creating clones and templates of VM's.  • Deploying VM's through OVF templates, worked on snapshots of VM's and on migration concepts like vMotion, coldmigration and remediate, configured HA, DRS, vMotion through vCenter, configured various VM kernels.  • Deployed and manage VMware vCops, Created dashboards related to health, capacity, and performance, monitoring of scores, creation of metrics, Super metrics.  • Managing, provisioning virtual resources using vCloud Director 5.1.Well versed with DRP and Business Continuity Planning using SRM 5, Recover Point, and implemented VMware SRM and troubleshoot performance issues.  • Backing up the entire physical machine, restoring the server on new hardware and scheduling the regular backups using Symantec Backup.  • Creating and configuring VM's in the console, configuring the Host profiles, creating duplicate profiles for the host, automate ESXi host configuration across large number of hosts and clusters, automating vSphere ESXi using Power CLI.  • Develop, designed, planned and scripted testing scenarios for feature and regression testing.  • Retrieve data from application and creating test strategy for the testing.  • Deploying, managing, and operating scalable, highly available, and fault tolerant systems on AWS  • Migrating an existing on-premises application to AWS  • Implementing and controlling the flow of data to and from AWS  • Selecting the appropriate AWS service based on compute, data, or security requirements  • Identifying appropriate use of AWS operational best practices  • Estimating AWS usage costs and identifying operational cost control mechanisms  • Administered and managed Lync Server 2010 Infrastructure and 8000 Lync users  • Design and delivery of all Lync components  • Administered IP development services and participated in Lync training sessions.  • Check and resolved system Wintel server-based UC application Performance issues and Established Lync user roles.  • Monitored and addressed trouble tickets and service requests submitted to the Lync Team.  • Perform Lync 2013 Performance Testing and HP hardware Configuration..  ENVIRONMENT: ESXi 5.0/5.5 vCenter, vCops, Windows Server 2003/2008/2012, AD, SCCM 2012, SQL server, Windows 2007, Fiber Channel, ISCSI storage, SRM, HP ProLiant, Regression testing, AWS, Microsoft Lync. Systems Engineer CTRLS DATACENTERS Ltd January 2010 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Design, Build, Install, configure and manage VMware Virtualization based on vSphere (4.0/4.1/5.0/5.1) for Datacenter customers.  • Installing, configuring, administering, troubleshooting VMware server on ESX platform and VMware client, workstation.  • Creating Data centers in the vSphere Web client and adding the Hosts to the Data center.  • Created standard Templates and deployed servers from the Templates.  • Hot and Cold Cloning of Virtual Machines using VMware Converter and restored VM's using VeeamBackup.  • Installing ESX and ESXiservers on HP, DELL and IBM hardware.  • Configuring and Managing VMware cluster with High Availability(HA)and Distributed Resource Scheduling (DRS).  • Cisco UCS Deployment and Implementation for Virtual Environment.  • Creating and deploying a VMs in vCenter / Deploying a Bare metal server for databases through Cisco UCS, Building Virtual Machines, Cloning & Migrating and Adding processors, RAM, NIC, disks to the VMs.  • Providing L2/L1 Support on all Issues related to Virtualization Environment.  • P2V conversions of Windows servers using VMware converter.  • Creating a backup job and also took backup of data center on daily, weekly and monthly basis.  • Collaborating with VMware partners such as EMC, Dell and HP to provide speedy resolutions to customers.  • Configured RAID, NICS on HP, DELL blade servers.  • Responsible for Manage, Maintain, monitor DR ON DEMAND, a complete DISASTER RECOVERY SOLUTION by CtrlS Datacenters Ltd.  • Plan, Design and implement VDI solution for datacenter customers based on VMware View.  • Consolidation of physical environments into virtual by working in liaison with the respective teams.  • Worked on Incidents raised and completed change managements as requested.  • Work with customer on data center transformation activities and document accordingly.  • Monitored servers in Solar Winds and worked on alerts raised.  • Monitored the servers, network devices through Solar Winds monitoring tool and resolved L2/L1 level issues raised.  • Added servers, applications and transactions of applications to monitor in Solar Winds and scheduled restart of services if they go down.  • Reproduce complex issues to identify any anomalies in the virtual infrastructure and working closely with solutions team.  • Install, configure, Maintain DELL/IBM/EMC ISCSI/FC Storage Servers.  • Participate in the development and execution of the user acceptance test plans, as well as schedule testing.  • Create new documentation and processes as needed to help refine, optimize, and/or to establish network functions and processes.  • Accomplish customer ROR tasks with in time line to meet MAS audit.  • Automating Daily dashboard reports and day to day tasks as part of BAU. Education Master's in Software Engineering in Software Engineering University of Houston - Clear Lake, TX January 2014 to May 2015 Skills Cisco (5 years), databases (3 years), documentation (5 years), ISCSI (5 years), Virtualization (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Virtualization:VMware VSphere 4.0/4.1/5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0, ESX Server 3/3.5/4.0, ESXi 4.0/4.1/5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0, VMware update manager, VMware Horizon View 6.0.1/6.0, vCenter server 4.0/4.1/5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0 and Virtual center server 2.5, VMware HA, DRS, DPM and FT, VMotion and Storage VMotion. VMware vCenter Converter 5.5/6.0, Vcops, SRM.  • Windows Administration: Configuration of DNS and DHCP, Windows server 2003/2008/2008R2/2012/2012R2, Active Directory and Internet Information Services (IIS 8.5/8.0/7.5/7.0), creating users and groups, setting user access controls and Domain Controllers.  • Networking: Cisco 25xx, 35xx Routers and 35xx Switches.  • Network Protocols: TCP/IP, DHCP, HTTP, HTTPS, VPN, DNS, NTP, WINS, FTP, SSH and Telnet.  • Storage: VMAX, VNX, NAS (NFS), SAN and ISCSI.  • Server Hardware: IBM X Series, DELL PowerEdge, DELL PowerVault, HP ProLiant, HP c7000, IBM Blade center, Nutanix, Cisco UCS.  • Automation: Strong knowledge of VMware vRealize Operations Management 6 (vROM).  • Experience on installing, configuring, and upgrading support for vRealize Automation (vRA)&vRealize Orchestrator (vRO) and Automation tools.  • Operating System: Windows Server 2003/2008/2008 R2/2012/2012R2, Windows  • 7/8/8.1/10 Linux andunix.    • Antivirus: Symantec Endpoint, Norton Antivirus, McAfee.  • Backup Software: Symantec Backup exec, CommVault, Veeam, Veritas Netback up tools.  • Databases: Microsoft SQL Server2005/2008/2008R2/2012, Oracle.  • Documentation Apps: MS Visio, MS Office 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013 and office 365.  • Remote connectivity tools: Remote Desktop Services, VNC, Putty, Dame Ware Tree Size Professional.  • Other Tools: Shavlik patching tool, WSUS, ZAM (Zen Assets Management), POB, HPOV, SEPM, MacAfee, Power shell Scripting, VB scripting.