Systems Analyst IV <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst IV Systems Analyst IV - Texas Department of Public Safety Austin, TX I have more than ten years of experience in the deployment, administration, and the repair and maintenance of  IT systems. I earned an International Baccalaureate diploma. I graduated from the University of Texas Pan  American in three years with a CIS degree. I am a quick learner and pick up technical information readily. I am  an excellent problem-solver and work well under pressure. I seek opportunities to connect with other teams and  cross-train to improve communications across divides. I am good at communicating technical concepts to people  without technical backgrounds.    TECHNICAL ENVIRONMENT Work Experience Systems Analyst IV Texas Department of Public Safety - Austin, TX January 2016 to Present I work in a small team responsible for deployment, administration, and repair  of physical and virtual Windows and RHEL servers (1000+) and VMWare ESXi infrastructure. I manage WSUS and SCCM to ensure server updates are compliant and documented. I work with other teams to help migrate their applications off of legacy OSes to reduce contract costs. I rolled out management software like Dell OpenManage and configured out-of-band management like iDRAC to help track and monitor physical servers across the agency. I work with Cyber Security to deploy, configure, and define metrics for Splunk in the environment. Senior Systems and Network Administrator DataNet Systems - Austin, TX February 2015 to December 2015 I was responsible for IT-as-a-service for over thirty clients. I managed cloud and on-site solutions for businesses with up to five hundred users. I managed MS Windows network environments with Exchange and often VMware along with tiered backup solutions. Systems Administrator Brookshire Brothers - Lufkin, TX June 2013 to February 2015 I originally started as the PC technician solely responsible for 500+ HQ PCs and printers. I after 5 months, promoted to a systems administration role and trained my replacement technician. I managed VMware infrastructure, SAN, AD and GP, Kaspersky server, Exchange, WSUS, file servers, print servers, and SQL servers for over 200 servers and over 1000 users. Technician My Tech - McAllen, TX March 2012 to May 2013 Jack-of-all-trades position that included everything from physical wiring installation to desktop  support to network IDS management. I installed and managed IP cameras, NVRs, PA speakers, and physical asset management systems. Assistant to the Software Systems Specialist University of Texas Pan American - Edinburg, TX August 2008 to May 2011 Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems University of Texas Pan American - Edinburg, TX August 2008 to July 2011 Skills VMWARE (5 years), C++, EXCHANGE (3 years), HTML, VISIO, Powershell (2 years), Windows (10+ years), Servers (10+ years), Linux (2 years), System Administration (5 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows 10 - Windows 3.11, Windows Server 2016 - 2000, VMWare ESXi 6.7-5,  iOS, Android, DOS, Debian, RHEL  Cloud Platforms: AWS  Software: VMWare vSphere, MS SCCM, MS Exchange, O365, MS AD, MS IIS, MS RSAT, MS  Office 2016-2000 + Project & Visio  Languages: PowerShell, Visual Basic, C++, HTML