DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer Fairfax, VA Work Experience DevOps Engineer Sevatec - Fairfax, VA June 2017 to Present • Infrastructure as code Development combining Terraform and Chef, involving AWS services such as EC2, R53 and S3.  • Automated AWS Procedures by creating Python scripts with Boto3 SDK.  • Installed, configured and managed Mongo Cluster and assisted on creating queries to run on production environments.  • Responsible for creating CHEF recipes and utilized GIT for source version control.  • Responsible for troubleshooting AWS ELB configuration, DNS and AWS Route 53 entries problems.  • Performed all necessary day-to-day Docker, Jenkins and Git support for different teams.  • Generated SSL certificates for application web servers and AWS ELBs for different teams.  • Implemented CI/CD pipelines with Docker, Jenkins, Maven and GitHub.   • Created Splunk dashboards and Splunk alarms for DEV, STAGING and PROD environments. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR ITEM INC - Woodbridge, VA August 2014 to June 2017 • Responsible for managing Active Directory server and creation of GPOs on Windows Servers.  • Experience in the support of fundamental technologies such as DNS, FTP, SMTP, TCP, IP, RAID, DHCP.  • Developed SQL queries using SQL Developer to provide custom reports to marketing and sales.  • Responsible for troubleshooting server problems as reported by users.  • Plan, install, configure, and maintain networking equipment. WAN / LAN  • Installation of IP based video, networked access control and connection to Genetec Security server.  • Integrated VMWare virtualization solution which improved product documentation access.  • Create and maintain comprehensive documentation of network topology, equipment, and configuration. XEROX PRINTER TECHNICIAN II ITEM INC - Alexandria, VA August 2012 to August 2014 • Created documentation and procedures for end-users and internal standards.  • Provided technical support to clients and coworkers.  • Performed repairs, troubleshooting, and refurbishing of printers, circuit boards and computers.  • Proactively identified problems and implemented cost-effective solutions.  • Focused in improving productivity and organization of staff by redesigning tasks and procedures. Education B.S. IN APPLIED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY in Database and Programming George Mason University Skills Jenkins, Devops, AWS, Linux, Bash, Git Links http://github.com/fsrodriguezm http://linkedin.com/in/fsrodriguezm