Jr Linux Systems Administrator Jr Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Jr Linux Systems Administrator - Direct Tic LLc Columbia, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Jr Linux Systems Administrator Direct Tic LLc - Alexandria, VA January 2014 to Present • Ensured that the environment continuously operates properly and ensure that any problems that arise are quickly resolved.  • Resolved remedy ticket requests within the appropriate time frame  • Provided quarterly artifacts report to the management team  • Maintained over 300 servers running Red hat Linux 5, 6 and 7  • Provided support for Engineers, database administrators and programmers.  • Used local yum repository to patch all Red Hat Linux systems.  • A member of a dynamic team of Linux and Unix administrators in charge of managing and maintaining the entire infrastructure  • Currently providing ongoing management, performance-tuning and Tier 3 support for approximately 300 Linux and UNIX systems.  • Very familiar and adoptable with multi-platform technologies such as: VMWare EXSi 5.x VSphere client, KVM, VirtualBox hypervisors and Satellite 5 and 6 servers  • Ensured that assigned systems are engineered, configured and optimized for maximum functionality and availability. Implemented solutions that reduced single points of failure and improved system uptime  • Performs hardware/software installations; and uses LVM (logical volume management) to create, volume groups, and physical volumes, extend and reduce logical volumes.  • Performs system monitoring using Linux native tools such as: top, vmstat, sar, tcpdump, ps, etc  • Troubleshoot: Rectified many issues by instituting best practices in system log analysis, backups, network operating center security, user account/permissions management and systems/software auditing.  • Strong Knowledge of internet services, systems monitoring management, and open source tools with emphasis on Syslog, SMTP, HTTP, LDAP, Radius, SQL, and DNS.  • Troubleshooting, optimization, and performance tuning of applications, databases, and Unix systems  • Strong documentation skills  • Understanding of Systems design and the OSI model  • Strong general automation skills .This includes scripting, automated monitoring and automated monitoring, and automated VM deployments  • Vagrant experience  • Cisco/ Dell / IBM / Sun hardware experience and knowledge .Experience with Blade hardware.  • Experience with Nagios or Zabbix monitoring software, writing scripts to extend monitoring capabilities.  • Linux cluster (heartbeat, pacemaker, corosync) experience.  • Great experience in creating physical volume, logical volume, volume groups using LVM (Logical Volume Management)  • Worked with advanced engineers on installing and configuring VMware/EXSi 5.x Servers for virtualizations.  • Managed disks and file system using LVM (Logical volume Management)  • Extensively involved in troubleshooting bottlenecks of Memory, CPU, Devices and network using ps, vmstat, iostat, netstat, sar, snoop, nfsstat commands.  • Installed numerous operating systems on physical hardware and a virtualize environment; (i.e. RHEL5,6, 7/Centos 6,7 Linux)  • Managed and monitored industry-specific application servers such as: Apache, Tomcat and jboss.  • Performed routine system management, operating system upgrades and software updates.  • Installed and configured anti-virus software with its updates and industry specific software.  • Experience installing, configuring, monitoring, upgrading and troubleshooting virtual machine provisioning infrastructure