IT Systems Technician II IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> Technician II Systems Administrator Las Vegas, NV • Seeking a challenging long-term position with potential for growth and advancement in my  pursuing I.T. and electronic field. Having a career that I can keep learning from to advance my  skills in troubleshooting and maintaining. Work Experience IT Systems Technician II McCarren International Airport - Las Vegas, NV June 2019 to Present In this position, I managed the service, imaging, and deployment of hundreds of computers, software and peripherals to workstations without disrupting the vast and constant flow of systems within McCarren International Airport. A few of my daily duties consisted of troubleshooting and configuring new system technology to be compatible with legacy builds, performing routine asset management and audits, and ensure employee workstations and kiosks are working properly and communicating with services to establish a well-executed system of operations is in place at all times. Systems Administrator/Data Analyst Streamline Dental Solutions - Las Vegas, NV April 2018 to May 2019 I provided on-site and remote technical support and sever maintenance for all servers, gateways, switches, and x-ray machines. My main duties consisted of Installing and configuring software, hardware, and networks, while monitoring system performance, and troubleshooting issues. This Ensured the security and efficiency of infrastructure from VPN connections to Active Directory. Setting up VOIP and IP security Cameras, Creating KB articles and handling trouble tickets and managing IT inventory System, and. monitoring network to keep connection up and making sure users VPN connecting is working. Knowledge of programs such as Uptime, VMware VCenter, Zabbix, Grafana, and Tableau were required to successfully complete these tasks. Technician Supervisor JIPC - Las Vegas, NV April 2016 to March 2019 In charge of overseeing and instructing a team of technicians as well as managing the budget for company repairs, thus keeping store outsourcing repairs to a minimum.  My employees and I were in charge of handling Maintenance and Hardware/Software troubleshooting and the install, upgrade, repair, and wiring of high value machines used for entertainment purposes. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science (Attending) College of Southern Nevada - Las Vegas, NV October 2018 to Present Medical Assistant Anthem Institute May 2010 to March 2011 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Linux, Active Directory, System Admin, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Service Desk, Tech Support, VPN, Linux Administrator Additional Information • LAMP and WAMP installs and configuration for websites.    • Virtual Hypervisor experience (Installing OS, Creating and managing instances) with VMware and Microsoft Hyper-V                            • Installing and configuring networking systems such as routers (Fortigate, Cisco, Sophos), switches (Unifi, Cisco, HP) and NVRs (Reolink, Unifi, Samsung).    • IAAS, PAAS and SAAS cloud service integration (Amazon EC2, Digital Ocean Droplets and Google )       • Windows Active Directory, DHCP, DNS and File Services    • Massive deployment experience with imaging software such as Marcium Reflect, Symantec Ghost and Acronis True Image.    • Knowledge of Windows OS (Win XP, Vista, 7, Server and Embedded), Mac OS and Linux (Ubuntu, CentOS and Debian) install, setup and repair.    • Computer building and motherboard diagnostic and repair.         