Systems Engineer II <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer II Pineville, LA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer II 3-D Technology Consulting - Remote February 2019 to Present • Designed and implemented solution for a new SCCM environment, upgrading from 2012 SP1 to current branch.    • Engineered patching solution to automate patching by leveraging SCCM with AD groups. Kept downtime and workflow impact to a minimum for over 50,000 workstations and 10,000 servers across hospitals throughout the US.    • Wrote Powershell scripts to automate complex shutdown and start procedures for medical application servers including Dragon dictation, 3M360, GE Muse, eScription, and others. System Administrator UT Health - Tyler, TX September 2017 to February 2019 • SCCM - Designed, implemented, and maintained SCCM environment from the ground up. Built storefront solution to deliver applications to end users across multiple OS's. Developed custom solution using Powershell and SCCM to automate patching of servers and workstations following best practice techniques to automatically promote updates from test to production environment after proper testing. Redesigned imaging process to automate driver installations, default application installs, and MBAM encryption reducing turnaround time from days to hours. Implemented in-place upgrade solution to upgrade clients from Windows 7 to Windows 10 while keeping settings and files without any input or interruption to the end users using USMT. Designed and implemented solution to silently upgrade all Office Clients to Office 2016 C2R utilizing O365 licensing.    • Intune - Designed Intune company portal, created and maintained security policies, and published applications for both Android and IOS mobile devices.    • Active Directory - Completely redesigned AD structure for users, workstations, servers, and security groups. Consolidated and reorganized hundreds of GPOs using improved AD hierarchy to enforce compliance of HIPAA, FIPS,and FERPA standards. Migrated legacy file servers from 2008r2 to 2016. Developed custom Powershell script to set up RBAC via AD security groups instead of manually setting NTFS permissions per user per folder.    • VMware - Automated server VM builds using PowerCLI by creating custom Microsoft Forms front-end request form that, upon approval from the IT Security team would use Microsoft Office 365 Flow and PowerCLI to validate requests, build servers(automatically setting the correct amount of vCPUs, RAM, HDDs, HDD sizes, AD description, vcenter description, local administrators, windows update schedule, and data owner), and upload the build documentation to Sharepoint.    • Azure - Developed app to allow attending doctors to grade resident doctors from a smartphone via PowerApps, targeting specific users via Azure AD groups and automatically exporting the data to a secure Sharepoint site. Designed conditional access policies to stop malicious sign-in attempts from international locations. Developed Powershell based solution to provide a daily report of risky sign-ins using Microsoft Azure Functions. Systems Administrator I CHRISTUS Trinity Mother Frances Hospitals and Clinics - Tyler, TX July 2015 to August 2017 • RDS Farm Administrator (Windows Server 2016) - Designed, implemented, and maintained solution to publish applications to users on a different domain during migration.    • SCCM Administrator (Windows Server 2012) - Developed and maintained software packages, driver packages, and operating system deployment task sequences.     • AD Administrator (Windows Server 2012) - Created and maintained OU's, GPO's, and security groups in testing and production environments. Managed group policies and GPO hierarchy. Delegated permissions as needed.    • WSUS Administrator (Windows Server 2012) - Implemented WSUS environment for 6000+ PCs. Developed custom powershell scripts to automatically administer windows updates and and send status reports.    • Developed multiple tools to automate desktop technician workload in various languages (C#, powershell, vbscript, javascript) Education BA in Computer Science Thomas Edison State College - Trenton, NJ 2015 Skills C#, Powershell, Vmware, ESXI, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Office 365, Active Directory, VBScript, System Administrator, SCCM Military Service Branch: Army National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: E5/Sergeant May 2007 to Present Commendations: Army Achievement Medal / Global War on Terror Expeditionary Medal / Global War on Terror Service Medal / Overseas Service Ribbon / USCG Special Operations Service Medal / Armed Forces Reserve Medal with M Device Certifications/Licenses C# Certified Developer April 2015 to Present Microsoft C# Certified Developer (Exam 70-483) SCCM and Cloud Services Integration December 2018 to Present Microsoft SCCM Certification (Exam 70-703)