Lead Information Technology Specialist/ Systems Administrator Lead Information Technology Specialist/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST Burtonsville, MD Work Experience Lead Information Technology Specialist/ Systems Administrator Head Injury Rehabilitation and Referral Services, Inc May 2019 to Present • Monitor computer security software, including anti-virus, malware protection and firewalls, to ensure programs and hardware are up to date and operating properly.  • Monitor other software and updates, upgrade or replace as needed.  • Perform hardware installations and upgrades on desktops, laptops, printers, and other peripherals.  • Monitor the computer network/server for security and efficiency. Modified as necessary.  • Monitor and update email and websites.  • Troubleshoot IT issues for the agency,  • Provide training to staff on proper IT use and protocols ITS Procurement Specialist/Asset Management TENABLE NETWORK SECURITY - Columbia, MD June 2018 to May 2019 • Supported IT Support and Administration team through ticketing system FreshService.  • Maintained relationships with vendors regarding licensing requests, agreements, extensions and support.  • Performed purchasing duties for all departments, including meeting with suppliers and preparing for contract negotiation  • Usage of NetSuite to generate PO's (purchase orders) for over 1,500 employees.  • Shipping international and domestic packages.  • Responsible for the ordering, managing, maintaining, acquisition, deployment, tracking and securing of all IT assets (US and International).  • Maintained current knowledge of software or hardware changes and planning changes appropriate in response to business needs.  • Manage vendors to include establishing periodic meetings to review service performance and execute any corrective action steps for low performance.  • Responsible for handling complex and specialist purchasing requirements and resolve common problems  • Maintained purchasing process related to IT items (hardware/software/subscriptions) IT Support Assistant Internship LIBRARY OF CONGRESS - Washington, DC June 2017 to December 2017 • US Copyright Office  • Review of electric serial deposits delivered to the Library of Congress under Section 407 of US Copyright Law (mandatory deposit)  • Working within the Library's eDeposit workflow to validate deposit content and associated metadata  • Liaising with the US Copyright staff as necessary to troubleshoot/resolve deposit issues. Technical & Administrative Assistant Kressin Podiatry - Burtonsville, MD December 2016 to May 2017 • Entered patient data into excel and medical mastermind (software/CRM)  • Daily activities, such as, scheduling and communicating were fulfilled by using Microsoft Outlook, Excel, Word, Excel, & Medical Mastermind  • Medical Assistant Auditor & Administrative Assistant Safway Services - Laurel, MD July 2016 to December 2016 • Safway Services is the top scaffolding company in the United States.  • Auditing/Conducting financial examinations for many major historic buildings, including the Washington monument and the US Capitol  • Maintained relationships with vendors in absence of department supervisor Education Master of Science in Cybersecurity Management and Policy in Cybersecurity Management and Policy UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND UNIVERSITY COLLEGE - Adelphi, MD December 2020 Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Management in Information Systems Management UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND UNIVERSITY COLLEGE - Adelphi, MD May 2018 Skills Administrative Assistant, Outlook, Sales, Networking, Windows, Technical Support Certifications/Licenses Network+ May 2019 to March 2022 Additional Information SKILLS  Windows, MAC OS, GoogleAdmin, Network Infrastructure, Zoom, Slack, Okta, FreshService, NetSuite, Microsoft Office 365    ADDITIONAL SKILLS  • 4+ years of customer service experience  • Strong analytical and problem solving skills  • Ability to learn and support new hardware, software, and operating systems  • Strong commitment to team environment dynamics  • Fluent in English, Urdu, Hindi, and Punjabi