Microsoft Systems Engineer Microsoft <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Microsoft Systems Engineer Cleveland, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Microsoft Systems Engineer MCPc - Cleveland, OH July 2019 to Present Work as part of the Microsoft Practice team to help on board new clients as well as support current clients. My specific focus is Office 365 IT Manager Bernie Moreno Companies\ Rafih Auto Group - North Olmsted, OH October 2018 to August 2019 Responsibilities: Head of and sole member of the IT department for 14 different locations spread across 2 states. Manage and handle everything IT related:  • 350+ users & computers  • 20 servers  • 3 separate email tenants/3 domains  • VoIP Phone Systems  • Billboards and printers  Skills Learned: Expense reports, purchasing of hardware, task management, prioritization Systems Administrator Bernie Moreno Companies January 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Work with Vendor's to resolve issues.  • Proven availability 24 hours a day to make sure all issues are resolved for upper management.  • Create, maintain and support all Windows servers as well as some Ubuntu servers  • Setup and deploy Microsoft Deployment Toolkit at multiple locations to speed up computer imaging.  • Increase efficiency in all areas of Information Technologies.  • Multi task day to day tasks as well as unexpected issues with no problems  Skills Learned: Increased VMWare knowledge, Increased GPO knowledge, MDT, Unifi Networking Equipment, Printer Support, VOIP Phone Systems, Office 365 Admin, Exchange Admin, Cloud iPad Management, A+ Certification, on premise to Cloud Anti-virus migration Network Administrator Bernie Moreno Companies January 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Support users and computers via helpdesk with superb user satisfaction.  • Traveling to the site of the issue to resolve issue.  • Setup and configure networking technologies.  Skills Learned: VMware, Increased Sophos firewall knowledge, GPO, Network routing, DNS, DHCP, WSUS, WDS, Active Directory, Office 365 Technical Associate ORCHESTRATE TECHNOLOGIES - Cincinnati, OH March 2016 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed client tickets and resolved issues to meet client's satisfaction.  • Traveled to client site to fix issues or solve remotely.  • Administrative firewall management and determined network issues.  • Researched, acquired and communicated findings to complex issues with colleagues.  Skills Learned: Desktop Support, Digium IP Phone training, Firewall management, Network troubleshooting, Client satisfaction, Sophos Certified Engineer Education Associates Degree Miami University May 2016 Skills Vmware (4 years), Linux, Active Directory (4 years), System Administrator (4 years), Office 365 (4 years), Voip Phone System (4 years), WDS (3 years), Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT) (3 years), Windows Server (4 years), Sophos Anti Virus (3 years), Sophos UTM (4 years), Unifi Networking (2 years), Group Policy Object GPO (4 years), DNS Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified MTA Windows Server Fundamentals Assessments Technical Support — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kz1itw6egvdd31jt Attention to Detail — Highly Proficient June 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bg3bsd7fhnx9ehvu Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.