Network Systems Engineer Network <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Analyst Baltimore, MD Work Experience Network Systems Engineer McKesson Pharmacy Systems and Automation - Township of Moon, PA January 2009 to July 2010 • Support production systems operations for Enterprise RX, a 4-tier Java pharmacy system application; manage over Weblogic 9 with a Solaris 9 web server front end, Oracile 9i database backend.  • Maintain and support host system security and operating system, and provide end level application support for all tiers including applications, web, batch, and databases.  • Install various patches and upgrades across all systems (Linux based) and data services.  • Assist Development’s Level 3 Team with debugging critical errors, deploying hotfixes/patches, and post production smoke testing.  • Tune production batch scheduling environment to optimize server workload and address specific customer issues including time zone differences and downtime scheduling.  • Collaborate with systems architects to design batch tier improvements.  • Perform various data services tasks including user/security management, table-space management, and code deployments.    Accomplishments    ? Setup alert notification for major customer central fill processing, which monitors order numbers and sends an email alert when a predetermined level is reached.  ? Developed and implemented disaster recovery procedures for business critical applications.  ? Optimized nightly extract-transform-load (ETL) procedures relating to data transfer from an on-line transaction processing database (OLTP)  ? Fixed outstanding processing problems between batch tier and database backend, by adding new network/NIC respectively, reflecting customer demands on batch tier traffic. Systems Administrator One Planet, Inc. - Pittsburgh, PA August 2008 to December 2008 Responsibilities  • Managed entire IT infrastructure, encompassing LAN, desktops, and servers.  • Optimized and managed security for all production systems including email, web, and network   attached storage (NAS).    Accomplishments    ? Rebuilt company’s entire infrastructure, effectively restoring the compromised mail and file servers, rebuilding the LAN, and deploying NAS internally.  ? Developed and implemented a backup and storage solution with OSS tool, Bacula. Technical LInux Support Social Text, Inc. - Palo Alto, CA October 2007 to July 2008 Responsibilities    • Delivered comprehensive system and application support on a LAMP stack.  • Provided detailed, day-to-day customer support, application deployment support, and application/ system tuning with shell scripts. Applications Administrator Radian Group - Philadelphia, PA Responsibilities  • Served as Administrator of 3rd party applications for the IT and Business Departments.  • Supported production services across Linux and Windows platforms including patch management (OS / applications), user/security maintenance, and application / host performance tuning, among other tasks.  • Collaborated with IT Project Management, as part of the Application Administration Team, to deploy, configure, and document newly installed systems.    Accomplishments    ? Received Exemplary Performance Award for superior performance and outstanding contributions on the Confluence Wiki application deployment project.  ? Developed and optimized service management processes for Infra, the help desk ticketing tool. Education A.S. in General Studies Community College of Baltimore County May 2011 B.S. in Mathematics Towson University