Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - Michael Black IT Consulting Lincoln, IL US AIR FORCE VETERAN & MICROSOFT CERTIFIED SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR with proven track record of providing a flawless reputation in Windows support and administration. A tenacious and flexible individual; experienced within the Windows environment and effective in interfacing with users at all levels of expertise. Established reputation as a results-oriented team member for completing projects as specified, while achieving customer satisfaction. 19 Years of Microsoft platform support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Michael Black IT Consulting - Durham, NC March 2015 to Present US AIR FORCE VETERAN &amp; MICROSOFT CERTIFIED SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR with proven track record of providing a flawless reputation in Windows support and administration. A tenacious and flexible individual; experienced within the Windows environment and effective in interfacing with users at all levels of expertise. Established reputation as a results-oriented team member for completing projects as specified, while achieving customer satisfaction. 19 Years of Microsoft platform support. Senior Systems Administrator Michael Black IT Consulting - Durham, NC April 2016 to July 2016 Durham, NC   • Brought in to discover, evaluate, document, administer and migrate Windows environment over 9 separate domains and to consolidate into single domain model.  • Daily tasks also included administration of Microsoft Lync, Office 365, Active Directory, VMware 5.5, Netapp(limited) TinTri storage. Troubleshoot daily operational issues.    Microsoft Corp, Boydton VA 4/16 to 7/16 • Project to provision and install over 9800 servers in the Microsoft Datacenter and validate, load and provision prior to Handoff to the customer.  • Perform break fix RMA's for over 250,000 server in Data center to insure SLA is met • Lead the team in number of trouble tickets resolved on a daily basis with an average of 46 Senior Systems Administrator Michael Black IT Consulting - Durham, NC November 2015 to March 2016 Project to migrate 64 tb of various data from over 67 servers and 106 drives to a new Net App storage device. This involves using Secure Copy moving files, shares and ACL.  Planned and implemented path to achieve requested results as well as developing a procedure to implement.  Verified all data was migrated without any data loss  Verified and trouble shoot and all issues customers had in accessing their data. Temporary Project HCL America - Cary, NC June 2015 to October 2015 Project to set up image lab and create procedures to image, build and ship over 320 laptops throughout the US and Canada.  Build a standard image for 3 different Lenovo laptop models.  Imaged, configured and personalized laptop for assigned users.  Worked trouble tickets to assist end-users with any issues they may be having with network, software of configuration issue. Education University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill, NC March 2015 to May 2015 Skills Active Directory, Service Desk, Help Desk Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E4