Junior Systems Administrator Junior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Portland, OR Information technology specialist with a passion for task automation, troubleshooting, and solution  development. Experienced with Mac, Windows, and Linux systems configuration and support, both  from an end-user and backend standpoint. Work Experience Junior Systems Administrator University of Oregon - School of Journalism and Communication June 2018 to Present • Maintenance and configuration of various servers (web, proxy, video streaming, etc.) running RHEL 7, Ubuntu, and Windows Server 2012.  • Management of our Active Directory OU including but not limited to GPO development, user/computer/group management, and task automation via PowerShell.  • Management of roughly 300 Apple devices in Jamf Pro including but not limited to configuration profile and policy creation, API handling via scripting (Bash/Python), DEP enrollment and deployment, and package upkeep via AutoPkg.  • Various task automation, primarily in Bash, PowerShell, and Python.  • Other tasks as assigned. Help Desk Technician University of Oregon - School of Journalism and Communication September 2015 to June 2018 • Assist staff, faculty, and students with a wide variety of technical issues including but not limited to the configuration of new computers, removal of malware, A/V troubleshooting, various software support (primarily Microsoft Office and Adobe Creative Suite), server/wireless connectivity, etc.  • Analyze incoming phone calls, emails, and tickets to either respond, or redirect the individual in question to the correct department.  • Additionally provide support with some web design, script writing, server configuration/maintenance, disposal of sensitive data, hardware configuration, and more. Education Bachelor's in Computer and Information Science University of Oregon September 2015 to August 2019 Skills HTML (8 years), Javascript (4 years), PHP (4 years), Python (4 years), Active Directory (1 year), Bash (8 years), Powershell (2 years), CSS (8 years), SQL (2 years), Jamf Pro (2 years), Mac OS X (4 years), Windows 7+ (4 years), Vmware (Less than 1 year), Linux (8 years)