Cloud Security Engineer Cloud Security Engineer Cloud Security Engineer - Affinity E Solutions Lorton, VA Work Experience Cloud Security Engineer Affinity E Solutions - Alexandria, VA September 2018 to Present • Administration of cloud computing environments and servers with Amazon Web Services Gov. (EC2, S3, Route 53, IAM, RDS, Certificate Manager, Amazon aLB, Amazon Connect)  • Applying windows patches to all of cloud environment utilizing WSUS.  • Ensured that all server hardware, operating systems, software and procedures aligned with DOD standards and strategic business plan.  • Conduct Vulnerability Scans of the entire network and servers via ACAS and Nessus Tenable.  • Maintain Enterprise Cyber Security for DOD network using McAfee Host Based Security System (HBSS)  • Analyze Security Scanning results to identify critical flaws in applications and systems.  • Performed continuous sync operations, including branch strategy planning, resolving conflicts and sync damage analysis in .NET framework, ensuring success of release cycles.  • Server and network administration in corporate datacenter and Amazon cloud.  • Client support for Windows Server 2016 and Server 2012 R2 on multiple networks supporting Web administrators, Database administrators and Infrastructure team.  • Creating, implementation and maintaining of Group Policy Objects.  • Create SSL certificates through Certificate Manager in AWS and configure on all appropriate load balancers.  • Managed and performed production builds 24/7 as requested to meet critical business needs.  • Managing and implementing configuration baselines following industry standards and knowledge of security implementation guides (DISA STIGS, Manual SCAP tool checks)  • Using Nessus Vulnerability scanning tool to remediate open vulnerabilities.  • Installation, Administration and maintenance of SQL Server Instances, setting up differential and full backups for databases in SQL.  • Create users and assign permissions based on level of database access user would need.  • Monitor backups on production environment as well as test environment.  • Using Alien Vault to manage cyber-attacks and to remediate any cyber related issues.  • Monitor system configuration and user access/privileges to ensure data integrity. Network/ Systems Admin CSRA - Washington, DC June 2017 to September 2018 • Provided IT Support for 865 CNCS employees remote and local.  • Encrypted and Decrypted full disk encryption drives using Checkpoint.  • Administration & management of Microsoft O365 users account, migrating users from on-perm server to O365.  • SharePoint troubleshooting, migrating files from share drive to SharePoint updating permission for users.  • Manage, lead and support Windows 7, 8, 8.1, 10.  • Configure, image, deploy, and integrate new equipment into the environment.  • Resolve issues related to Windows, application, virus isolation, and removal, storage and hardware configuration problem.  • Install latest versions of Operating Systems on demand, per requirements of the clients.  • Migrate users from Windows 7 to Windows 10.  • Maintain different group policies for all 35-organizational unit in Active Directory.  • Configured and maintained VOIP phones using Cisco Call Manager.  • Identified vulnerabilities, recommended corrective measures and ensured the adequacy of existing information security controls.  • Configure port security on 32 CISCO switches using Secure CRT.  • Group Policy Object (GPO) creation, troubleshooting, and management through Active Directory.  • Server administration in Microsoft (MS) Windows environments, including MS Windows Server 2008 R2 and 2012 R2 to include performance monitoring, tuning, patching and security updates.  • Assisted with testing and implementing Microsoft and native applications.  • Process requests for access control and for group drive mappings via login script.  • Verify new software deployments and GPO policies work by testing them in a test domain as appropriate.  • Monitored and evaluated tickets through Remedy Salesforce.  • Created rules through Palo Alto to block any suspicious ports, IP address and websites.  • Conducted base level analysis to determine the legitimacy of files, domains and emails.  • Ensured that all server hardware, operating systems, software and procedures aligned with organizational standards and strategic business plan.  • Complete security assessments for new hardware and software: lookup CVE's and apply remediation.  • Install, troubleshoot and apply patches to Crystal Reports.  • Develop and deploy Adobe Creative Cloud Suite packages. Mid-Level Systems Administrator Chenega Corporation - Chantilly, VA August 2014 to June 2017 • Provided 24/7 support to end users by email, phone, tickets and in person.  • Actively researched and learned about new technologies to improve current workflows.  • Prepared conference room technical systems per request of senior management.  • Provided users with steps to help resolve issues.  • Tracked and recorded tickets for future references.  • Proficient in the use of Microsoft Service Manger ticketing system.  • Monitored and resolved tickets to remain compliant of the Service Level Agreement (SLA).  • Maintained adequate stock of approved government supplies.  • Prepared hardware/software for new hires.  • Accessed service tickets per request using Service Now facility response system. Education Bachelor's in Applied Information Technology in Applied Information Technology Strayer University June 2018 Skills Tcp/ip, Splunk, Wireshark, Sharepoint, Tcp, AWS Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sali93 Additional Information ACQUIRED SKILLS  • Understanding of PCAP analysis through Wireshark application.  • Understanding of security applications such as Splunk and Sourcefire.  • Understanding of the OSI and TCP/IP model, common protocols and ports.  • Proficient with IPv4 addressing scheme.  • Used AlienVault to determine known vulnerabilities and known CVE's  • Experience with JIRA, Salesforce and SharePoint.