Senior Network Administrator Senior Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Network Administrator Gardena, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Network Administrator Feit Electric - Pico Rivera, CA October 2015 to December 2017 Roles and Responsibilities: Team consisted of IT Manager, DBA and myself. Reported to IT Manager and VP. Ensure all systems and technology were running at highest efficiency. Sites included ~one main office and 5 warehouses. Users also were helped remotely as needed or in person as available. Maintain low downtime, quick disaster recovery, systems upgrade and project planning. Respond to Executive Staff needs, employee needs and keep communication to appropriate channels as needed within the company. Speak with Vendors as needed to find solutions to help improve network security and performance as requested.  Achievements: Office 365 migration from Google Apps in a mirrored deployment for 250 active, legacy, shared and archived mailboxes. This included everything that you would do to setup an Exchange environment. Upgrades of hardware and or software to run Windows 10 and latest version of Office 365 software for all computers in the company. Palo Alto Firewalls were implemented in place of the SonicWALLs to increase security, visibility and performance. This was able to be completed with all necessary configurations for deployment to be transparent and quick without the need for additional support from Palo Alto. Implemented ticketing system, HP SIM hardware monitoring and NAGIOS system-wide monitoring for pre-emptive notifications of critical alerts. Also, implemented as many security countermeasures to prevent Cryptoware and ransomware from infiltrating the network. Support Specialist Method Technologies - Cypress, CA November 2014 to September 2015 Roles and Responsibilities: Method is a Managed Service Provider. Being a Support Specialist, my tasks changed day to day depending on what client I was servicing and what their needs were. On-site and remote support were both available to clients upon request and availability. Each client had different projects beings worked on, bi-yearly and yearly maintenance for their systems, help desk and break-fix requests, project planning for efficiency and hardware upgrades and pre-emptive checks to ensure dependability.  Achievements: Performed and project managed multiple Office 365 migrations for various size companies, office/ISP moves, VOIP deployment. Restructured network for large size law firm that spanned multiple offices in out of state and international locations and provided standardized setup/removal procedures for users due to their high turnover. SonicWALL SSL VPNs were setup between the law offices to allow resources to be hosted at the main office and accessible to remote offices. Laptop and Workstation Image deployment to allow re-assignment to new employees, encryption was setup on all systems and mobile devices to ensure protection of data in case of theft. Systems Administrator Eleganza Tiles, Inc - Anaheim, CA October 2012 to May 2014 Roles and Responsibilities: Systems and network administration, mobile device management, help desk management, network overview and assessment, project planning, vendor management and hardware/software ordering. Only System Administrator for 6 offices around the United States. Assisted by the company's database developer when necessary for workload. Company size was roughly 150-200 employees across the offices.  Achievements: Implemented help desk ticketing system via OSTicket on CentOS. Physical to Virtualization of old Servers so that way hardware can be upgraded/reused for other projects. Installed new Cisco ASA 5505 for increased stability on IPSEC VPN tunnels, increased security, VPN implementation for executives, and redundant ISP in the event of an outage. Documented and assisted with upgrade plan for SQL Server, SAP and hardware upgrades. Ordered hardware and implemented new time clock and software. Implemented and programmed AirWatch mobile device management for iPads and iPhones.    WORK HISTORY (Continued)  Integrated Systems Solutions - 1 year consulting  All Covered (Now Konica Minolta) - 1 year consulting as Systems Administrator and on-call technician  CyberDefender - 2 years as Technical Support Supervisor and Systems Administrator.  Geek Squad/Best Buy - 6 years doing end-user on-site support and small business servers. Education Bachelor of IT Security in IT Security Western Governor's University September 2011 to Present Certification within 3 Cypress College August 2003 to January 2004 Cypress Community College - Cypress, CA Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kcurtice