Associate Inbound/Outbound Associate Inbound/Outbound Associate Inbound/Outbound - Amazon Dover, DE ? Looking to utilize skills in customer service and working with computers as a Technical Support specialist for your company  ? Use my degree in Networking and systems Administration and previous experience in diagnosing software problems for the benefits of the company as a Technical Support Specialist.  ? A highly organized individual with about 5 years of experience in installing new software and diagnosing performance issues seeking a position at your company as a Technical Support Specialist.  ? A Certified Linux systems administrator with 5years' experience of designing, planning, deploying, configuring, monitoring, upgrading/maintaining, and supporting systems hardware, software and related infrastructure.  ? Adaptable, collaborative, strong team player, detail oriented, ability to multitasking, excellent verbal and written communication skills; ability to work within strict deadlines and with a wide spectrum of people; project skills experience  ? Solid background in systems and software installation, user and group administration, role base access control, file transfer and sharing; competent in file systems, and patch management for 3years Work Experience Associate Inbound/Outbound Amazon - New Castle, DE June 2017 to Present Using Amazon web tool to troubleshoot the work flow of products/goods in the warehouse for picking, stowing, packing, sorting and shipping. Junior Systems Administrator Trinitech Consulting Inc - Beltsville, MD June 2016 to May 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the build, configuration and maintenance of both physical and virtual machines in the UNIX environment consist of Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), CentOS, and Ubuntu and AIX servers.  • Instrumental in Installation, customization, maintenance, testing, and troubleshooting the operating systems and other systems software.  • Experienced working with Logical Volume Manager (LVM) in creating physical volumes, volume groups and logical volumes, extending and resizing the volume groups when needed.  • Experienced in setting up YUM repository and installing the patches with it. • Experienced in installing, configuring and maintaining VMware ESX and ESXi.  • Responsible for creating virtual machines and installing Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS and Ubuntu on it  • Experienced in setting RAID disk configuration on Linux servers, and basic Unix shell scripting.  • Experienced with allocating SAN disks to the virtual machines.  •Performance Management &Tuning of Linux/UNIX Kernel.  • Responsible for working on day to day administration tasks and resolves tickets using various ticketing systems.  • Monitor and analyze servers and resolve any problems, maintain systems reporting, tuning.  • Created users, manage user permissions, maintain User & File system quota on Linux servers.  • Maintaining integrity of security with the use of group policies across domains.  • Supporting users through email, on call and troubleshooting.  • Maintaining inventory of all components including systems and other hardware.  • Performed User Account management, data backups, and users' logon support.  • Maintaining user's data backup by creating user folder in File Server and applying security  • Monitored trouble ticket queue to attend user and system calls.  • Linux System & Middleware Administrator responsible for the day to day administration and administration of RHEL 5, 6/ CentOS which includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading and loading patches, troubleshooting server issues.  • Worked closely with Project Managers to understand a code/configuration release scope and how to confirm a release was successful.  •Diagnose and resolve problems associated with protocols, like DHCP, DNS, VPN, NFS, TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSH, LDAP, SMTP, FTP, SFTP, DHCP, SCP, and to complete Backup/Recovery using tar, cpio, and ufsdump.  • Worked closely with the Networks and Security Team in opening firewalls and DNS requests required for infrastructure.  • Hands on experience in automating, builds and deployment process using Shell scripting.  • Excellent quick learner and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team.  • Perform analytical, problem solving, communication as well as interpersonal skills. Also, involved in documenting technical processes, and finding out with Root Cause Analysis using Admin console and Bash scripts. Education BS in Networking/Operations Walden University 2016 to 2019 Diploma in Economics/Management University of Technology 2008 to 2009