Lead WebSphere Systems Administrator Lead WebSphere <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead WebSphere Systems Administrator - AIG Piscataway, NJ • Over 12 years of hands-on IT experience specialized in administration of IBM WebSphere Middleware and allied tools in distributed environments.  • Expertise in installing, configuring, administering, tuning, troubleshooting and migrating IBM WebSphere Application Server 8.5.5.x/ 8.5.x/7.0/6.x WebSphere Portal Servers v8.x/7.x, IBM HTTP Server 8.5.5.x/8.5.x/7.x/6.1/6.0/2.0.47, IHS, Apache Web Server, IBM WebSphere Datapower Security Gateway XI52, XS40, IBM Web Sphere MQ 7.X/6.X on IBM AIX, Solaris, Redhat Linux (RHEL) and Windows Servers/2012/2008 Advanced Server Environments.  • Performed command line silent, GUI and console mode of installation of WebSphere Application server Network Deployment (ND) on IBM AIX, Oracle Solaris, Redhat Linux and Windows Server 2012, 2008 enterprise platforms.  • Created cells, nodes, deployment manager and managed profiles on the application server ND installations.  • Expertise in managing communication between the web server and the application server by configuring the plug-in in the web server which is also the standard protocol recognized by firewall products.  • Experienced in applying Patches (iFixes, Cumulative Fixes, Refresh Packs) for WebSphere Application Server ND and IBM HTTP Server environments.  • Experienced in implementing SSL Certificates, including generating CSR, obtaining CA Certs and installing SSL Certs, troubleshooting etc.  • Hands on experience in installing and managing DynaTrace monitoring tool for various non-prod and production environments.  • Experience in automation tools Jenkins, ant, maven and svn etc.  • Installing, configuring and maintaining IBM DataPower appliances XS40 and XI52 as XML security gateways and XML Integrators.  • Upgrading and applying firmware versions on IBM data power devices.  • Promoted applications from development environments to integration test, ITG, QA, Staging Model and Production environments.  • Specialized in troubleshooting WebSphere environment issue by analyzing trace files, JVM logs, Process logs (Activity log), IBM Service logs (MQ logs, JMS logs).  • Expertise in using the key management utility (iKeyman), for managing keys and certificates.  • Configured Horizontal and Vertical clusters, Shared Libraries, Profiles, JDBC providers, Data Sources, URL Providers, JVM Custom Services, Environment Variables Web Services, Destinations, Message Activations, Listener ports, Queue Connection Factories, Queues.  • Performed, tuning of Application Servers using the Tivoli Performance Viewer/Monitor, Wily Introscope, IBM ITCAM (IBM Tivoli Composite Application Manager) and other diagnostic tools like heap dump analyzer and thread analyzer.  • Provided WebSphere Application Security for WebSphere Portal security using LDAP (Microsoft Active Directory,  • Used WebSphere Message Broker to eliminate complex, point-to-point connectivity and integration programming so that business applications can easily and rapidly connect.  • Responsible for increasing the agility with services federation management and ESB federation that enables you to easily share services across SOA domains using WebSphere Message Broker.  • Secured the communication channels between LDAP server, WebSphere Application server and WebSphere Portal by Configuring the LDAP over Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol.  • Wrote wsadmin JACL, Jython and ANT scripts to automate various WAS administration and deployment tasks such as JVM and resource configurations, J2EE application deployment, ear/war/jar installation, backups, JVM export/import and the like.  • Used ANT scripts in the compilation and the deployment.  • Automated the WebSphere administrative tasks such as restarting the application server by autosys, deploying J2EE applications, and log rotation, monitor application state by using UNIX Shell, JACL and Jython scripts.  • Installing and configured Single Sign On (SSO) using CA (Netegrity) SiteMinder Work Experience Lead WebSphere Systems Administrator AIG March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Acquired software binaries for installation and installed IBM Installation Manager  • Designing, Administering, Maintaining, Supporting, Testing and Implementing WebSphere Application Server 8.5.5.x  • Administered tasks including Installation, Migration and Configuration of IBM HTTP server 8.5.5.x and regenerated the Web Server Plug-in XML files.  • Performed multiple installations of Application servers' 8.5.5 using the silent mode  • Created default profiles while installations and also created deployment manager, standalone profiles on the existing installations using manage profiles.sh.    • Managed communication between the web server and the application server by configuring the plug-in in the web server. Plug-in management is done by accessing plugin-cfg.xml file.  • Responsible for installation, administration and monitoring the IBM DataPower Appliances XI52  • Responsible for the definition, planning and execution of all infrastructure activities required to support the IBM DataPower environment  • Migrated applications from development environments to staging, QA and Production environment.  • Created and managed high available environment by implementing clusters across multiple machines.  • Configured the Web Sphere load balancing utilizing Web Sphere Workload Management including horizontal scaling and vertical scaling.  • Managed web servers on managed and unmanaged node.  • Involved in Debugging and troubleshooting application issues and Performance tuning using Tivoli Performance Viewer and Thread analyzer.  • Configured, monitored and maintained the DynaTrace severs in all Test and Production environments.  • Written and used WS-Admin scripting (Jython and JACL) to automate Websphere builds and deployments for all environments leading to huge savings in deployment time for the company and also configuring and testing the environment.  • Created and configured JDBC providers and data sources to support backend database applications for Oracle and DB2/UDB.  • Used Jenkin's and ant scripts for building and deployment of applications.  • Configured and maintained Class loader parameters.  • Documented operational environments support procedures, Configured and managed Application clusters, application load balancing, application Server tuning and problem isolation.  • Managed, Monitored and Created Change Management Records (CMR), Critical System Support, to Install Web Applications. Cleared the problem and ticket queues, solved problems and reassigned to concerned groups by end of the day if required.  • Configured and maintained session management facilities thru Database persistence and memory-to-memory session replication.  • Used iKeyman tool for generating CSR and adding the certificate authority (CA) roots to the key database as a signer certificate.  • Installed and configured splunk for logs and traces analysis  Project Title: Migrate Insurance Claims System from WAS 6.x to WAS 8.x Lead WebSphere Systems Administrator AIG August 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed layout of new Claims System implementation  • Administered, Maintaining, Support and Implementing WebSphere Application Server 8.0.x  • Administered tasks including Installation, Migration and Configuration of IBM HTTP server 8.0.x and regenerated the Web Server Plug-in XML files.  • Performed multiple installations of Application servers' 8.0.x using the silent mode and GUI mode.  • Created default profiles while installations and also created deployment manager, standalone profiles on the existing installations using manage profiles.sh.    • Managed communication between the web server and the application server by configuring the plug-in in the web server. Plug-in management is done by accessing plugin-cfg.xml file.  • Responsible for installation, administration and monitoring the IBM DataPower Appliances XI52  • Responsible for the definition, planning and execution of all infrastructure activities required to support the IBM DataPower environment  • Migrated applications from development environments to staging, QA and Production environment.  • Created and managed high available environment by implementing clusters across multiple machines.  • Configured the Web Sphere load balancing utilizing Web Sphere Workload Management including horizontal scaling and vertical scaling.  • Provided support for debugging and troubleshooting application issues and Performance tuning using Tivoli Performance Viewer and Thread analyzer.  • Configured, monitored and maintained the Dyna Trace severs in all Test and Production environments.  • Written and used WS-Admin scripting (Jython and JACL) to automate Websphere builds and deployments for all environments leading to huge savings in deployment time for the company and also configuring and testing the environment.  • Created and configured JDBC providers and data sources to support backend database applications for Oracle and DB2/UDB.  • Used Jenkin's and ant scripts for building and deployment of applications.  • Configured and maintained Class loader parameters.  • Documented operational environments support procedures, Configured and managed Application clusters, application load balancing, application Server tuning and problem isolation.  • Managed, Monitored and Created Change Management Records (CMR), Critical System Support, to Install Web Applications. Cleared the problem and ticket queues, solved problems and reassigned to concerned groups by end of the day if required.  • Configured and maintained session management facilities thru Database persistence and memory-to-memory session replication.  • Used iKeyman tool for generating CSR and adding the certificate authority (CA) roots to the key database as a signer certificate.    Project Title: Implement Insurance Agency Management System (IAMS) Senior WebSphere Systems Administrator AIG November 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created deployment network diagram for WebSphere Application Server 8.0.x infrastructure  • Requested Windows Server 2008 built from Wintel OS team  • Processed and requested privileged access from security teams  • Installed IBM Web Sphere Application Server ND 8.0.x  • Installation and Configuration of IBM HTTP server 8.0.x in network segment DMZ1  • Opened ECC firewall requests to open ports from DMZ1 to DMZ1 n/w segments  • Opened ECCs for F/W rules between DMZ2 Application Servers to Oracle DB in core  • Requested Load Balancer rules creation for round-robin request process  • Created WAS Clusters, App Server and configured as per app teams specs  • Created & tested JDBC data sources  • Installed & configured J2EE AMS Application  • Generated plugin and propagated to web servers  • Provided support for testing and troubleshooting application problems  • Recommended optimum JVM Heap sizes on each nodes  • Used heap analyzer and thread analyzer for dumps analysis  • Installed & configured third party tools for secure policy data to agencies  • Working with IBM in opening a PMR for inconclusive root causes, and coordinating the proposed changes with the respective teams.  • Understanding the system requirements: Interacted with the end users to understand their requirements and expectations from the system being developed.  • Handling 24/7 on call rotation for production issues, perform root cause analysis, managing incident ticket queue system for the web related issues as per the SLA's. Education Master's in Computer Science Skills Db2, Jdbc, Access 2000, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 11i, Sql, Sybase, Udb, Iis, Iis 7, Iplanet, Security, Siteminder, Tomcat, Web server, Websphere, Application server, Json, Perl, AIX, Apache, HTTP, Jboss, IBM, Middleware, Ecommerce Additional Information Technical Skill    Servers suites  IBM WebSphere Application Server (WAS) ND 8.5.5.X/8.5.X//7.0/6.0/ WebSphere Portal 8.0/7.0/6.0, WebSphere MQ 7.5/7.0/6.0, Tomcat 6.0/5.5 JBoss 4.2/4.0. IBM HTTP Server (IHS) 8.5.5.X/8.5.x/7.x/6.x, IBM DataPower, Apache Web Server 2.0/1.3/1.2.2, Microsoft IIS 7/6,  IBM Business Process Manager (BPM)  IBM Operational Decision Management (ODM), Rule Team Server(RTS) & RES  Adobe Livecycle ES 4.X    Platforms AWS PaaS, IaaS, IBM AIX 5.2/5.1/4.5, Solaris 10/9/8, Redhat LINUX (RHEL, SUSE), WindowsServer 2012, 2008  Security CA SiteMinder (Web Agent & TAI Agent) , Tivoli Access Manager (TAM),  RDBMS Oracle 11i/10i/9i, DB2/UDB 7.2/8.x/9.x, SQL Server 7.0/2000/2005, MS-Access 2000 And Sybase.    Version Control GitHub, CVS, PVCS, SVC etc.  Scripting JSON, ANT (apache & ws_ant), Jython (python), Jacl , Unix Shell (ksh, bash) and Perl.  Development Utilities IBM WSAD 5.x/4.5, RAD 6.0/6.1, RSA 7.5, Eclipse, JBuider X, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, EJB, JNDI, JDBC and Struts.  LDAP Active Directory 2003/2007, IBM Tivoli Directory Server, Sun IPlanet Directory Server,