SENIOR SYSTEMS ENGINEER SENIOR <span class="hl">SYSTEMS</span> ENGINEER SENIOR SYSTEMS ENGINEER - Change Healthcare Pensacola, FL Work Experience SENIOR SYSTEMS ENGINEER Change Healthcare - Louisville, KY November 2018 to Present contract)  Designed and implemented Veeam 9.x in conjunction with Netapp cloud storage devices for company-wide backups. Responsible for training and guidance of administration teams regarding backup and disaster recovery practices. Provided day-to-day VMware, Netapp and Veeam administration and engineering services to end clients. Authored run books for backup and restore processes for the backup teams. Successfully migrated and ingested 1 petabyte of data using Veeam, Netapp and AWS from NetBackup. Designed snapshot retention policy and RPO objectives based on business need. SENIOR SYSTEMS ENGINEER IBM - Research Triangle Park, NC January 2018 to November 2018 contract)  Ensured the operation and administration of Netapp CDOT and 7-mode storage infrastructure, Commvault and Veeam environments. Fine-tuned the efficiency and performance of Netapp devices during and after migrations from 7-mode to CDOT. Provided design services in creation of new disaster recovery and backup environments using Commvault. Created run books for all migration projects. Provided guidance and training for backup and storage teams. Managed day-to-day administration of Netapp, Commvault, Veeam and VMware. Designed and implemented a Commvault environment of over 8 petabytes. Preformed Netapp migrations from 7-mode to CDOT. LEAD STORAGE ADMINISTRATOR Nuance Healthcare - Burlington, MA March 2017 to November 2017 Administered a large-scale global enterprise environment consisting of Netapp, EMC, Hitachi and Isilon storage devices. Engaged with multiple teams across the IT division to complete project deadlines. Led installation and life cycle projects for Netapp NAS and SAN implementations. Supported open systems recovery and resolution of issues with Commvault and Veeam. Implemented a backup environment for VMware using Veeam in a disk to disk backup solution for 6 petabytes of virtual machines. Cut storage hardware costs 30% by switching vendors. Eliminated $150k in software expenses by evaluating applications and reducing unnecessary software. Responsible for hardware refreshes, Ontap upgrades, storage provisioning and backups. SENIOR STORAGE ENGINEER Black Technology Group - Irvine, CA September 2014 to December 2016 Subject matter expert on Network Appliance 7-mode to CDOT migrations. Designed and implemented migration processes and planning efforts to migrate and restructure data in enterprise environments. Provided services for unique data sets requiring host-based migrations using RSYNC, ROBOCOPY and Secure Copy. Changed storage environments file security from UNIX and Mixed Mode to contiguous NTFS security style storage environments using AD pass-through authentication. Created run books for migration design, implementation and processes. Preformed migrations from 7-mode to CDOT including pre-staging data and flattening 7-mode installations for new CDOT installs. Designed modular data sets on CDOT, 7-mode, Hitachi and Isilon to be portable and hardware independent for future life cycle migrations. PROFESSIONAL SERVICE ENGINEER AVNET - San Jose, CA March 2011 to September 2014 Addressed storage capacity requirements to create efficient designs for clients. Participated in enhancing new practice offerings to include in the services solutions sales portfolio. Installed and configured Netapp, Hitachi and Isilon systems for new and existing customers. Responsible for architecture and supporting storage infrastructures at data centers and customer locations. Services included maintenance, troubleshooting, data capacity, performance and installations. Subject matter expert for Snap manager for Exchange, SQL and On command. Services also included integration and deployment of VMware. Provided training for customers on SMSQL, SME and Oncommand.    SELECT CERTIFICATIONS  Hitachi Data Systems Certified Professional (HCP)  Storage Networking Industry Association (SNIA) Certified Storage Expert  SNIA Certified Storage Architect (SCSA)  SNIA Certified Storage Engineer (SCSE)  SNIA Certified Expert (SCSN-E)  Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) - ISC2  Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE)  Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA) Education Associate