IT SYSTEMS ANALYST IT <span class="hl">SYSTEMS</span> ANALYST IT SYSTEMS ANALYST - Southern Healthcare Management Kissimmee, FL Creative and technically sophisticated Information Technology professional with over 6 years of broad-based experience in hardware and software installations, configurations and maintenance. Proven ability to successfully analyze an organization's critical support requirements, identify deficiencies and opportunities, and develop solutions for increasing reliability and improvement productivity. Well-organized, and solution-oriented leader with solid management skills, strong business acumen; capable of leading and motivating a wide range of technically skilled individuals to maximum levels of productivity. Excellent communication and diagnostic skills, consistently solve problems and rarely escalate issues. Excellent sense of teamwork that inspires commitment, trust, integrity, fairness, and loyalty. Able to bridge the gap between technical and non-technical persons. Strong multitasking skills with the ability to perform tasks independently without direct supervision. Enjoy learning and staying current on cutting edge technology and systems. Work Experience IT SYSTEMS ANALYST Southern Healthcare Management - Casselberry, FL September 2017 to Present Provide on-site IT support to 42 SHCM nursing facilities throughout FL, GA, and NC. Frequent overnight travel involved  ? Inventory IT equipment at all SHCM facilities, respond to requests for IT support, and order new or replacement equipment as necessary.  ? Provide on-site IT support at SHCM corporate offices in Casselberry, FL and Atlanta, GA.  ? Image, configure, and ship replacement computers as requested by facility personnel and/or PCT tickets. Maintain accurate records of equipment issued.  ? Coordinate and implement SHCM IT projects.  ? Serve as an intermediary between SHCM personnel and PrimeCare Technologies, Inc. help desk. Escalate service tickets as appropriate to PCT account manager for SHCM.  ? Serve as a point of contact for IT vendors and IT-related contractors.  ? Report and respond to network outages at SHCM facilities. IT HELPDESK SUPERVISOR Aspire Health Partners - Orlando, FL February 2014 to September 2017 * Manage help desk tickets from over 1000 users using Spiceworks  * Troubleshoot and resolve various computer and network issues  * Travel to different sites to complete help desk tickets or complete repair orders  * Configured and networked over 100 PCs, accessories, and peripherals  * Repaired basic and advanced PC issues: For example, program errors, viruses, malware, spyware, security, OS issues and hardware malfunction  * Manage and monitor switches and servers for 31 different locations around the state  * Maintain the company printer network  * Oversees special network related projects  * Added, deleted, and modified users in Active Directory  * Created detailed procedures and documentation for use with new software applications & hardware  * Demonstrate proficient in setup & maintenance of an MDT production server  * Create task sequences for OS images  * Deploy images to multiple types of desktops, laptops, servers, and virtual machines  * Coordinate daily appointments, projects, and activities with I.T. helpdesk staff  * Coordinate day to day operations of the I.T. helpdesk  * Evaluate and coach staff on a regular basis  * Train helpdesk staff as needed JR. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Entertainment Retail Enterprises - Apopka, FL April 2013 to February 2014 * Managed over 100 machines including Mac, PCs, printers, and servers  * Managed company servers and insure timely backups  * Ensured enterprise uptime and failover/redundancy with minimized failure  * Ensured continuity plans and disaster recovery procedures  * Worked on Windows Servers Added/removed users and groups in Active Directory and set permission  * Performed troubleshooting for client needs and managed helpdesk tickets  * Provided desktop support to clients which includes, configure, troubleshoot, analyze, and repair PCs and MAC systems  * Maintained Exchange accounts  * Deployed new machines on network  * Monitored several different servers on the network using Spiceworks  * Coordinated with clients to resolve technical support issues Education B.A.S. in Information Systems and Technology University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL 2017 A.S. in Information Systems and Technology Valencia Community College - Orlando, FL 2014 A.A. in General Studies Valencia Community College - Orlando, FL 2010 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Encryption, Networking, Vlan