Program Coordinator Program Coordinator Program Coordinator - Posse Foundation Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Program Coordinator Posse Foundation - Los Angeles, CA July 2018 to Present • Coordinate and run successful "Dynamic Assessment Process" (DAP) which includes identifying, recruiting and training high school students from diverse backgrounds in order to support college matriculation  • Oversee the coordination of administrative functions for fast paced office environment including governing incoming student nominations, staff and program scheduling, data management utilizing Salesforce, and assisting program directors in producing regular reports  • Facilitate and develop pre-collegiate workshops for scholars, as well as professional development workshops for colleagues  • Develop and maintain mentoring relationship with a diverse group of high achieving Posse scholars from historically marginalized backgrounds  • Coordinated "Nominators Breakfast" and presented Posse's Nomination Process to over 150 attendees  • Assist Directors and Program Directors in generating key reports utilizing program data for local and national use  • Forged strategic partnerships with internal and external stakeholders such as high school representatives, community-based organizations and university officials to better support the organization IT Support Specialist Revolve Clothing - Cerritos, CA October 2014 to April 2018 Provided Level 1 & 2 Technical Support Via helpdesk, in person, email, and chat for 500 + employees in multiple locations  ? Administered 3 domains using Gmail for work as well as account setup using Mozilla, Thunderbird, and Microsoft Outlook 2013  ? Provided leadership for IT services' projects, including but not limited to, asset tracking, hardware upgrades, and various line-of-business projects  ? Ensured that all phases of support were properly coordinated, monitored, logged, tracked, and resolved appropriately  ? Built and configured PCs, laptops, and Macbooks; and installed necessary software  ? Configured and managed Juniper switches, Dell Sonicwal Firewall, and Ubiquiti wireless networks  ? Maintained inventory and remained within budget for purchasing all assets needed in the building Junior Systems Administrator Lunar Pages - Corona, CA March 2014 to August 2014 Provided technical support for Level 1 escalation issues via helpdesk, chat, telephone, and forum  ? Assisted Customer Service Representatives with technical support issues  ? Monitored virtual private servers and dedicated servers, rebooting when necessary  ? Effectively assisted customers, diagnose their issues, as well as provided support for customers requesting help installing and configuring various 3rd party software  ? Provided email support for customers as well as assisted the setting up of email accounts through Microsoft Exchange Education Bachelor of Science in Business Management California State University - Long Beach, CA December 2013 Additional Information Volunteer Experience:    Big Brothers Big Sisters of America, Santa Ana CA                                                                                                    June 2017-July 2018  Mentor                                                                                                                                                                                  ? Developed and cultivated trusting relationship with at risk youth in high school  ? Initiated and maintained weekly contact with mentee  ? Coordinated trips and outings to promote mentees personal growth through new experiences  ? Completed training/orientation on child abuse reporting, communication styles and child development