IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Administrator - KAISER PERMANENTE Danville, CA Strategic consulting professional with over nine years of experience in retail and healthcare sales and white  glove IT support. Combines deep industry knowledge with customer and quality focus to recommend relevant  technical solutions to C-level executives. Adept at mentoring direct reports on device deployment and purchasing  options. Work Experience IT Systems Administrator KAISER PERMANENTE - Oakland, CA 2018 to Present leader APPLE INC - Cupertino, CA 2017 to 2018 Cupertino, California  Pro 2017 - 2018  Certifications earned: Apple Certified Support Professional (ACSP)    support of NSOs while expanding presence in the general market. Distinguished as the worldwide  leader in customer service and employee experience for four consecutive years.  • Educated team on cutting edge technology and devices outside of the Apple ecosystem that customers  may compare our products to. Specifically related to how Apple products can be a benefit for them.  • Analyzed and repaired iOS devices for end users and small to medium businesses.  • Assisted customers with utilizing Apple mobile devices for education, business, and personal matters and identified annual savings for SMB customers which helped to decrease their employee downtime.  • Documented customer concerns and ensured proper support would be implemented after go-lives.  • Aided the Genius Bar team with installing, configuring, and troubleshooting MacOS & iOS on mobile  devices and desktops.  • Earned Apple Certification for expertise in troubleshooting and supporting MacOS, iOS, & tvOS devices. Expert APPLE INC 2012 to 2017 Certifications earned: Apple Certified iOS Technician (ACiT)  Hired as the second member of the Expert team to support the new store openings (NSOs) which exceeded  revenue forecasts in the first year. Promoted to Pro based on consistent NPS results, strong performance, and leadership.  • Increased knowledge of Apple & competitor devices to make proper recommendations to end users.  • Drove revenue by designing solutions and consulting customers on cost efficient ways of securely  implementing technology within their homes, businesses, and educational institutions.  • Mentored and developed four direct reports on best practices for establishing rapport with new customers  and troubleshooting techniques for complex problems.  • Identified customer's needs and recommended solutions that aligned with their goals.  • Educated end users on how to use products to best support their businesses and personal needs.  • Led group discussions and orientation for new hires with the company. PC Home & Office Technician Best Buy - Bakersfield, CA 2010 to 2012 Accomplishments: Windows 7 Ambassador Certification  Recognized as a leader in department sales, customer support, and new employee training during tenure at Best Buy.  • Imaged and configured Windows 7 and Mac OS X computers for new and existing customers.  • Troubleshoot and resolved technical and non-technical issues in a timely manner.  • Performed workstation moves, adds, and changes during store remodel. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration CAL STATE UNIVERSITY - Seaside, CA 2020 Bachelor of Science in Business Administration CAL STATE UNIVERSITY - Bakersfield, CA 2017 Skills Ios, Mdm, Saas, Active directory, Deployment, Paas, Customer service Links https://ckhd.xyz/connect Additional Information SKILLS & EXPERTISE  Apple Certified • Technology Consulting • iOS Deployment • JAMF Pro • Active Directory • SaaS / PaaS  MDM • Desk Side Support • ServiceNow • Sales & Support • Customer Service • Windows OS • Office 365