Student Student Student Sacramento, CA System technician in the Marine Corps for the last 9 years in the process of transitioning into the cyber security field, focusing on Cloud Security and Architecture Solutions. Most recently managed large teams through diverse operating environments, was the go to systems technician, and was the lead Maintenance Manager for the company. Held multiple senior management positions within the Tactical Data Systems department and supervised the maintenance and systems operations of over $30 Million worth of equipment. Currently majoring in Technical Management at Embry Riddle Aeronautical University along with attending the Microsoft Software and Systems Academy (Cyber Security Specialization). Growth mindset with a limitless passion for learning. Self-motivated, experienced manager, and someone who loves to work with enthusiastic, driven team members.  Technical Skills & Training  CompTIA Security+ Cloud Architecture PKI/IAM Critical Thinking Professional Development  System Administration Network Administration Troubleshooting MFA Work Experience Student Microsoft Software and Systems Academy July 2019 to November 2019 Obtained the Microsoft Technology Associate (MTA) 98-367 Security Fundamentals certification as pre-requisite for the MSSA program in Cybersecurity Administration.  " MSSA is an advanced 19-week technical training course developed by Microsoft incorporating curriculum content from both Microsoft and (ISC)².  " The program is delivered through college accredited courses with the goal of preparing transitioning service members for opportunities in Information Technology. Graduates of the program will be prepared to take the multiple accredited cyber security focused exams. The academic learning path includes the following:  - Managing Identity Systems Security Policies and Practices  - Managing Identity and Azure Security Services  - Azure Fundamentals  - Azure Security Services  - Systems Vulnerability and Hardening  - Cyber Incident Investigation and Resolution  - Securing Windows Server 2016  - Introduction to Python Maintenance Manager / Systems Operations Chief United States Marine Corps June 2013 to May 2019 Implemented procedure revisions for obtaining accountability of 800 items of serialized equipment while serving as Quality Control Coordinator, decreasing the total completion time by 20%.  " Mentored 80 team members through one-on-one discussion in personal and professional development.  " Coordinated 12 joint agency exercises by spearheading logistical, technical, and personnel requirements and planning resulting in successful missions for the company throughout the United States, Japan, Korea, and Middle East.  " Provided team members with knowledge on Linux systems, Active Directory, PKI, network administration, and complete technical oversight of all systems operations, resulting in more confident and capable teams.  " Gave weekly briefs to senior leadership on all administrative, technical, and personnel matters regarding the operational capability of the department.  " Performed critical systems maintenance on degraded digital communication, data processing, and data networking stacks during high operation time zones, cutting down the RTO and total downtime. Training Coordinator / System Administrator United States Marine Corps November 2013 to January 2016 Managed the training program of over 80 team members, increasing occupational specialty and proficiency, resulting in over 200 technical qualifications, 16 team promotions, and an overall grade of 98% on the company fiscal inspection.  " Instructed over 100 technical manual classes.  " Ensured that all safety protocols were followed during daily assignments and training events according to operational safety and health regulations. Education Associate of Science in Technology Management in Technology Management Embry Riddle Aeronautical University 2020 Associate of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Arizona Western College April 2018 to May 2019 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/matthew-isbell Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: SSgt Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ May 2019 to May 2022 Amazon Web Services - Certified Cloud Practitioner July 2019 to July 2022