PC/LAN Technician PC/LAN Technician Jacksonville, FL Immediately available for Heath It or system admin opportunities in the Tampa area. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PC/LAN Technician Express Scripts - Saint Marys, GA December 2018 to Present Designing and installing well-functioning computer networks, connections and cabling.  Performing troubleshooting to system failures and identify bottlenecks to ensure long term efficiency of network.   Testing and configuring software and maintain and repair hardware and peripheral devices.  Providing technical direction to co-workers on computer and network usage and offer comprehensive advice and instructions.  Troubleshooting and performing disaster recoveries, as well as backing up data in the event of possible network issues or malfunctions. System Administrator Modis - Jacksonville, FL May 2018 to Present 90 day contract position as a Systems Administrator for Baker Distribution.    Created, maintained and supported Active Directory, Group Policy, Patch Management, and documented processes.    Designed and implemented the process to point all Veeam backups to AWS cloud storage gateway.    Configured and deployed custom MS access ODBC connections.    Created backup plans for SQL Data.    Secured SQL server vulnerabilities.    Created and implemented multiple automation tools for AD queries using powershell.    Configured and deployed and automated bulk software deployment tool.    Software and tools used: Manage Engine suite, powershell, SQL, Veeam, WSUS, PDQ, Sysaid, netcrunch, solarwinds, VMware, and AWS s3/storage gateway. SR Systems Engineer MBB Radiology/Vidius Solutions September 2017 to March 2018 Plan, implement, install, operate and maintain systems hardware, software applications and Information Technology infrastructure.  Manage project deployment lifecycle, define requirements, research solutions, design systems, support testing and oversee live implementation.  Oversee the testing and monitoring of applications and systems performance  Ensure that hardware and software function efficiently on a daily basis and remains in safe functioning condition with appropriate backup systems in place.  LAN/WAN/NOC Administration. NOS Patches &  Updates.  Install and implement new programs, modules, servers, hardware, network equipment when necessary to upgrade, improve resources or increase compatibility.  Project Management and Productivity Improvement  Install, configure and maintain software applications, operating systems, administration and network monitoring.  Support staff and end user with resolution of systems issues, malfunctions or software programming problems Systems Administrator D4, LLC August 2016 to September 2017 Installing, monitoring, maintaining, configuring, and analyzing systems and software in a client network environment.  Managing VMware and Hyper-V systems. Implementing and managing servers. Basic network and firewall management. Utilizing SAN based storage systems. Utilizing SQL-based database systems.  Proactively monitoring systems for capacity and performance; Identifying, troubleshooting, resolving, and documenting system issues.  Documenting new procedures and improving existing procedures.  Configuration and support of litigation/e-discovery applications from set up on the back end to final configuration.  Oversee backup and recovery of critical data  Manage migrations of major business applications. Support Engineer eHealth Technologies April 2015 to January 2016 Plan, implement, install, operate and maintain systems hardware, software applications and Information Technology infrastructure.  Manage and support eHealth's Request Management Servers, applications, databases, an Image Exchange products.  Troubleshooting and escalation to the development team as needed for all "in house" applications.  Assist in the Request Management System and Image Exchange products development process as the stakeholder from the support team. Create and maintain technical documentation on the Request Management and Image Exchange systems/apps.  Assist in implementation of appropriate security measures and audits to maintain eHealth HIPAA-compliant status.  Assist in scheduled monthly maintenance sessions.  Maintain imaging equipment inventory, contracts, and service histories.  Install and implement new programs, modules, servers and hardware; when necessary to upgrade, improve resources or increase compatibility.  Set up administrative passwords and directory permissions. System Administrator Availity LLC December 2011 to April 2015 Total of 4 years in this position, May 2014 date reflects the acquisition of my old company from Revpoint Healthcare to Availity LLC.  Plan, implement, install, operate and maintain systems hardware, software applications and Information Technology infrastructure.  Planned and built redundancy into existing systems to eliminate downtime due to server failure.  Working with new clients to on-board and implement them onto our servers and interface engine.(Mirth)  Assist in all aspects of The Clients Proprietary systems with HL7 integrations on a variety of medical facilities and systems.  Document technical specifications, collaborate with application vendors, internal development teams and owners of third party databases to establish data mapping plans for enabling the sharing of data between systems.  Exercising independent judgment to tailor platform configurations to match business workflows/requirements.  Install and implement new programs, modules, servers, hardware, network equipment when necessary to upgrade, improve resources or increase compatibility. Education AS in Computer Science Remington College June 2006 to May 2007 Skills Active Directory (9 years), Exchange (9 years), HL7 (8 years), SAN (8 years), VMware (8 years), AWS, System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information Notable Technical proficiencies    Network Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows Server (2016, 2012 R2, 2012, 2008 R2,  2008, SBS 2008, 2003, 2003 SBS, 2000, NT), Microsoft HyperV Server, VMware vSphere  environment.  Server Applications: Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services, Group Policy Objects,  Exchange, Terminal Services, WSUS (Windows Software Update Services), IIS (Internet  Information Services), Storage Server, DNS, DHCP, File Services, Print Services, Network  Access Protection, Remote Desktop Services, Security and Policy enforcement, Server  Management, RAID Storage Technologies, Desktop Imaging and Multiple Image  Deployment, Microsoft Live Communications Server,  Network Hardware: Access Points, Switches, Routers, NAS and SAN units by Cisco, HP,  SonicWALL, Juniper, D-Link, NetGear, Palo Alto, Nutanix, Dell, QNAP, NETAPP, Buffalo,  Liksys and Drobo.  Security and Monitoring Applications/Tools: Solarwinds (full suite), Thousandeyes,  Nagios, OpenVas, Metasploit, Sophos, TrendMicro, Cylance, Symantec Backup Exec,  and Symantec Endpoint Protection.  Desktop OS and Applications: Microsoft Windows (10, 8, 7, Vista, XP, 2000 Professional,  SE, 98, 95)Mac OS, Linux (various). VMWare Workstation and VMPlayer, Microsoft Office Suite,  Access, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, Publisher, Word, Microsoft Visio, Project, Web  Expressions, FrontPage, Virtual PC, Internet Explorer OpenOffice, Firefox, Symantec Client  Endpoint Protection, Symantec Ghost.  Languages: Microsoft Command Line, VBScript, BASH, PowerShell, SQL, XML, and HL7.  Vendor/provider/3rd party software integrations: EHR suites, PACS, HL7 Engines and  Interfaces by- EPIC, CPSI, Meditech, McKesson, HealthLand, Paragon, Allscripts, Cerner,  Acuo, Mach 7, Mirth, MERGE PACS, MERGE Financials, MERGE RIS, MERGE RCM, CorePoint,  NextGen, and Nuance.