Deskside Support Technician Deskside Support Technician Technical Support Engnineer Lumberton, NJ To work for an dynamic company that will utilize my skills from previous positions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Deskside Support Technician NSC Global - Township of Hamilton, NJ May 2019 to Present ?     Address and resolve IT requests  ?     Receive IT & AV Assets  ?     Request accounts and access for new users  ?     Install standard image for new and re?image systems  ?     Configure (hardware, software) client computers before installation  ?     Delivery/Install Assets  ?     Terminate, dispose of, relocate assets as needed  ?     Provide IMAC (Install/Move/Add/Change) services for all desktops, laptops, and other related devices  ?     Provide technical assistance during install/conversion as requested for in?house and remote users  ?     Coordinate with next Level support for any open issues  ?     Tier 1 support for Network/LAN/Telephony  ?     Utilize HelpDesk tools and software  ?     Tier 2 /3 Helpdesk when needed.  ?     Use of ticketing system Snow ( Service Now ) SOC Analyst Comcast/ Contractor - Moorestown, NJ January 2019 to Present • General IT Support Duties   • ArcSight Case Management and Investigation   • Ticketing and Management of JIRA and Archer Ticketing systems   • Case investigation of said tickets through systems such as Eracent and ITRC   • LEA Phone Calls for Information Gathering.  • Assist End users with login and access control. NOC Analyst \ Team Lead Renner Brown / Princeton Medical Center - Princeton, NJ January 2018 to December 2018 • Provide Level 3 IT EUS and phone support in a 2000+ user environment across 20+ locations   • Support users while exercising great care and discretion in sensitive healthcare organization   • Diagnose and resolve technical issues in Windows, VMware, iOS, and Android environments   • Diagnose and resolve break-fix issues for end user hardware and within network closets   • Document and manage tickets within internal system to ensure quick resolution times for users   • Communicate with and escalate issues to appropriate IT and clinical teams within organization   • Image and configure Windows desktops and laptops for new and replacement workstations   • Deploy hardware to users with efficient use of cable management for presentable work spaces   • Effectively manage deployment of specialized hardware across healthcare system   • Develop internal documentation for workflows and issues to assist other analysts provide support   • Investigate and develop solutions for root causes of issues to improve long term system stability   • Daily use of Active Directory to assist in password resets and updating policies.  • Migrate users from Office 2016 to Office 365.  • Use Active Directory to maintain GPO.  • Installation of network printers.  • Knowledge of Windows (7,8,10) Server (2012 r2, 2016)   • Knowledge of DNS, DHCP and TCP/IP   • Daily use of RDP Log me in Junior Systems Administrator Roccos Collision Center / Contractor - Blackwood, NJ November 2017 to January 2018 • Installation of new PCs and Laptops.  • Add users/Printers to Active Directory.  • Daily use of Windows 2012 R2 server.  • Setup of security cameras with server.  • Setup network switches and routers.  • Communication with vendors with software and hardware issues.  • Setup of Minix mini computers.  • Knowledge of setting up printers on network.  • Perform site surveys to ensure all aspects of the IT departments systems are working as specified.  • Support end users with standard desktop applications.  • Install, document, maintain, and upgrade software, firmware, and drivers.  • Experience solving end-user computer system problems and improving performance on the following platforms/operating systems: Windows 10, Windows Server 2012, Windows 2016, Windows Active Directory, Domain Controllers, Samba, McAfee, Exchange. Experience working with customer/user representatives. IT Computer Technician Bristol Mayer Squibb / Contrator - Pennington, NJ September 2017 to December 2017 • Refresh old Desktops and laptops to Windows 10 from Windows 7.  • Install desktops and laptops to network for use by client.  • Help desk duties upon request by clients.  • Install new printers on network. Installation of new software to assist clients.  • Refresh PCs and Laptops using Imaging software through software or pixie boot. Customer Support Engineer Commvault - Tinton Falls, NJ April 2017 to September 2017 • Be the first point of contact for customers calls and emails.  • Confirm the client is under contact, incident details and contact information.  • Review ticket history for immediate resolutions to incident.  • Dispatch and coordinate incidents to correct focus groups.  • Focus on a positive customer experience while helping resolve technical issues. Education Certificate in System Administrator Ocean County College - Toms River, NJ 2016 to 2017 Skills Business intelligence (Less than 1 year), Databases (Less than 1 year), Hyper-v (Less than 1 year), Iis (Less than 1 year), Vmware (2 years), Excel, Active Directory (2 years), Office 365 (1 year), Windows 10 (4 years), Red Hat Linux (4 years), Mac OS X (2 years), Cisco routers / switches (4 years), Management, database, MS Office Certifications/Licenses Comptia Security+ CE March 2017 to March 2020 Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/eufucfjxkojtbda Technical Support — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cbvxsk69bn72ijoa Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Microcertifications from Cybrary.it -- Linux+, Kali Linux, Network + Security operations, TCP/IP