IT Operations Manager IT Operations Manager IT Operations Manager - TimeXtender Everett, WA Work Experience IT Operations Manager TimeXtender 2014 to Present • Migrated the company from on-premise to Office 365/Azure, including: Active Directory, file storage and SQL servers. Continued maintenance of said environment.  • Deployed and governed Azure resources for development, POC's and other internal use projects.  • Implemented VPN solutions for accessing company data in Azure.  • Deployed solutions utilizing Windows Powershell and Azure Automation to automate repetitive management tasks.  • Simplified the company's use of systems and reduced IT expenses by eliminating 3rd-party systems and focusing on the Microsoft ecosphere.  • Worked across business units to identify and implement software and services to increase productivity.  • Reduced IT equipment costs by simplifying and implementing an equipment policy.  • Managed the internal IT helpdesk that eliminated individual email correspondence, increased resolution times and enabled better transparency throughout the company.  • Developed and maintained the internal knowledgebase for self-help.  • Enabled our product from a download-only offering on the company website to an Azure marketplace solution that included multiple offerings such as: Azure SQL Managed Instance, Data Lake, and Azure SQL DB.  • Maintained the office network. Instructor EDCC 2013 to 2014 • Instructor for CIS 100 that covered business computing concepts and applications using Windows and MS Office, including HTML, networks, and computer hardware.  • Instructor for CIS 125 that focused on Windows command line while covering additional topics such as computer hardware and networking. Infrastructure Management Administrator PPIBI 2013 to 2014 Design, implement, and maintain a business infrastructure in a virtual environment relating, but not limited to, business intelligence. SQL and Windows administration. Client training in report creation and design. Client Systems Manager TechPorta 2011 to 2013 Responsible for client relationships and fulfillment, documentation, support, and business planning. Technical responsibilities included: VoIP, Email, file, and server administration. System analysis/design, networks, and virtual applications. Education Associate of Technical Arts in Design Edmonds Community College - Lynnwood, WA Bachelor of Applied Science in Project Management Central Washington University Additional Information The 'One-stop-shop' for all things IT related. Over 7 years of experience dealing with everything from basic help desk tasks to network management to cloud infrastructure. Everything that is done is under minimal supervision and always inline with the company's core strategy and goals. Experienced in many areas of Office 365/Azure and understand how to best leverage its services to automate daily tasks. Leadership skills in planning, organizing, monitoring and controlling projects to ensure successful completion. In addition to the technical side of IT, I also have several years of customer service that has given me the ability to know how it works and explain it in a manner that anyone of any technical knowledge can understand. Proficient written and oral communication, including development of technical documents, user guides, videos, and on-site training.