Lab Information Systems Manager Lab Information <span class="hl">Systems</span> Manager Information Systems Manager Richmond, VA Highly Resourceful Information Systems Manager and Data Analyst with 6 years of experience coordinating efforts among multiple departments, delivering projects on time and under budget. I lead negotiations with our LIS vendor to build custom interface engines for the business, which saved the company $100,000 in middleware licensing fees. I was recognized with a company award for planning and executing a cross department redesign of our order entry process to reduce use and cost of tube labels at HQ and in the field by 30%. Work Experience Lab Information Systems Manager True Health Diagnostics April 2018 to Present • Responsible as Data Analyst, writing and optimizing SQL queries for data pulls for Operations, Finance, and Quality Assurance.  • Ensure adequate Infrastructure support for Business Initiatives.  • Oversee daily operation of the current LIS Staff and the Information System used at multiple sites.  • Provide employee-specific direction, goals, feedback and education for LIS personnel.  • Contribute to company Quality Improvement procedures, including SOP creation and revision.  • Prioritize system changes in accordance with Company Goals and Coordinate all proposed system changes with Operations, Sales, Marketing, QA, and Billing/Accounting.  • Communicate all concerns to CTO and COO regarding changes that might have adverse outcomes to company resources or procedures. LIS Administrator True Health Diagnostics October 2015 to April 2018 • Developed new functionality and expanded existing functionality of the LIS as required by the developing business requirements.  • Received requirements provided by Management and reviewed for feasibility and completeness; providing feedback to submitters with any concerns.  • Designed and Maintained 4D, SQL, & Apache test systems to ensure all projects were tested in a way that prevented or minimized any adverse impact upon Implementation.  • Wrote HL7 Interface scripts to improve inter- system compatibility with reference labs.  • Maintained and Updated production Systems as required to meet company goals.  • Evaluated success of all LIS changes using predefined requirements and user feedback. LIS Engineer Health Diagnostic Laboratory December 2013 to September 2015 • Built and maintained interfaces between the LIS and Instruments and Reference Labs.  • Maintained LIS production 4D Databases to prevent data corruption.  • Performed CAP Maintenance of all IT systems.  • Provided site specific LIS training, technical support, problem reporting, and resolution(s) to their staff and laboratory staff.  • Collaborated with the laboratory to facilitate validation activities; develop and /or execute test scripts as required. Education None in Medicinal Chemistry, Ph.D Virginia Commonwealth University - Richmond, VA 2004 to 2008 Skills Database (6 years), MS SQL Server (6 years), SQL Server (6 years), SQL (6 years), Html (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), Matplotlib (Less than 1 year), Tableau (Less than 1 year), Pandas (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Css (Less than 1 year), Six sigma, Excel (10+ years), Ms word (10+ years), Word, Windows 7, Operations (2 years), Scheduling, Microsoft Word, Team Building, training, MS Office, Powerpoint, Business Intelligence Links http://linkedin.com/pub/dominick-dedonno Additional Information Skills & Abilities  Management  • Successfully managed a team of 5 to meet business deadlines for new product releases  • Currently studying for Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification    Technical/Computer  • Experience with AWS and Google Cloud Platform  • Experience with MS SQL Server/Queries/Updates/Backup & Restoration  • Experience with 4D Database Administration  • Proficient with Orchard Software Harvest LIS & Copia Administration  • Proficient Windows 7/8/10/Server 2012 R2/Server 2016  • Proficient with MS Word, Excel, Power Point as well as G Suite  • Experience with HTML, CSS, & JavaScript  • Experience with Java and Python  • Experience with Tableau, Pandas, & Matplotlib