Jr Devops/ Linux Systems Administrator Jr Devops/ Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Jr Devops/ Linux Systems Administrator - Data Service Group Inc Houston, TX Devops / Linux systems Administrator  I am a motivated IT professional with hands on systems administration, System configuration, Enthusiastic team player, always looking for innovative and efficient engineering solutions, Energetic self-starter capable of learning quickly with minimal guidance. I am seeking to progress my career in the Information Technology sector where I will use my skills and experience in system maintenance and technical troubleshooting to contribute to an active growth and productivity of the company.    I am authorized to work in the United States for any employer and ready to relocate. Work Experience Jr Devops/ Linux Systems Administrator Data Service Group Inc January 2017 to Present • Working with Dev team, making modifications on the code using Git VCS to clone, add, commit and push codes from local and master branches to central repositories.  • Creating new Ansible YAML, Play-books, Roles and bash shell scripts for application deployments.  • Collaborating with Dev and Prod teams to ensure smooth running of the pipeline.  • Hands-on experience with automation of CI/CD pipelines for cloud applications  • Verify and troubleshoot failed maven builds on Jenkins, verifying artifact id, and date stamps on Nexus, troubleshoot, document and communicate failed builds to the Dev team.  • Deploy snapshots of application codes to Dev and SIT/QA environments using playbooks & roles.  • Participate in daily scrum to improve system performance, and automation capabilities.  • Searching and testing open source applications and software to integrate into the infrastructure.  • Creating documentation resources to aid in future troubleshooting issues, to interact with users and business partners to design solutions for current and future business problems including cloud Migration solutions.  • Monitor system infrastructure against zero downtime, perform periodic backups, and troubleshoot failures.  • Diagnose application memory leaks, identify and fix issues related to selinux, and identify library dependencies for third party software.  • Collaborate with business partners to perform software enhancing testing and scans.  • Resolve package Management dependency issues.  • Using Nagios XIt to monitor overall server performance, log management and communicating log messages to appropriate teams in different environments within the organization.  • Installation, configuration and hardening of Bare Metal Linux servers, working with security team on future patching needs.  • Installation and Configuration of the APACHE web Server on Linux platforms, troubleshoot and access log files for errors and web access traffic. Linux Systems Administrator Hewlett-Packard - Houston, TX May 2014 to October 2016 • System performance tuning and basics in monitoring, analyzing system and application logs, vulnerability assessments, performing upgrades and Patching.  • Managing physical, virtual, and network storage ( HD's, LVM's, NFS, SAMBA, NAS).  • Using command line & software server/application monitoring and process management tools (Nagios, Rsylog).  • Perform installation, configuration, monitoring and troubleshooting of LAMP.  • User/group administration, file/directory security, authentication and access management (SSH, Firewalls).  • Analyzing and interpreting system and application log files.  • Configuring SElinux and Tripwire intrusion detection security software.  • Configuration and management of network services (HTTP, NFS, SCP NTP ).  • Troubleshoot boot issues, identify and resolve service failures affecting boot.  • Resolve package management dependency issues.  • Collect system information to aid in troubleshooting, document resources, monitor for any behavior modifications & intrusion, configure system to send log messages to system centralized host.  • Installation, configuration, and Hardening of standalone Linux servers.  • Performing periodic system updates/Patches. Help Desk Technician MTN Cameroon October 2011 to October 2013 • Monitoring Operations and collaborating with employees Help Desk level 2 Tech Support MTN Cameroon, Network installation & connectivity tasks for business clients.  • Providing fast pace customer service satisfaction in a quota driven environment, providing accurate customer support to clients all over Europe of English, French and Deutsch language backgrounds.  • Hardware assembly and quality control.  • Testing & troubleshooting new applications.  • Providing end-user system support, resolving access and connectivity issues.  • Collaborate with IT professional to track company asset inventory database. Repair Technician / servers CFPC/DE LA SALLE January 2009 to December 2009 • Conducted diagnosis of problems accorded to customer complaint.  • Advised customer called center concerned equipment operation, maintenance, or requested approval for advanced repair.  • Reviewed customer's complaint to determine details of equipment problems.  • Analyzed equipment performance assess equipment functioning.  • Inspected units for cosmetic defected and reported findings in traveler Completes repair ticket (traveler).  • Disassembled machines to examine parts, for wear or defected, using hand or power tools and measuring devices.  • Experienced troubleshooting basic hardware and software related problem  • Troubleshooting and problem solving.  • Cleaned, or adjusted mechanical parts to maintain machines' operating efficiency and to prevent breakdowns or repeated return for repair.  • Reassembled machines after made repairs or replaced parts.  • Installed and configures new equipment, including operating software or peripheral equipment as required.  • Reinstalled software programs or adjust settings on existing software to fix machine malfunctions  • Runned basic tests. Skills Apache, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Shell scripts, Firewalls, Nagios, Nas, Virtualization, Git, Jenkins, Scripting, Lamp, Web server, Nfs, Http, Smtp, Database, Oracle, Bash Additional Information Skills  • Bash Shell Scripting,  • Version Control Systems: Git, bitbucket  • Continuous Integration: Jenkins, Nexus  • Automation/Deployment: Ansible,  • Continuous Monitoring: Nagios  • Virtualization: Oracle Virtual Box,  • Platforms: Linux Centos 6&7 RHEL 6&7, and Windows Server 2008  • Storage: LVM, NAS  • Web server: Apache  • Ticketing: Jira/Kanban board/Confluence/  • Strong verbal and written communication skills  • Windows Server  • Hands-on experience with automation of CI/CD pipelines for cloud applications    • Apache, web Server, error.log,  • Automation, Bash, Hardware, content,  • Customer service.  • Database  • Firewalls, Help Desk, HTTP, inventory, LAMP, Managing, memory,  • NAS,  • NFS, Network installation, network  • Process management  •, Red hat Linux, SAMBA,  • scrum, SSH, servers, Shell Scripting, shell scripts, SMTP, System Administrator, Tech Support, Troubleshoot, troubleshooting, upgrades,  • Patching