Technical Solutions Architect Technical Solutions Architect Technical Solutions Architect - ECM Boston, MA Work Experience Technical Solutions Architect ECM September 2014 to Present Business Process Driven System Architecture and Management  ? Manage and design multiple products as an ERP extension/integration for business process  reengineering for clients of various industries (patient care, revenue cycle management, lab, G&A) of over: 60K users, 600K patient records, 70K non patient records, 4TB of data, 30M objects  ? Lead cross functional discussions with senior management to translate business strategies into technical solutions meeting compliance and security requirements for EHR, revenue cycle  management and HR platforms used by over 60K users  Privacy and Compliance Focused Procedures and Standardization  ? Designed and implemented modularized role based access control management processes and integrated with identity management platform in compliance with HIPAA and SOX requirements  ? Analyzed and identified data anomaly impacting more than 25% of patient records. Led technical  discussion remediate the issues upstream and downstream  ? Collaborate with legal and compliance to provide audit reports for various regulatory requirements  ? Led operationalization of solutions-designed and implemented standardized business processes and procedures resulting in less than 5% exception within 6 months of standardization  Risk Identification and Mitigation Strategies  ? Identify and mitigate risks by creating mid and long term strategies through initiating platform  management to increase integrity, availability, better alignment with business strategies, and meeting compliance requirements through: modular design, platform standardization, cross  application security and integrity  ? Identify and mitigate risks by securing PHI and PII and maintaining data integrity across multiple  platforms and applications without impacting business processes  Technical Assurance  ? Provide technical assurance on cross functional projects for senior management specializing in multi-unit business processes and multi-platform architecture for strategic initiatives Fresenius Medical Care North America - Waltham, MA March 2014 to Present SharePoint Farm Administrator March 2014 to January 2017 Architected data taxonomy driven restructure and implementation of 12K user SharePoint farms  ? Created governance plans, policies, procedures and training programs; hosted monthly governance  and awareness meetings with major stakeholders to ensure best practice to protect PHI and PII  ? Led cross functional discussions to translate business strategies into technical solutions SharePoint Administrator (Knowledge Management Systems Specialist) Foley Hoag LLP - Boston, MA October 2012 to March 2014 Developed SharePoint governance and disaster recovery plans aligned with the firm's strategies  ? Developed SharePoint functionalities to align with the firm's long term KM strategies  ? Configured and administered enterprise search environment comprised of 1TB of content, 7M  documents and 5 data sources; integrated with Finance, HR, CRM, DMS and Workflow platforms IT Systems Engineer (Support Engineer) Constellation Pharmaceuticals - Cambridge, MA June 2010 to October 2012 IT generalist in a regulated and 21 CFR 11 compliant environment with hands on experience in end to end IT, including infrastructure management;such as: data center move, firewall, AD, network, server  management, backup, licensing audit  ? Specialized in content management platforms and security management, including securing and handling confidential material for due diligence process, SharePoint and LIMS  VOLUNTEER New England Center and Home for Veterans  Boston Symphony Orchestra (Boston Symphony Association of Volunteers) Education Graduate Certificate in Information Technology in Project Management Boston University - Boston, MA May 2011 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/cassidyroh