Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer Santa Clara, CA Work Experience Systems Engineer Confidential - Santa Clara, CA October 2015 to Present Provided post-sales technical support, configurations, troubleshooting, and standard methodologies to customers via phone, e-mail, and web.  Configured firewalls, routers, switches access points and provided level-2 technical support in resolving connectivity and network related issues  • Performed professional services by providing engineering design analysis, technical support around network design requirements, deployment support and follow-up on network augmentation activities assigned  As part of the Engineering team, performed SAN migration using different strategies to ensure minimal impact on production environment for a large enterprise customer.  • Responsible for performing application administration, deployments, scaling and troubleshooting complex issues with network infrastructure.  • Supported/troubleshooted network issues and coordinates with vendors for installation of servers, routers and switches. Work on project implementation. Provide training and assisted with proposal writing.  Provided remote assistance in troubleshooting network issues for VPN users and recommended appropriate solution to customer. Installed and configured the solution at customer site and provided technical documentation and training for the customer.  • Provided operational response to production issues and drive them to resolution.  Resolved critical issues related to Cisco Unified Communications for large enterprise customers, provided technical assistance as and when required.  • Worked with network, server, and storage application systems.  Installed and configured Windows Servers, Hyper-V failover clusters and integrated with Fibre Channel Storage Area Network devices like VNX and Unity  • Performed ticket management using Service Now. Recorded trouble tickets and assign based upon urgency and issue.  • Identify and document specific problems with prospective and current customers which can be solved through the deployment of integrated solutions  • Handle support cases to ensure issues are recorded, tracked, resolved, and follow-ups finished in a timely manner  • Work to reproduce customer issues and qualify critical issues  • Build a positive customer experience by working closely with Development, Sales, Quality Assurance, and Marketing teams  • Responsible for reviewing user documentation for training materials, technical marketing collateral, manuals, problem-solving guides, etc.  • Regularly participate in technical discussions with multi-functional teams, creating an environment of transparency  • Architect and propose validated solutions which address the identified problems in each customers environment  • Ensure ongoing customer happiness, support, and adoption  • Act as the customer advocate for any issues that require technical assistance and follow up with the customer until the issue is resolved  • Continuous self-improvement and learning to maintain technical leadership of applicable technologies (data center, SDN, public cloud, security, networking, etc.)  • Identify and escalate any provisioning issues which might cause delay in the deployments  • Ensure the continuous availability of all services. Manage, coordinate, and communicate all network maintenances/events.  • Create work effort estimates for assigned tasks and support prioritization and release management.  • Respond to monitoring alerts and tickets created by our customer facing support team.  • Troubleshoot and resolve issues from our monitoring tools and support including deep dive investigation.  • Provide support and assistance to Deployment and delivery Teams with network cutovers, change management and documentation  • Work closely with sales teams to ensure knowledge share of the customer's networks, issues and solutions and provide technical assistance during sales calls and meetings.  • Collaborate with Customer and Vendor Support teams for any product related issues  • Take ownership of high priority or sensitive customer issues and ensure prompt service restoration and resolution to the customer's satisfaction, by using a systematic problem solving approach  • Hand off from Pre-sales/account team including review Scope of Work and Bill of Materials  • Documentation for project plans, project reports, system test plans, user guides, reference manuals and training materials Computer Systems Administrator Global Syndication Hub January 2013 to December 2013 • Troubleshoot, diagnose, resolve and document difficult hardware, software and network connectivity problems.  • Analyze and optimize hardware and software performance through adjustments and upgrades as required.  • Coordinate the resolution of major hardware and software incidents with appropriate internal customers, vendors and other technical staff.  • Develop and conduct formal and informal end user technical orientation and training involving new hardware capabilities, and provide technical training to other IT support staff, as needed.  • Support and provide maintenance for applications, and coordinate with internal customers and developers for application enhancements or modifications, as needed. Web Designer First Gulf Bank - Abu Dhabi, AE 2008 to March 2011 • Managed and tested the content on the Internet and intranet websites of the bank through Tridion Content Management system, using Asp.Net framework.  • Developed and produced websites and interactive media for advertising new services.  • Created flyers and brochures to advertise corporate events and publications, developed Flash animated screens for ATMs.  • Verified advertisements from publishers adhering to corporate design specifications. Education M.S. in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Santa Clara University 2012 Skills Cisco (3 years), deployment (3 years), documentation (3 years), firewalls (3 years), Hyper-V (3 years), AWS, DNS, Linux, System Administrator (7 years), Active Directory, Vmware (4 years) Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching