Technical Sales Engineer Technical Sales Engineer Technical Sales Engineer - BDC, Inc Creve Coeur, MO Work Experience Technical Sales Engineer BDC, Inc - St. Louis, MO November 2018 to Present ? Sales position in charge of over 400 accounts across Missouri, Illinois, and Iowa worth approximately $1.9 million  per year in annual sales  ? Selling combustion equipment, controllers, safety components, instrumentation & servicing contracts  ? Primary duties included finding new customers and upholding relationships with current customers, uncovering  problems within their organization and engineering the solution  ? Increased account sales by 11% for year-on-year sales  ? Tasked with data-based projects to analyze cost margins, invoice history, visit frequency, sales forecast, and more Process Engineer NXP Semiconductors - Manchester March 2014 to February 2018 ? Diffusion and deposition process group at Manchester operations site, manufacturing discrete electronic devices  ? Qualification, fault-finding, process control, and document creation (SOP) across numerous tools  ? Sputter, evaporation, horizontal LPCVD, vertical LPCVD, PECVD, SACVD, RTA, in-situ doping CVD, acid processes, and metrology equipment all covered under the role  ? Equipment lines included Gigafill, Sigma, Applied Materials, Novellus, Thermco, ASM, Mercury, and Rudolph  ? Improvement projects for throughput, cost-saving, and product yield by use of SPC, DOE, FMEA, and FA  ? Trained in Lean Manufacturing (6-sigma, 8D, 5S, DMAIC) and data-analysis (ANOVA, MSA, Gage R&R, Cp/CpK) Systems Administrator Hewlett Packard Enterprise UK - Newcastle upon Tyne September 2013 to March 2014 ? Implementation, upkeep and streamlining of data servers / systems  Solaris, HPUX, AIX, and UNIX systems utilised for server farms  ? Government contracts working with pensions and welfare payments across the UK  ? CRB, BPSS & SC high-security level clearance checks passed for employment Research Assistant University of Leeds - Leeds June 2011 to September 2012 ? Placement in the Condensed Matter group for two academic summers  ? Competitive scheme funded by external research institute EPSRC  ? Unique experience in world-leading research topics  ? Selected to work on-site at the Diamond Light Source synchrotron in Oxfordshire Education Master of Physics in MPhys University of Leeds - Leeds September 2009 to June 2013 Skills Minitab, Data analysis, Problem solving, Unix, Python, Excel, Mentor, Confident, Microsoft Office, Mathematics, Process Improvement, Process Development, Process Engineering, Manufacturing, Continuous Improvement, Lean Manufacturing, SPC, Statistical Process Control Assessments Data Analysis — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/z7wc3eytvnjeijcz Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kttrkypoiahvqat1 English Communication Skills: Typing — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/w-f-ncibgx4kaa-a Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information KEY SKILLS  ? Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, both verbal and written  ? Logical and mathematical approach to problem solving  ? Friendly and personable; confident and assertive  ? Excellent research skills with a strong analytical approach and keen eye to detail  ? Advanced IT skills, including data analysis software (MiniTab, Excel) and programming languages (C, Python, UNIX)    ADDITIONAL SKILLS / EXPERIENCES  ? Peer mentor, school representative, and school ambassador within the School of Physics  ? Trained with XRD, XRF, Raman spectroscopy, VSM, AFM, Lithography, EBL, helium cryogenics, SEM and PEEM  ? Joined MENSA in 2011