Linux/ UNIX Systems Administrator Linux/ UNIX <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux/ UNIX Systems Administrator - Charles Schwab Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux/ UNIX Systems Administrator Charles Schwab - Austin, TX June 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Production Support for 7000+ Linux and AIX Servers  ? Monitored the disk/process/CPU/memory using tools like Nagios, Zabbix and Zenoss.  ? Monitored System/Application Logs of server using Splunk to identify issue, data analysis and security analysis across UNIX and windows platform.  ? Used Git Repository along with Code Hub for Source code management and storage.  ? Used developer's automation tool to manage and monitor: RunDeck & Jenkins.  ? Worked on installing, configuration and administering of DHCP, DNS, FTP and LVM.  ? Worked on various environments in software development life cycle Windows, Ubuntu, Red Hat Linux, AIX, SUSE Linux, Centos and Solaris servers. Experience supporting Chef Environment with multi hundred servers and involved in developing manifests.  ? Created and wrote shell scripts (Bash), Ruby, Python and PowerShell for automating tasks.  ? Used tasks like taking backups, expanding file system disk space, creating NFS mounts.  ? Performed troubleshooting and automated deployment to web and application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic and Tomcat  ? Created day to day documentation of the Linux/UNIX, DevOps use in Confluence and Smart IT, which then allowed for the rest of the team members to follow in the same footsteps.  ? Handled the day-to-day Operations, install software, apply patches, manage file systems, monitoring performance and troubleshoot alerts.  ? Worked on Building & configuring Red Hat Linux systems over the network, implementing automated tasks through Crontab, resolving tickets according to the priority basis.  ? Provided High level AIX support for issues encountered during OS upgrade and UDB migrations.  ? Created, deployed and managed Linux and windows VM using Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization Manager (VM ware Manager), which includes moving and migrating VM from one cluster to another cluster or within the same cluster.  ? Provided timely update i.e. new Software upgrades, Kernel upgrades and new patch releases.  ? Handled and provide root cause analysis for any client escalation and provide action plan to avoid escalation/mistakes (if any) for happening in future.  ? Performed SAN provisioning and expansion in the physical and VERITAS cluster.  ? Involved in Satellite & Repository management, including software installation as per requirement.  ? Monitored servers and handled issues regularly with the help of script and PowerShell daily.  ? Designed Firewall rules for servers as part of the new server and old server as party of the vulnerability management.  ? Patched and upgraded Firmware on the ESXi hosts with the help of script in the UCS manager.  ? Performed Storage Management, Created VGs, LVs, and disk mirroring, Managed LVM and file systems, restore and availability, Monitoring System and Network Performance.  ? Responsible for 24x7 On Call support, responded to emergency calls relating to server performance, diagnosis of problems, repairing problems and calling upon appropriate vendors to resolve the issue.  Environment: RHEL 5.x,6.x,7.x, SuSe, Ubuntu, AIX, Splunk, Zabbix, Zenoss, ESXi, WebLogic, WebSphere, Jenkins, Maven, Docker, Puppet, Ansible, Chef, DNZ, NIS, EMC SAN, SVN, Sendmail, Mongo DB, Oracle DB, Veritas, UCS Manager System Engineer Funimation - Flower Mound, TX January 2017 to May 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Used administration, hardware maintenance, backups, patching, monitoring log files, software upgrade, configuring changes, monitoring and documenting the server (RHEL 5.x,6.x,7.x, SuSe, Ubuntu, AIX) for day to day problems faced.  ? Used Kickstart server for Red Hat 5/6/7 installation &configuration and Jumpstart for Solaris 10.  ? Worked on installation and configurations of Puppet agent and Puppet Master.  ? Created Puppet Manifests and modules as per the specification provided for the automation process.  ? Worked on installation, configuration, maintenance and administration of the network servers DNS, NIS, NFS, and SENDMAIL.  ? Added new disks, formatting, partitioning, disk space allocation, monitoring system performance, system tuning, server hardening and crash recovery issues.  ? Worked on deploying Puppet, Puppet Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure, as well as creating manifests and classes in Puppet for automation.  ? Performed Branching, Tagging, Release Activities on Version Control (SVN, GIT).  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, and GitHub and AWS.  ? Worked on automation tools like Hudson, Jenkins and Build Forge to implement the End-to-End Automation.  ? Worked on AWS & configured the EC2 instances, security groups, Elastic IP's S3 Bucket, Auto Scaling, load balancer, AMI's.  ? Acquired storage with EMC SAN and setup Veritas/ LVM file systems.  ? Worked on 24x7 support for servers on rotation basis and used Nagios for monitoring the server.  ? Worked on setting up, provisioning and managing Linux using Kickstart, Jumpstart and Red Hat Satellite server environment.  ? Used tools like application program interfaces, Splunk and admin console to analyze the issues.  ? Set up CI (Continuous Integration) for major releases in Jenkins and Docker to automate most of the build related tasks.  ? Worked on Docker hub, creating Docker images and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configuration.  ? Installed and Maintained MYSQL, PostgreSQL, DB2 Express -C, Mongo DB database servers in a Linux Box with SSL.  ? Maintained Load balancing, high availability, Failover functionality and Disaster recovery.  ? Monitored the performance of the system, which included but not limited to CPU utilization, bottlenecks of I/O devices, memory usage and Network traffic using PS, prstat, vmstat, mpstat, perfmeter and iostat.  ? Worked on configuring Postfix mail relays with Mail Exchangers, Bind DNS Server and clients, SNMP v3 and NTP relays.  ? Worked on Installing &configuring Web Logic server, WebSphere server, JBoss application server including tuning and managing performance of high-profile applications running on them.  ? Involved in troubleshooting for file system, web applications, send mail, DNS and network connectivity.  Environment: RHEL 5.x,6.x,7.x, SuSe, Ubuntu, AIX, WebLogic, WebSphere, Jenkins, Maven, Docker, AWS, Puppet, DNZ, NIS, MySQL, EMC SAN, SVN, Sendmail, Mongo DB Linux Administrator/Engineer IBM - San Francisco, CA July 2016 to December 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Worked on build, configure, install and upgrade of RHEL 7/6/5 on Physical and Virtual servers.  ? Installed new/ rebuild servers in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements including configuring hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage etc.  ? Deployed Puppet Configuration Management Tool module.  ? Worked on the migration from physical servers to cloud (AWS), and used Puppet to automate the infrastructure in AWS by creating EC2, S3, RDS, VPC and Route 53  ? Administration and support on Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.x/6. x.  ? Implemented Server consolidation and virtualization via VMware virtual infrastructure such as VMware ESX, VMware Virtual Center and Virtual SMP.  ? Worked on Hardware and OS monitoring via Nagios.  ? Performed System Backup using Veritas NetBackup for Enterprise wide backup and recovery and to centrally manage storage resources through a single console.  ? Assisted in code lines, branching, merging, integration, versioning etc.  ? Created Branches, Labels and performed Merges in GIT.  ? Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing automation solution.  ? Installed upgrade, and configure of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x, and IBM AIX 6.X operating systems on large distributed environment.  ? Installed of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x over the local network using Kick start installation.  ? Performed activities like creating Docker images and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configuration.  ? Monitored process in Solaris and Red hat Enterprise Linux, involved in creating and managing user accounts, security, rights and disk space.  ? Worked on patching, replacing failed hardware, expanding file systems and performing scheduled server maintenance activities.  ? Backup and restoration of Database servers using SQL scripts.  ? Networking services configuration such as DNS, SSH, and DHCP in Red Hat Linux servers.  ? Applied new patches and packages for AIX and Red Hat Linux Servers and handled issues arising out of them.  ? Worked on Bash, Perl, Python scripting.  ? Extended logical volumes based on the user and group requirements online using Logical Volume Management (LVM) commands.  ? Implemented Web Application Servers like Oracle Web Logic in Red Hat Linux environment respectively.  ? Worked on installing, configuring, and troubleshooting VMware server on ESXi platform and VMware clients.  ? Performed UNIX monitoring, kernel tuning and Load balancing to ensure stable performance.  ? Monitored system access, managed file space, tuned the system for optimal performance and performed daily maintenance on Linux servers.  ? Used NAGIOS monitoring system for CPU, memory, IDE/SCSI disks, disk controllers, RAID and Network parameters.  Environment: Linux RHEL 5/6/7, SUSE Linux 10/11, HP ProLiant DL-380, DL-580 G6/G7, DL-680 G7/G8, VM-WARE ESX 5.x, Puppet, AWS, Jenkins, SVN, GIT, Shell Scripting, python scripting, Networking, WEBLOGIC Server 5.1 & 6.0 System Administrator Tech Vortex - NP October 2013 to December 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Performed installation, configuration, and management of Red hat 5.x, 6.x, VMware ESX 4.x, Virtual Center 2.x, HP-UX and AIX systems.  ? Implemented configuration management to existing infrastructure through Puppet, Puppet Dashboard, and Puppet DB. Automatically added/removed nodes through Puppet.  ? Used deploying Nagios.  ? Performed Network deployment, extension deployment on Red hat Linux by administering WebSphere application.  ? Updated YUM repository and Red hat Package Manager (RPM).  ? Worked on writing scripts for user administration, automation, system maintenance, security management and gathered information using Pearl, Shell (Korn, Shell, Bash).  ? Implemented RAID (0/1/5) and disk mirroring using SVM/LVM/VxVM.  ? Worked on installation, configuration, and administration of HP service Guard, Veritas cluster server and Red Hat Cluster Suite.  ? Solved tickets related to hardware and software, including configuration of new server and assigned jobs to related person.  ? Configured WebSphere, WebLogic and Apache server; and Tomcat server with Java application tools on Red Hat and HP UNIX server's environment.  ? Installed/Configured/Managed Jenkins CI Automation.  ? Created multiple instances in AWS cloud for the migration of application from physical data center to AWS.  ? Installed Puppet client certificates in Puppet Master and configured Manifests, Modules, site.pp files in Puppet.  ? Configured Puppet Server for monitoring and installing Puppet Agents in multiple Perform automated user management, installation and configuration of various services and backup-using Puppet.  ? Used Git for version control and sub versioning.  ? Used Logical Volume Manager (LVM) commands for configuring volume groups and logical volumes, extending volume groups for file system growth.  ? Used Kickstart for Installing and configuring Red Hat Linux and booting from SAN.  ? Managed multi patching at boot level and OS level using EMC power path and HDS HDLM.  ? Managed Kickstart process by configuring Install server, configuration server and boot server and performed Kickstart to install OS on several workstations.  ? Setting up configuration server and Boot server for Kickstart using tape-recover for file system recovery.  ? Used VMware 4/5 templates; Created and cloned Linux virtual machine; Migrated servers between ESX hosts.  ? Used Crontab for automated repetitive jobs and Shell Scripts.  ? Worked on 24x7 support for production and development environments and involved in finding root cause analysis of recurring issues, system backup, and security setup.  Environment: Red Hat Enterprise Server (RHEL 5,6), HPUX-11i,11.x,10.x, ESX/ESXi, EMC Clarion, Puppet, Jenkins, AWS, Maven, ANT, VMware 4.X, Tomcat/Apache, JBoss. Unix/Linux Administrator Smile Technology - NP September 2012 to September 2013 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Installed, configured and managed RHEL 5.x/6.x and SUSE 10.x/11. x.  ? Worked on using Red Hat Satellite Server for applying/updating patches to server and configured Kickstart server.  ? Used SSH, Telnet and Rlogin for remote system administration.  ? Performed hardware and operating system upgrades, and periodical patch upgrades.  ? Used Crontab and Autosys for automation of Jobs.  ? Assembled Puppet Master, Agent, and Database servers on multiple RedHat Enterprise Linux Platforms.  ? Designed Puppet Modules to manage configurations and automate installation process.  ? Maintained system integrity using support packages and patches.  ? Worked on controlling, analysis and monitoring the disk space usage on systems.  ? Monitored and fined tuned system parameters and configuration to ensure the security and performance of the systems.  ? Performed installation and configuration of Sendmail.  ? Exposed to work on GIT for version control.  ? Performed 'ndd', 'traceroute', 'netstat', 'ifconfig' and 'snoop' etc. to trouble shooting network.  ? Used service management facility and service administration for management and monitoring of various services.  ? Enabled communication with application and Oracle 10g servers through configuration of Firewall rules on new servers.  ? Worked on fine tuning of servers and network configuration for optimal performance.  ? Tracked user requirements through team meetings, designed the plans and steps to solve the issue after user's approval.  ? Used TCP/IP, NIS, NFS, DNS, SNMP agents, DHCP and proxy for setting network environment.  ? Performed installation, maintenance and administration of Oracle and Db2 server on Sun Servers.  ? Performed network configuration, resolved permission issues, user and group quota, password setup, user and group login ID setup and gave printing parameters.  ? Monitored VERITAS Cluster Server 5.0 in SAN environment.  ? Helped in creating and maintaining user profiles, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring.  ? Created new groups, then tested them in development and QA boxes and, implemented the same in production boxes.  Environment: Red Hat Linux AS/EL 5.0, AIX 5.3, Sun E10k, E25K, E4500, SunFire V440/880, DMX 3 & DMX4, SiteMinder, Sonic MQ 7.0, VxFS 4.1, VxVM 4.1, SVM Education Master's Degree in Business Administration in Business Administration Tribhuvan University 2011 Bachelor's Degree in Accounting in Accounting Tribhuvan University 2007 Skills Aix, Red hat, Shell programming, Nfs, Docker, Git, Html, Jenkins, Perl, Php, Python, Ruby, Svn, Xml, Chef, Devops, Dns, Puppet, Tcp/ip, nginx