Data entry Data entry Customer service call center Houston, TX Highly proficient in customer service and data entry. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data entry Active Data Online - Houston, TX April 2018 to February 2019 • Increased customer retention and satisfaction by closely monitored team member performance and assessing problematic practices.  • Directed training of new team members and mentored each to promote productivity, accuracy and friendly service.  • Coached team members in customer service techniques, providing feedback and encouragement toward reaching sales goals. Answering Service Operator Texas Messaging - Houston, TX July 2016 to February 2018 • Ensured a high level of customer service through a friendly and polite demeanor.  • Answered incoming calls, greeted callers, provided information, and transferring calls to appropriate  parties.  • Determined customer needs by asking relevant questions and listening actively to the responses.  • Answered customer telephone calls promptly and in an appropriate manner.    E Network Systems Administrator Houston Community College - Houston, TX 2018 to 2018 C  Microsoft Certified Application Specialist (MCAS)  Computer Training Certificate Education Diploma Alief Taylor Highschool - Houston, TX 2009 Skills Data Entry, Typing, Data-Entry, Data Entry Operator, Excel, Customer Service, Word Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) August 2012 to Present Assessments Data Entry — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to accurately input data and effectively manage databases. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pdkjdmxxifwi2jxf Merchandise & Supply Storage — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply systematic processes for managing and storing products and merchandise. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wgwgqdk-w7buwwzd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • 45 Wpm with accuracy  • 10 + years customer service call center  • Organization and proficient  • General clerical and office machinery