Senior Technical Manager Senior Technical Manager Senior Technical Manager - Network Security Operations Center Winchester, VA To obtain a technical management; or Engineering opportunity which allows me to utilize and employ developed leadership abilities, vast experience, strong work ethic, and managerial and technical proficiency. Work Experience Senior Technical Manager Salient CRGT - Fairfax, VA January 2017 to Present Contract Supporting the Department of Veteran's Affairs located in Martinsburg, WV)    • Monitor system performance and implement performance tuning  • Coordinate planning, design, and installation of equipment using engineering expertise.  • Supervise and provide mentorship and guidance to Tier II and Tier III Network Security Operation Center (NSOC) teams.  • Install new and refreshed network security hardware and software technological systems.  • Configure and implement IPSEC Virtual Private Networks (VPN).  • Enforce Government Contractor, Network Operation Center (NOC), intra and inter- team policies and performance standards.  • Configure and implement Palo Alto Application Firewall security policies.  • Work with various Cloud Service Providers (CSP), NOC, and Enterprise teams to deploy new Cloud connections and implement requests.  • Deploy and configure Cisco Adaptive Security Appliance 5500 series appliances.  • Assign responsibilities and monitor project and task status.  • Assess employee capabilities and recommend training to encourage growth.  • Troubleshoot various models and IOS platforms of virtual and physical Cisco routers and switching hardware.  • Administer BigIP F5 GTM DNS and LTM load-balancing to ensure resource availability.  • Participate in system conceptual design and documentation.  • Collaborate with architectural engineering teams to transition new and upgraded network and security solutions to operational teams, by assisting with the design, testing, and implementation of new or refreshed technology in a large government enterprise network.  • Provide Tier III level support for supported network and security systems, to include in depth analysis and troubleshooting using network sniffers and other network management tools.  • Interact daily with Program Management and the Government Customer to interpret their needs and requirements.  • Maintain existing and develop intra and inter-team processes and procedures to improve operability and communication.  • Maintain and create system knowledge articles to include network flow diagrams, documents, etc.  • Facilitate and participate in Management meetings for project and task status briefing.  • Review deliverables and initiate appropriate action.  • Provide after-hour technical management escalation during network outages, etc.  • Participate in Change Management technical assessment review meetings.  • Oversee approved maintenance implementation for network security devices and application change orders.  • Manage team to effectively remediate customer service requests.  • Assist with compliance reporting and remediation.  • Multitask to handle multiple concurrent tasks and projects.  • Deployment and configuration of Cisco Firepower 4100 and 9300 chassis and security modules. Network Engineer/ Systems Administrator CACI BITS - Sterling, VA September 2016 to January 2017 • Deployment, implementation and configuration of Cradlepoint routers  • Deployment, implementation and configuration of Cisco ASA 5515x, and 5506x appliances  • Configuration and Implementation of Cisco ASA Site to Site IPSEC VPN  • Extensive troubleshooting of IPSEC Site to Site VPN  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Hughes BGAN satellite terminals  • Linux server administration  • Linux server and workstation build and deployment  • Deployment, implementation and configuration of Cisco 2960x and 3850x switches Network Engineer Information Innovators Inc - Springfield, VA October 2012 to September 2016 NEDIIS Contract Supporting the Department of Veteran's Affairs located in Martinsburg, WV)    • Assistant Team Lead experience with duties to include management meeting facilitation, direct communication with Customers and Project Director, ensuring team accountability, delegation of duties, etc.  • Experience with the Riverbed Steelhead/Interceptor devices  • Configuration of Riverbed Steelhead/Interceptor Load-Balancing/In-Path Rules  • Implementation of Riverbed Steelhead/interceptor RIOS upgrade  • Experience troubleshooting Riverbed Steelheads/Interceptors  • Experience with the Citrix NetScaler and configuration of Citrix Web Interface Xenapp sites  • Experience troubleshooting Citrix Netscaler/Web Interface device  • Configuration of Citrix Netscaler Services, Service-Groups, Policies, Actions, and VIPS  • Knowledge of Cisco Identity Services Engine functionality/configuration  • Knowledge of Cisco ACS functionality/configuration  • Experience with the Cisco Adaptive Security Appliance 5500 series  • In-depth knowledge of Cisco ASA 5500 code versions 8.2, 8.4 and 9.x.  • Configuration and Implementation of Cisco ASA site to site IPSEC VPN  • Extensive troubleshooting of Site to Site VPN  • Implementation and modification of access rules and policies  • Knowledge of Cisco Remote-Access SSL, ikev1, ikev2, and IPSEC VPN solutions configuration/functionality  • Experience troubleshooting Cisco Remote-Access VPN  • Experience troubleshooting Cisco ASA's, Cisco Routers, and routing protocols to include but not limited to; BGP and OSPF  • Monitored HP Openview, Solar Winds, and Splunk to ensure the health and status of approximately 135 devices  • Provide technical support for Veterans Affairs employees and vendors  • Write documentation of new technical procedures for team members Systems Administrator/Network Engineer Potomac Fusion, Inc - Chantilly, VA February 2011 to October 2012 • Redhat DHCP and Apache web server configuration  • Redhat Bind configuration experience  • Creation and Administration of Redhat users and groups  • Experience with package installations, patch and other server management.  • In-depth knowledge of LAN, MAN, and WAN  • Configuration, implementation, troubleshooting, testing and management of Cisco Networking devices including but not limited to Cisco ASA firewall 5500 series, Layer2/Layer3 switches, Wireless Access Points, and Cisco IPS  • Configuration of Cisco ASA site to site VPN IPSEC Tunnels  • Configuration of Windows Server 2003, 2008 and 2008R2 Domain Controllers, group policy management, managing user accounts, assigning user and group permissions, etc.  • DNS, DHCP and IIS administration  • Avaya phone systems management  • Installation and Configuration of Microsoft Windows Server 2003, 2008, and 2008R2  • Installation and Configuration of Redhat, CentOS, Ubuntu and Fedora operating systems  • Installation, deployment and troubleshooting of Dell and HP Servers  • Configuration of Dell, Toshiba, Sony and Macintosh desktops and laptops  • Sysprep and create/backup and restore system images with Acronis  • Configuration and troubleshooting of network printers and personal printers  • Perform routine network maintenance  • Administered VMWare ESXI 4.0-5.x, and vSphere for creation and deployment of virtual machines etc.  • Allocated resources to newly deployed VMWare ESXI virtual machines.  • Uploaded ISO files to the VMWare ESXI data store.  • Configured VLANs on the VMWare ESXI VSwitch and assigned interfaces.  • Installation of KVM switches and consoles  • Rack server and PDU installation  • Responsible for the repair, upgrade/maintenance of desktops, laptops/servers  • Installation and Configuration of Microsoft Windows XP/ Vista /7 and 8 Home Premium, Professional and Ultimate  • Installation of Microsoft Office Suites 2007/2010 etc.  • IA Security System auditing Jr. System Administrator E & J Electronics - Manassas, VA October 2009 to February 2011 • Responsible for the repair/maintenance/installation of desktops and servers.  • Responsible for pre-installation of business servers for site deployment; relating to File Servers, Active Directory, IIS, and DNS.  • Installation and configuration of Cisco switches and routers.    References are available upon request. Education Bachelor's Degree Western Governors University Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Infrastructure design, Router, Vmware, Dns, Exchange, Iis, Security, Sharepoint, Deployment, Routing protocols, Ios, Apache, Linux, Unix, Unix/linux, Backup exec, Oracle Certifications/Licenses CCNA Security CCNP Security CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Security+ ITIL CCNA Additional Information SKILLS    Supervisory and leadership experience.    Excellent time management and organizational skills    Strong communication, critical thinking, multitasking, troubleshooting, leadership and customer service skills    Customer service oriented    Network Infrastructure Design and Implementation    Solid Knowledge of Routing Protocols    Cisco Switch administration and configuration of various layer two (2) and layer three (3) switch platforms    Cisco Router administration and configuration    Cisco Adaptive Security Appliance (ASA) 5500 series IOS Configuration    Installation, Configuration and Deployment of VMWARE ESXI, VSPHERE, and VCENTER    Installation and Configuration of Microsoft Office Suites 2003/2007/2010/2013/2016    Installation and Configuration of Microsoft Windows 98/NT/2000/XP/  Vista /7/8/8.1/10    SharePoint Administration  Active Directory Deployment and Administration  Installation and    Configuration of Microsoft Server 2008, 2008R2, 2012 and 2016    Exchange 2003/2007 Deployment and Administration    DNS and IIS Configuration and Deployment    Administration of Citrix NetScaler appliances    Hardware and software diagnostic and repair    Experience with VMWare ESXI, Workstation, Player, and Oracle VirtualBox    Experience with Unix/Linux    Experience with Apache    Experience with Symantec Backup Exec    Experience with Video Teleconferencing System (VTC) Equipment