VMware Automation Consultant VMware Automation Consultant VMware Automation Consultant - Kaiser Permanente Pleasanton, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience VMware Automation Consultant Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA June 2018 to Present • Administration and Maintenance of Windows based network of over 300+ Physical & Virtual servers build with Windows 2000, 2003 & 2008 operating systems & ESX 3.0 & 3.5 host system.  • Worked with VMware Orchestrator, VMware vRealize Automation 6.2 (vRA), Catalog management, creating cloud server provisioning entitlements, creating and defining business groups, creating catalogue items, creating services for the catalog items, creating windows and Linux Red hat blueprints.  • Designed and Deployed services development efforts including Cloud Automation (vRA), Performance and Capacity (vROps), Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery (SRM), Virtualization, Health Check, and Virtualization Assessment (vSphere) services in Cloud Automation  • Configuring and managing WSUS services for server and client patch management.  • Configuring maintaining, managing and administrating server consolidation program through use of VMware ESX server 3.0 & 3.5, VMware Virtual Center Server 2.X, VIC (Virtual Infrastructure Client), VMware converter.  • Responsible for Installing, configuring Virtual Infrastructure environment using ESX 3.X, VCS, HA, DRS and VMotion.  • Experience with upgrading ESX 3.0 to ESX 3.5 also using VMware update manager to install patches and updates on ESX host and virtual machines.  • Designed and developed specific databases for collection, tracking and reporting of data.  • Working with designing team for performance monitoring processes and improved disaster recovery processes to utilize virtualization benefits.  • Responsible for optimizing system performance which includes input/output, disk storage, CPU usage, memory allocation, disk throughput, network traffic, uptime and maintenance cost by monitoring current performance, analyzing possible problems/solutions and performing indicated modifications.  • Responsible for the 24 X 7 data center operations such as rack installation, server configuration, server health monitoring, switch installation etc  • Implementing and configuring VMware Virtual Infrastructure cluster running on Dell Power Edge Servers, dell blade server and an EMC2 CX340 & EMC2 - CX300 storage array.  • Maintain a disaster recovery plan by documenting current system configuration, identifying, analyzing, and evaluating critical data/hardware issues and documentation and testing plan.  • Troubleshooting and supporting entire physical and virtualization infrastructure.  • Coordinate and monitor to isolate and diagnose common system problem: document system events to ensure continuous functioning. Recommend course of action and implement as approved.  • Maintaining Windows Server 2003 & 2008 enterprise and web servers for supporting web hosting & databases, troubleshooting IIS 6.0 issues. Maintaining server uptime, system maintenance, and troubleshooting active or potential issues with the use of various monitoring tools.  • Responsible to provide day-to-day technical support of 1000+ client using the distributed and remote environment also support all windows/Linux/VMware related technical issues.  • Follow up with end client and preferred vendor to meet the request is serviced in appropriate and timely manner.  • Implementing and administration Active Directory services, replication, Trust Relationship and enforcing Domain Wide Group Policies.  • Hands on experience of converting & migrating guest machine from physical machine to virtual (P2V) and Virtual to Virtual (V2V) by using VMware converter & Plate spin.  • Configured & administered the enterprise Anti-virus, ant-spam and packet filtering solutions using Symantec Antivirus corporate edition and LANDesk. System Administrator Republic Plastics - San Antonio, TX May 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:    • Working with designing team for performance monitoring processes and improved disaster recovery processes to utilize virtualization benefits.  • Building new servers daily in legacy VMware from 2003 to 2008, and Hyper-V for applications those are ready to move to new Dynamic Data Center.  • Responsible for optimizing system performance which includes input/output, disk storage, CPU usage, memory allocation, disk throughput, network traffic, uptime and maintenance cost by monitoring current performance, analyzing possible problems/solutions and performing indicated modifications.  • Responsible for the 24 X 7 data center operations such as rack installation, server configuration, server health monitoring, switch installation etc  • Maintain a disaster recovery plan by documenting current system configuration, identifying, analyzing, and evaluating critical data/hardware issues and documentation and testing plan.  • Troubleshooting and supporting entire physical and virtualization infrastructure.  • Coordinate and monitor to isolate and diagnose common system problem: document system events to ensure continuous functioning. Recommend course of action and implement as approved.  • Maintaining Windows Server 2003 & 2008 enterprise and web servers for supporting web hosting & databases, troubleshooting IIS 6.0 issues. Maintaining server uptime, system maintenance, and troubleshooting active or potential issues with the use of various monitoring tools.  • Support existing web servers, including building and configuring new web servers with IIS 6.0, setting up FTP sites and other requests from customers.  • Managing and constructing all variations of SQL views and Access queries -- update, insert into/from, delete, inner and out joins, to manage data.  • Create DTS routines (objects and scripts) to transfer data from Access to SQL and to other sources.  • Seamlessly transitioned AWS infrastructure from EC2-Classic to VPC, overhauled AWS accounts to follow latest security best practices, reduced AWS costs by over 30%, and wrote documentation.  • Migrated applications from a physical data center environment to AWS. Designed, built, and deployed a multitude applications utilizing almost all of the AWS Systems Administrator Energizer Holdings September 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the implementation of Active Directory Services, security, access control, site replication and Multi Domain forests architecture on the Windows 2000/2003 server.  • Implemented and maintained new Virtual Infrastructure using HP servers also designed, configured and managed VMware Vmotion HA, DRS.  • Installing and configuring Redhat Enterprise server for development team.  • As per the requirement of the company I had been provided all types of technical support to the company, which includes marinating LAN & WAN connectivity and other required services on win2k professional, XP, Vista, 2000 server and advance server and Windows 2003 series.  • Troubleshoot ESX host, Guest OS and VCS using Command Line Interface utility (CLI), also responsible for backup and restore ESX host system and guest operating system using plate spin tools.  • Perform daily backup operations, ensuring all required file systems and system data are successfully backed up to the appropriate media, recovery tapes or disks are created, and media is recycled and sent off site as necessary.  • Responsible for migrate and replicate existing physical server and virtual server using HP Insight server migration.  • Identified and quickly resolved client SQL 2000/2005 server issue after several failed attempts by local contractors  • Managed SQL 2000 and 2005 database servers and their securities, also maintained and configured database on SQL servers. Windows Administrator Howard Hughes Corporation - Addison, TX July 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Planned and designed network topology infrastructure and created the blue print for Active Directory rollout and pilot testing for migration of Windows 2000 to 2003.  • Configured and tested site topology plan and a domain migration strategy.  • Tested build versions for Windows 2003 and Active Directory for all the domains.  • Configured, tested and deployed the Active Directory security cluster for group policy, security configuration, auditing, and security templates.  • Installed and configured of Active Directory services, which included setting up the global catalog, and deployment of FSMO Roles as per requirements.  • Created and maintained user account with changes in user allocation of resources like disk usage, file print access, and software installation.  • Configured, tested and deployed the inter-site replication with inter-site transport in all domain server and maintained performance under high concurrent users.  • Implementing highly automated Disaster Recovery for the Virtual environments with VMware Site Recovery Manager.  • Managing all aspects of the vSphere environments, troubleshooting and resolving configuration related VMware issues.  • Routine Operation process and service delivery automation with VMware Powercli.  • Fine tune VM configurations to achieve best performance/resource consumption based on Application characteristics and requirements. Systems Admin Emblem Health - New York, NY May 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Planned, installed, configured and managed MS Windows 2000/NT domain controller.  • Planned and implemented Group Policy Objects, assigned proper rights and permission to users for accessing files and directories within Active Directory.  • Managed networks and remotely supported users of several clients.  • Planned, installed and managed MS Exchange Server 2000 with MS Outlook 2000.  • Migrated from Exchange Server 5.5 to Exchange Server 2000.  • Monitored network traffic, Anti-Virus, patches, security updates and managed load balance.  • Provided technical training, software and hardware support to network users.  • Used PC-Anywhere for dialing in at certain times for trouble-shooting problems.  • Installed, configured and maintained VERITAS Backup-Exec for daily backup/restore issues. VMware consultant AAA Insurance - Dearborn, MI March 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Implemented domain and local policies, implemented GPOs using WMI & ADSI Scripting, software deployment, configured mandatory roaming profiles, and managed users at a domain level.  • Installed, configured, administered Windows 2003 Servers, SMS 2003 primary server sites and clients to 800+ systems across North America  • Created user accounts and group policies and also troubleshoot the existing GPOs.  • Responsible for configured and managed ESX host system and new virtual machine according to the requirement of the company also troubleshoot Virtual Machine using, clone, migrate and snapshot functionality.  • Research and evaluate new technologies, products, and services, and recommend acquisitions and modifications as per client application needs.  • Monitored network performance in order to determine whether adjustments needed to be made, and to determine where changes will need to be made in the future.  • Responsible for performing database backup and restore, replication and performance tuning.  • Responsible for configuring and maintaining Exchange Mail Server and Internet Information server, FTP & SFTP Server and VPN server on Windows 2000/2003 Platform.  • Configured, hosted and maintained required internal and external websites through IIS 5.0/6.0 as well as chat server using wildfire open source.  • Configured and Managed VMware server technology for managing windows based network environment.  • Servers consisted of clustered Exchange 2003, Windows 2000 Advanced Server, File, Application, and Database.  • Maintained test environment, and interfaced with other user support organization to assist in rollout of new product releases.  • Worked with contractors and subcontractors that provided cooling, electrical, fire protection, telecommunications, and security, cleaning, and cabling services for each of these Data Centers.  • Configured Symantec Antivirus corporate edition for secure the entire network. VMware consultant Mechanics Bank - Walnut Creek, CA February 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Installing, configuring and maintaining the VMware ESX 3.x / Virtual Center 2.x servers.  • Creating, Installing, configuring and maintaining the Virtual Machines, installing Guest Operating Systems like Windows, Linux.  • Managing all aspects of the vSphere environments, troubleshooting and resolving configuration related VMware issues  • Used VMware vCenter, created Datacenter Environment by creating VMware clusters, adding ESX hosts in the clusters, and implemented HA and DRS.  • VMotion configuration & troubleshooting. Assisted and documented the operational history, disaster recovery scenarios and the procedure to recover the data being replicated by snap mirror at the remote site.  • Performed physical to virtual (P2V) migrations for approximately 500  physical servers utilizing VMware Converter.  • Backup & Restore management of the Virtual Machines.  • Network Configuration on ESX servers which include Bonds & VLANs.  • Performance monitoring & tuning.  • Scheduling of backups and System security. Preventive maintenance. Education Bachelor's Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, Systems administration, Tcp