Detailer Detailer Detailer - Nucor Building Systems San Diego, CA Increase efficiency, creativity, and productivity as a part - time IT technician using my 6 years of  experience as a systems administrator in the USAF and invaluable people skills gained  from 12 years of customer service. Work Experience Detailer Nucor Building Systems 2017 to Present Translated engineering designs for steel buildings, in combination with customer contracts, into readable sets  of blueprints and 3D models using Tekla and CAD.  • Checked other detailer drawings for mistakes or missing information to achieve the highest quality product  possible, all while modeling my own jobs and adhering to a rapid schedule.    Skills: Customer Service  • Troubleshot with 100s customers experiencing IT related issues for 5+ years.    Leadership  • Lead teams for software patch installs, vulnerability elimination projects, and server  builds.    Technical  • Worked in IT for 5+ years utilizing Excel, Power Point, Word, VMWare, Configuration  Control Management Server, Net Backup Servers, Email Servers, Administrative Role  Servers, and Symantec.  • Proficient in AutoCAD, CAD Civil, Inventor, Revit, SolidWorks, and Tekla. Cyber Systems Administrator United States Air Force 2012 to 2017 • Provided guidance on troubleshooting network, server, and end-user applications issues.  • Successfully built/configured servers and maintained an entire weapons system's security.  • Oversaw a 450 asset IT account worth $2.5M, resolving 50 discrepancies and maintained  100% accountability in the process.  • Averted outage and damage to $100M of equipment by implementing disaster procedures  during a server room overheat. Student Central Carolina Technical College 2012 to 2017 Designed 3 houses (interior, exterior, & floor plans), one of which was a shipping crate home for an actual  costumer.  • Designed a 7 lot cul-de-sac neighborhood adhering to city regulations, fit with sewage and electrical work. United States Air Force - Shaw AFB, SC 2011 to 2017 Education Associates Degree in Engineering Graphics Technology in S+ Certified Central Carolina Technical College - Sumter, SC 2017 Skills CAD, AUTOCAD, SOLIDWORKS, NET BACKUP, VMWARE, SYMANTEC, EXCEL, WORD, CUSTOMER SERVICE