Sr Production Support Analyst/ Automation Engineer Sr Production Support Analyst/ Automation Engineer Sr Production Support Analyst/ Automation Engineer - CORELOGIC Lewisville, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Production Support Analyst/ Automation Engineer CORELOGIC - Dallas, TX December 2016 to Present ? Clear knowledge of LOS systems and the flow of the applications and defining the ownerships.  ? Ability to write, review and execute the script to the database.  ? Ability to streamline applications delivery to get application releases out to customers faster and reliable.  ? Day to day activates involve Enterprise system architecture, system backups, Restore/recovery clustering and load balancing concepts.  ? Performed System Software Installation and monitored server’s health check on different servers.  ? Analyze key network infrastructure assets for planning of corporation wide infrastructure upgrade to TLS1.2 on the network side.  ? Extensive Installing, configuring and maintaining Continuous Integration, Configuration Management tools.  ? Involved in collecting SAR data for all production servers in active datacenter for cpu, memory to submit to PCI audit.  ? Involved in automating infrastructure related tasks using cloud formation.  ? Experience in working with Ellie Mae application and in-depth understanding of LOS Systems.  ? Coordinated with SAN team for storage allocations and disk dynamic multipathing.  ? Attend status calls and update them every step of deployment and involve multiple teams and drive the call until resolved.  ? Established runbooks for each exercise to assure that the failover procedures were accurate and repeatable and that the associated risks were minimized.  ? Implemented a redesigned review process for business continuity test plans to ensure that all test plans were meaningful and correct.  ? Extensity used F5 load balancer for showing th patterns of application usage.  ? Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, Elastic Load Balancer, Identity Access Management using cloud formation.  ? Validate and coordinate procedures to ensure all Business impact analysis(BIA) and DR plans are updated and working.  ? Monitoring & Identifying System Performance issues, System Tuning, System Security, Disaster and Crash Recovery Planning.  ? Acted as lead in DR test that tests the connectivity between application at DR and the database to ensure RTO and RPO objectives were met.  ? Worked on ESX host issue where multiple clients were affected with NIC cards being faulty and stabilized the environment by moving affected VMs to different host.  ? Production Support Analyst supporting Production, Training, Prod Mirror, Prod Staging environments.  ? Helped in driving production incidents to resolution as part of support engagement.   ? Created alarms, monitors and notifications for EC2 instances using amazon Cloud Watch.  ? Handled production releases for Prime lending, PNC, US Bank, Bank of America, Fifth third every month. Linux Administrator YANKEE CANDLES COMPANY - South Deerfield, MA March 2015 to October 2016 ? Performed day-to-day system administration tasks like Logical Volume management, user management, space monitoring, performance monitoring and tuning cpu, memory, alert log monitoring.  ? Installations & Upgrading RPM and yum packages, including patching.  ? Performed building up OVM and SystemVerilog test environments from scratch.  ? Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle SOA, WebLogic 10.x and Oracle 10g on Red Hat Linux.  ? Configuring various Hardware level RAIDS on Dell Blade Server (Power Edge 860 & 2850 series).  ? Installing, configuration and troubleshooting network routers, switches, load balancers, and security devices.  ? Worked and performed data-center operations including rack mounting, cabling.  ? Managed both Windows, Linux, SQL, NAS client backups using CommVault backup.  ? Responsible for problem identification and resolution of failed processes/jobs and assisted users in troubleshooting issues with their applications.  ? Installing, configuring, stop and start scripts as Service for various 3rd party applications apache/HTTPD, Tomcat, java, oracle client and WebLogic.  ? Implemented code builds and automated deployment procedures.  ? Installed puppet agents on Linux servers and configure to communicate with Master Puppet server.  ? Install and configure OVM 3.3. on Linux, SuSE, setup all oracle products, tune, setup SAN, network VLAN.  ? Strong understanding of Data Modeling in data warehouse environment such as star, snow schema.  ? Identifying and constructing new process frameworks, and involved in reviewing, recommending and documenting improvements to established processes.  ? Extensively installed and configured VNC to manage users and LVM’s on 450 servers.  ? Automated system configuration using Puppet.   ? Manage system administration Incident Tickets, Requests, Change Request using Heat ticketing tool.  ? Experience in using veritas volume manager and creating new file systems, mounting file systems and un-mounting file systems.  ? Monitoring server, application health and performance tuning via various stat commands like vmstat, nfsstat, iostat and tuned I/O.   ? Handled setting up of HP ProLiant hardware in the data center, KVM and OS installation.  ? Configured HP Blade DL460 by ILo & Onboard Administration and HP Insight Manager.  ? Configured Firewall to permissive mode on Linux servers to get access to VNC and cloud database.  ? Independently provided customer support by troubleshooting, upgrading, and problem solving for the standard software on standalone servers, network and shipboard systems to provide increased system performance and capacity. Linux Systems Administrator AETNA - Hartford, CT November 2012 to January 2015 ? Performed day-to-day administration tasks like user management, space monitoring, performance monitoring and tuning, alert log monitoring and backup monitoring.  ? Extensively used JIRA a proprietary Issue, Request tracking product, mainly developed by Atlassian.  ? Scratch build and configuring Virtual and Physical Linux servers on VMWare v6, vSphere Client 6.  ? Performed server and network hardware rack and stack in our data center and installed connections to all the networks.  ? Set up Linux servers for LAMP implementations and readiness.  ? Decent knowledge in creating and launching EC2 instances using AMI’s of Linux, Ubuntu, RHEL, and wrote shell scripts to bootstrap instance.  ? Managed Windows user, group, workstation accounts and network applications with Active Directory.  ? Hands on Experience with HP Service Manager and BMC Remedy ticketing tools used for Customization and Tailoring of HP ServiceManager, on Request Management and Change Management modules of HP Service Manager.  ? Reviewed and recommended ITIL process improvements.  ? Worked on resolving production issues and documenting Root Cause Analysis and updating the tickets using BMC Remedy.  ? Performed automated installations of Operating System using kick start for Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5/6.  ? Provides accurate root cause analysis and comprehensive action plans. Works closely with hw/sw vendor support teams to resolve problems quickly.   ? Fixing the OS Patching related issue, pre and post patching validation.  ? Developed several scripts in bash and KSH to automate the manual process.  ? Resource (CPU, Memory, Disk) allocation to the VM's and Physical Servers.  ? Experience in configuration and troubleshooting network areas related to Ethernet, netstat, NFS, nslookup, TCP/IP, and tcpdump generation. UNIX/Linux Administrator KOHL'S CORPORATE OFFICE - Menomonee Falls, WI March 2010 to October 2012 ? Installation, configuration and administration of 200+ Red Hat Linux servers and support for servers.  ? Built virtualized Hyper-V Linux servers on ESXi, VSphere and Blade servers to host multiple applications on same chassis across different server hosts.  ? Performs Linux Administrator tasks like file systems, LVM, user management, load balancing issues on server.  ? Installed, configured and maintained DHCP server.  ? Worked and fixing the Security PCI and SOX audit complaints requirements.  ? Installed, configured and maintained HTTPD server for Intranet specifications.  ? Deployed scripts, packages and other automation tasks via Puppet.  ? Ensured and maintained the stability of POP, POP3, SMTP, Sendmail & IMAP mail servers.  ? Installing and Configuring Red Hat Linux in VMWare Environment.  ? Responsible for ensuring data center availability and reliability of multiple data center to meet the requirements of data operations.  ? Configuring, Implementing and Troubleshooting access lists.  ? Installing & Configuring VPN clients.  ? Responsible for designing, administrating creating and documenting the new ACL policies enterprise LDAP.  ? Configuring Samba, NFS, and DHCP server in Linux & Windows.  ? Configuring FTP server and Apache Web Server on Red Hat Enterprise Linux.  ? Troubleshooting Linux network, security related issues, capturing packets using tools such as IPtables, firewall, TCP wrappers.  ? Use Linux rescue mode to correct the problems in file systems.  ? Preparing the centralized log server for all Linux clients.  ? Preparing centralized installation server comprising FTP, Web server and NFS.  ? Manage daily system administration Incident Tickets, Requests, Change Request Quest (CRQ) using BMC Remedy. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Sree Vidyanikethan Engineering College - Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh April 2006 to August 2010 Skills LINUX (9 years), RED HAT (9 years), NFS (6 years), SQL (4 years), Devops (2 years), Incident Management (3 years), AWS (2 years), Active Directory, Linux Administrator, System Administrator, Redhat, Vmware, System Admin, SCCM Awards Feature in my Cap 2018-05 Additional Information ? Over 9 years of experience as a Unix/Linux system administrator in complex high-end server/client environment consisting multi-operating systems (Red Hat Linux and IBM AIX environment).  ? Design, installation, configuration, maintenance, and troubleshooting of servers running on RHEL 6.x/5.x/4.0, IBM AIX 7.1/6.1/5.x, and Windows NT/2000/2003 servers.  ? Performance & Capacity planning to meet the growing requirements of the applications.  ? Enterprise Systems Architecture, System Backups, Restore/Recovery, Clustering and Load Balancing concepts.  ? Performed testing that is used to reduce risks that are related to speed, scalability, and stability.  ? Extensive hands on experience in Analysis, Planning, Configuring, Administering, maintenance of various types of UNIX flavors (AIX, Red Hat, CentOS) and other Web Technologies.   ? Experience in integrating Nagios with other monitoring/alert solutions for the server disk management.  ? Provided production support in an on-call L3 rotation in a 24x7 environment.  ? Experience as a scrum master as a part of Agile methodology is software development life cycle.  ? Manages Windows network (users, computers, printers, etc) with Active Directory.  ? Expertise in Red Hat Satellite Server installation, Red Hat Linux Kick start, System Imager, SUSE Autoyast and Jumpstart in Linux, Solaris.  ? Ensured all artifacts were complied with corporate Software Development Life Cycle Policies and guidelines.  ? Extensively worked on hard disk mirroring and stripe with parity using RAID controllers.  ? Experience using configuration management/ systems automation at scale using Puppet.  ? Hands on experience in a Linux environment with Apache Tomcat on Amazon AWS.  ? Technical professional with Management skills, excellent business knowledge and strong communication skills.  ? Involved on Incident Management and Change Management modules of HP Service Manager.  ? Involved in creating the targeted questionnaire for SMEs and Business users for elaborating requirements.  ? Involved with a team that managed data center migration and involved in planning and inventory stages which are crucial.  ? Coordinated with SAN Team for storage allocation and Disk Dynamic Multi pathing, worked on Various SAN Products like EMC Symmetrix, Hitachi data systems.  ? Responsibilities included designing and developing new back-end services, maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure, and providing mentorship to others on my team.  ? Experience in managing various Network related tasks such as TCP/IP, NFS, DNS, DHCP and SMTP.  Creating and configuration of LPARs and using HMC, implemented micro-partitioning, virtualization and shared Ethernet. Experience in Hardware management console HMC administration and NIM installations of LPARs.