Systems Support Specialist II <span class="hl">Systems</span> Support Specialist II Systems Support Specialist II - The Mohegan Tribal Government New London, CT A highly skilled individual with +10 years of experience in the IT department. Heavily knowledgeable in the areas of in-depth troubleshooting of MS Exchange Servers and MS End Client Software. Performed remote desktop machine management and troubleshooting for multiple versions of Windows OS, Cisco and Avaya IP telephone systems. Able to provide local and remote support using various systems such as Dame Ware and Team Viewer. Provided exceptional Active Directory administration and maintenance as well as escalation notifications to all necessary departments. An Honorably Discharged United States Coast Guard Veteran with dedication to duty and distinguished service.    Qualifcations    Windows Server  Local/Wireless Network  Windows  MS Powershell  MS Office Suite  Azure Administration  Citrix XenApp  VMWare/VSphere  Active Directory  DNS  Desktop Support  Remote Resolution  Customer Service iOS    Recent Special Projects    @ Mitchell College:  ? Converted the organization from an On-Premises MS Exchange Server to a Hybrid Office 365 Hosted Exchange Server.  ? Architected the Google Classroom environment for Thames Academy on Mitchell College    @ A/Z Corp:  ? Maintained the standing Virtual Environment (VMWare) and added 60TB of Storage to the SAN    @ Astro -Med:  ? Migrated servers from MS Server 2008 and 2008R2 to Windows 2012R2  ? designed the Astro-Med VMWare ESX and EXSi Host and Citrix VDI solution.  ? Set up Hybrid Active Directory Environment for upcoming Office 365 / Hosted Exchange Implementation    @ Mohegan Tribal Government:  ? Migrated 402 Client PC's from Windows 7 OS to Windows 10 (1607) OS and Migrated the office package on said machines from MS office 2010 suite to MS Office Pro Plus 2016 suite.  ? Assisted with the Replacement of the SAN and the Standup of the VDI environment.  ? Office 365 / Exchange Administrator Work Experience Systems Support Specialist II The Mohegan Tribal Government April 2016 to Present Provide technical support for all 581 Mohegan Tribal Government end users and 503 Client systems.   Provide support and maintenance for the VDI Tribal Government environment.   Initial Juniper Switch and Wireless Network environment troubleshooting. Built and provided a test environment via VMWare.   MS Office 365 administration responsible for all aspects of Microsoft Office 365. Ordering and tracking hardware inventory and while maintaining good relations with various vendors.   Microsoft Azure Active Directory administration and maintenance. Systems Administrator / Systems Support Specialist Winter-Wyman Staffing March 2015 to April 2016 Provided technical support for Astro-Med users both local and remote troubleshooting Software and Hardware Issues for WIN 7 Machines and MAC OS X PC's. Asst. Network Admin, responsible for Active Directory entries and changes, Created a Hybrid MS Azure / On Premises Active Directory Structure, Cisco Systems Network Administrator. Troubleshooting and resolving IOS and Android, and Blackberry Phones. Windows Server 2008r2 and Windows Server 2012 R2. Monitor SCOM alerts for servers, applications, and internet connectivity. Systems Support Analyst Mac Support / Systems Administrator Mitchell College April 2014 to March 2015 Responsible for Juniper Network infrastructure. Provided level 2 / 3 technical support for the Mitchell College Campus aiding both students and staff members. Provided remote desktop machine management, troubleshooting and performing Windows 7 installations. Usage of Manage Engine and service Desk software for ticket documentation. Monitor SCOM alerts for servers and applications. Desktop Support / Help Desk analyst/ Local Systems Administrator Complete Staffing Solutions / FTD January 2014 to March 2014 Provide first and second line technical support to all Call Center staff and third Parties in the remote call center office. Troubleshot and fixed VPN connectivity issues, Software and operating system issues and provided end user usage assistance with the MS Office Suite. Provided initial WAN/LAN / Firewall Troubleshooting, Local Server Patching, Usage of Manage Engine software for ticket documentation. Active Directory administration and maintenance, in an Azure Hybrid Environment, Provide escalation notifications to the respective departments. Monitor Linux servers, Performed initial troubleshooting and resolution of Blackberry, Windows Phone, and iOS issues. Desktop Support /Service Desk Analyst Beazley Insurance September 2013 to January 2014 Provide first and second line technical support to all Beazley staff and third Parties in the local office located in Farmington CT and in remote locations. Troubleshot and fixed VPN connectivity issues, Software and operating system issues and also providing end user usage assistance with the MS Office Suite. Usage of Infra software for ticket documentation. Provide in depth troubleshooting of MS Exchange Servers, and MS Outlook Client Software. Citrix XenApp and AppSense. Help Desk Technician Senior Assistant Computer Sciences Corp April 2011 to June 2013 Troubleshot and fixed VPN connectivity, Software and operating system issues and providing end user usage assistance. Provided initial Cisco WAN/LAN / Firewall Troubleshooting, SAP GUI installation and troubleshooting, to the server level. Usage of remote support tools (Bomgar Rep Console). Usage of Remedy software for ticket documentation. Education Housatonic Community College - Bridgeport, CT Associates Degree in engineering Center for the Media Arts - New York, NY Information Technology/Leadership/Project Management Anne Arundel Community College Skills Vmware, Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin