Sr. DevOps/Linux Systems Administrator Sr. DevOps/Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. DevOps/Linux Systems Administrator - Charter Communications St. Louis, MO • Over 7+ years of experience specialized in System Administration working on UNIX and Linux (Redhat and SuSE), VMware and Windows environments.  • Performed Installation, Updating, Patches, Migration, Configured, Troubleshooting, Security, Backup, Disaster Recovery, Performance Monitoring and Fine-tuning on UNIX (Red Hat Linux and AIX) Systems.  • Administration of RHEL 6.x, 7.x, CentOS, Suse and Linux 7 which includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading and loading patches, troubleshooting both physical and virtual server issues.  • Installation and configuration of AppDynamics Controllers on various environments like Dev, Model and Prod.  • Maintained and managed assigned systems, Splunk related issues and administrators  • Developed Splunk Search Processing Language (SPL) queries, created Reports, Alerts and Dashboards and customized them.  • Setup Splunk Forwarders for new application levels brought into environment.  • Created advanced Dashboards, alerts, advanced Splunk searches and visualization in Splunk.  • Configuration, Backup, Recovery, Maintenance in Linux (SuSE & Redhat), AIX.  • Highly experienced in installing, upgrading, configuring and Troubleshooting IBM WebSphere and Application Server 8.0 and 8.5, IBM HTTP Server and Plugins on AIX and Linux Platforms for Production Environments.  • Experience in various file system management using VxVM, SVM, LVM, ZFSand RAID configuration.  • Installed EARs, WARs and configured application specific JVM settings using the Admin Console. Configured WebSphere resources like Data sources, Databases and connection pooling.  • Creating Linux Virtual Machines using VMware Virtual Center, creating VM Templates and troubleshooting all Virtualization related issues.  • Daily administration of various Linux systems with regards to storage and backup/recovery.  • Involved in installing, configuring and maintaining WebSphere Application Server and Tivoli Access Manager(TAM) in both test and production environments of AIX and Linux  • Experience in providing 24/7 On call production support by monitoring the environment performance and troubleshooting any problems related to WebSphere Application servers and Tivoli Access Manager(TAM).  • Experience in Configuring and Implementing Tivoli Access Manager(TAM), WebSeal security tools on AIX and Linux environments  • Experience in making configuration changes for webseal junctions.  • Developed and maintained Shell scripts for build and release tasks.  • Experience in Installing, upgrading and configuring RedHat Linux 3.x, 4.x, 5.x, 6.x, 7 using Kickstart Servers and Interactive Installation.  • Experience in Linux Administration (Installation, Configuration, Tuning and Upgrades of Linux (Red Hat and Oracle). Experience in Server builds using Jumpstart, Kickstart and Manual installation.  • Experience in Installing, upgrading and configuring SUN Solaris 2.6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 on Sun Servers using Jumpstart Servers, Flash Archives and Interactive Installation.  • Experience in installation and management of network related services like DNS, Apache, LDAP, NIS, NIS+, NFS, SAMBA, HTTPD, VSFTP and SMTP remote access, security management and Security troubleshooting skills.  • Installed and updated packages using YUM and managed packages through Redhat Satellite Server.  • Experience in User & Group Security administration manage user account SUDO access.  • Experience in Creation and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in Redhat Linux.  • Experience in planning, implementing and relocating to a new data center. Includes Installation and up gradation of Packages and Patches configuration management, version control, service pack. &reviewing connectivity issue regarding security problem.  • Developed and Maintained automated processes that run tasks periodically like cleaning of system log files, removing temp files, checking file system for scheduling job automation on UNIX environments using shell scripting and CRON.  • Expertise in scripting for automation, and monitoring using Shell & Python scripts.  • Experience in Installing Firmware Upgrades, kernel patches, systems configuration, performance tuning on Unix/Linux (Redhat, SUSE and AIX) systems.  • Experience in configuring VMware Virtual Hardware, Memory, NIC and VDISK  • Experience in Veritas Cluster Server and Redhat Cluster Server for failover and redundancy purpose. Configuring IP Tables/Firewall rules for new servers to enable communication with application, Experience in IPMP (IP Multipathing) in Solaris and bonding in Linux.  • Monitored server and application performance & tuning via various stat commands (vmstat, nfsstat, iostat etc) and tuned I/O, memory, etc.  • Two plus years on AWS in a DevOps Culture through Continuous Integration (CI) & Continuous Deployment.  • Good understanding of processes in Software Development Life Cycle, Project roles and CM plans. Extensive experience working in Agile and waterfall technology.  • Experience with Agile Environment with Kanban and Scrum  • Worked using Kanban for Support Role in Production System and work process inventory.  • Experience in Working with Public Cloud Platform like Amazon Web Services and good knowledge in using and managing various services like AWS EC2, VPC, CLI, S3, Route53, Cloud Formation, Cloud Front, SNS, SQS, Cloud Trail and managing application in the cloud and creating instances.  • Provided technical support for backup/restore performing System Backups from tapes.  • Expertise in installation of Packages, Security Fixes and Patches using RPM and YUM tools.  • Proficient in setting up with version control, configuring Baselines, Branching, Merging, and Backup through Subversion and GIT  • Good hands-on development experience to perform automation of servers using Chef, Ansible, , Nagios Configuration management and managing the infrastructure environment with Puppet.  • Installation, configuration and upgrade of Apache, IBM Databases on the RHEL/AIX Systems manually and also through Puppet.  • Setup puppet dashboard and also ensure that puppet master can communicate to puppet client. and use puppet to directly deploy to the servers in staging and DR environment.  • Automate Deployment using configuration Management tool like puppet to provision amazon AWS Instances to enable continuous Deployments.  • Configured Jenkins Monitor, List and Build views to displays the status and progress of selected jobs with build version information and implementing Jenkins builds pipeline flow to handle complex build workflows.  • Involved in 24x7 on-call production support and troubleshooting all types of problems related to OS and Applications.  • Team player with good management, analytical, communication and interpersonal skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. DevOps/Linux Systems Administrator Charter Communications July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Administration of RHEL 6.x, 7.x, CentOS, Suse and Linux 7 which includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading and loading patches, troubleshooting both physical and virtual server issues.  • Installation and configuration of AppDynamics Controllers on various environments like Dev, Model and Prod.  • Maintained and managed assigned systems, Splunk related issues and administrators  • Developed Splunk Search Processing Language (SPL) queries, created Reports, Alerts and Dashboards and customized them.  • Setup Splunk Forwarders for new application levels brought into environment.  • Created advanced Dashboards, alerts, advanced Splunk searches and visualization in Splunk.  • Working on AWS Auto Scaling for providing high availability of applications and EC2 instances based on the load of applications by using Cloud Watch in AWS.  • Automate Deployment using configuration Management tool like puppet to provision amazon AWS Instances to enable continuous Deployments.  • Managing and Monitoring the JVM performance by WebLogic/WebSphere/JBoss Heap Size, garbage collection, JDBC Pools & Garbage collection Algorithms.  • Experience in creating VMware templates and cloning VMs and Patching the ESX/ESXi hosts by using VMware Update Manager.  • Patching and upgrading MySQL database applications, java applications on servers.  • Worked on bug fixes and installing patches on WebLogic server 10.3/12.1, JBOSS.  • Deployed JAVA/J2EE applications through Tomcat Application servers.  • Supported migration of applications from Oracle WebLogic 9.2.2 to WebLogic 10.3.5.  • Involved in supporting Apache, Apache Tomcat and generated SSL keys for renewing SSL certs on web servers. Sr. System Administrator Dicks Sporting Goods - Coraopolis, PA February 2017 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Administration of RHEL/AIX which includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading and loading patches, troubleshooting both physical and virtual server issues.  • System Administrator/Integrator role in a large team responsible for maintaining of Linux operating systems such as SUSE 10/11.  • Performed Installation, Updating, Patches, Migration, Configured, Troubleshooting, Security, Backup, Disaster Recovery, Performance Monitoring and Fine-tuning  • Highly experienced in installing, upgrading, configuring and Troubleshooting IBM WebSphere Application Server 8.0 and 8.5, IBM HTTP Server and Plugins on AIX and Linux Platforms for Production  • Involved in creating and configuring profiles, clusters, nodes, node agents for WebSphere Application Server and federated multiple nodes to the Deployment Manager.  • Implemented horizontal and vertical scaling of WebSphere Application Server (WAS) Advanced Edition in a workload-managed cluster on AIX.  • Creating Linux Virtual Machines using VMware Virtual Center, creating VM Templates and troubleshooting all Virtualization related issues.  • Daily administration of various Linux systems with regards to storage and backup/recovery.  • Installation, configuration, administration of Solaris 9, 10 on SPARC based servers using Jumpstart.  • Installing RedHat Linux using kickstart and applying security polices for hardening the server based on the company policies.  • Established Chef Best practices approaches to systems deployment with tools like vagrant and test-kitchen and  • managing Chef Cookbook as a unit of software deployment and independently version controlled.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Experience in Administration/Maintenance of Version control systems SVN, GIT.  • Experience in installing and administrating CI/CD tools like Jenkins.  • Experience in all phases of software development lifecycle such as analysis, planning, developing, testing, implementing and post-production analysis of the projects.  • Excellent understanding of SDLC methodologies like Agile, Waterfall and SCRUM.  • Expertise in creating Devops strategy in a mix environment of Linux (RHEL, CENTOS) servers along with Amazon Web Services.  • In-depth experience with Amazon AWS Cloud Services, (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, Cloud Watch, Elastic IP, RDS, SNS, SQS, Glacier, IAM, VPC, Cloud Formation) and managing security groups on AWS.  • Created playbooks for OpenStack deployments and bug fixes with Ansible.  • Deployed and tested playbooks in Docker containers before pushing changes in Git.  • As part of Cisco Cloud team fixed issues related to OpenStack components Nova, Glance, Neutron, Keystone.  • Creating profiles, manifests for new servers, and pushing them to servers using puppet.  • Experience in creating VMware templates and cloning VMs.  • Working on Volume management, Disk Management, software RAID solutions using VERITAS Volume manager & Solaris Volume Manager.  • File system Tuning and growing using VERITAS File System (VxFS), coordinated with SAN Team for storage allocation and Disk Dynamic Multi path.  • Set up user and group login ID's, printing parameters, network configuration, password, resolving permissions issues, user and group quota.  • Worked on E-commerce based application products related to internet marketing, credit card transactions,  • inventory management.  • Troubleshooting Linux network, security related issues, capturing packets using tools such as IPtables, firewall, TCP wrappers, NMAP.  • Preparing servers for Oracle RAC installation which includes tuning the kernel, agent installation, adding NAS storage on 2, 3, 4 node clusters.    Environment: Red-Hat Linux Enterprise servers (HP ProLiant DL380-G5/G6/G7/G8, 580-G5/G6/G7/G8/G8p, DELL R710/910/920, SAN(Netapp), Oracle 11g/10,1200+ Linux Servers, 500+ AIX servers, BladeLogic, Veritas Cluster Server 5.0, Windows 2003 server, Shell programming, Jboss 4.2, JDK 1.5,1.6, VMware Virtual Client 4/5, VMware Infrastructure 4/5. System Administrator Comcast - Moorestown, NJ May 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Installation and configuration of Redhat Enterprise Linux 6.x systems.  • System Administrator/Integrator role in a large team responsible for maintaining of Linux operating systems such as RHEL/SUSE 10/11.  • Performed Installation, Updating, Patches, Migration, Configured , Troubleshooting, Security, Backup, Disaster Recovery, Performance Monitoring and Fine-tuning  • Installed AIX as LPAR on an IBM P series servers maintained by using HMC set up on a SUSE server.  • Management of SUSE Linux servers including installation, maintenance and troubleshooting  • Involved in installing, configuring and maintaining WebSphere Application Server and Tivoli Access Manager(TAM) in both test and production environments of AIX and RHEL.  • Installation and configuration of Redhat virtual servers using ESXi 4/5 and Solaris servers (LDOMS) using scripts and Ops Center.  • Worked with team to setup Process Monitoring for Production WebSeal environment.  • Support TAM components i.e. WebSeal, Authorization server, Tivoli Directory server, Policy server  • Experience in managing VMware Virtual Hardware, Memory, NIC and VDISK.  • Migrated VMWARE VMs to AWS and Managed Services like EC2, S3 Bucket, Route53, ELB, EBS Etc with Ansible  • Wrote Ansible Playbooks with Python SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of Open stack Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python.  • Managing Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management  tools such as Ansible.  • Experience in package and patches management on Linux and SUSE servers, firmware upgrades and debugging.  • Created disk groups, volumes with RAID architecture and layered volumes using VxVM.  • Addition and configuration of SAN disks for LVM on Linux, and Veritas Volume Manager and ZFS on Solaris LDOMs.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of NAS mounts on AIX and Linux Servers.  • Configuration and administration of ASM disks for Oracle RAC servers.  • Analyzing and reviewing the System performance tuning and Network Configurations.  • Deployed Puppet, Puppet Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure.  • Managed Physical volumes, Volume Groups, and Logical volumes using Logical Volume Manager.  • Troubleshooting and analysis of hardware and failures for various LINUX servers (Core dump and log file analysis).  • Performed configuration and troubleshooting of services like NFS, FTP, LDAP.  • Management of Veritas Volume Manager (VxVM) and Zettabyte File System (ZFS) in Solaris.  • Experience in writing scripts for automating jobs. Implemented SUDO, SSH and other security tools.  • Redesigned and redeployed the Nagios implementation. Nodes automatically added/removed automatically via Puppet.  • Automate Deployment using configuration Management tool like puppet to provision AWS Instances to enable continuous Deployments.  • Deployed a distributed Jenkins environment for continuous integration/builds. All builds output rpm packages as artifacts.    Environment: Redhat Linux 6.x, AIX, SUSE Linux 11, Sun Enterprise Servers E5500/E4500, Sun Fire V1280/480/440, Sun SPARC 1000, Puppet, Jenkins, GIT, servers, VMware ESX Server, Oracle. Unix/Linux Administrator Intuit, CA September 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Configuration and upgradation of Linux and AIX Operating Systems.  • Configuration of NIS+, NFS, DNS, DHCP servers in AIX and Linux environment.  • Performed automated installations of operating systems using Jumpstart for Solaris, and Kickstart for Linux.  • Installation, configuration and upgrade of Redhat Enterprise Linux 5/6 and Solaris 9 operating systems.  • Configured and installed Redhat Linux Servers using kickstart.  • Performed package and patches management and debugging in different flavors of UNIX & Linux.  • Implemented file sharing on the network by configuring NFS on the system to share essential resources.  • Performance tuning in Linux(RHEL).  • Extensively worked in database migration from older machine to latest configurations; and good experience in server migration.  • Managed physical and Logical volumes, Volume Groups using Logical Volume Manager and created/extended file systems in Linux.  • Worked on monitoring of VMware virtual environments with ESXi 4 servers and Virtual Center.  • Supported NFS, DHCP, FTP, LDAP and Web servers (Apache, tomcat).  • Managed of Zettabyte File System (ZFS) in Solaris. Installed and Managed Veritas Volume Manager (VXVM), Veritas file system (VFS).  • Deployed Puppet for configuration management to existing infrastructure.  • Helped to design and deploy a Cloud Stack and VMware based private cloud.  • Experience in creating and loading images on Solaris, and Linux servers using System Imager tool.  • Expertise on Yum configuration and RPM package management.  • Knowledge of NAS and SAN concepts and technology.    Environment: Redhat Linux 5/6, AIX, Sun Enterprise Servers E5500/E4500, Sun Fire V1280/480/440, Sun SPARC 1000, HP 9000K, L, Puppet, Cloud, AWS, Jenkins, GIT, VMware ESX Server. Unix/Linux Administrator Design Esthetics - IN March 2012 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installation, Configuration & Upgrade of Linux, AIX and Windows operating system.  • Experience in creation of environments on virtual machines to be handed over to development and QA teams.  • Involved in Configuring WebSphere resources such as Data Sources and Connection Pooling in order to connect to databases.  • Worked on creation of TCP and SSL type of Junctions between WebSeal and the back-end servers.  • Experience in Tivoli Access manager (TAM) and WebSeal for user authentications and authorizations.  • Installed, configured and maintained Web servers and Application Servers including Apache, tomcat and jboss.  • Creating new file system, managing & checking data consistency of the file system.  • Performed backup management through regular ufsdump, ufsrestore, fbackup, F-Recovery and DLT tape drives.  • Good experience in installation/upgradation of VMware ESXi 4.1.  • Experience in implementing load balancing using modjk.  • Maintaining the CPU & Memory utilization of Servers reports on the Webserver.  • Prepared documentation of understanding, deployment instructions for production releases and updated operation procedures.  • Periodic checks of production and development systems; CPU utilization, memory profiles, disk utilization, network connectivity, system log files, etc.  • Experience in performance monitoring and performance tuning using top, prstat, sar, vmstat, ps, iostat etc.  • Experience in user and group administration, management and archiving.  • Maintenance on systems by timely upgrading Patches to the systems and Scheduling of batch jobs and cron jobs.  • Configuring NFS, Auto-mount and disk space management on LINUX servers.  • Involved in 24/7 high availability on pager rotation basis and coordinated efforts with the offshore team.    Environment: Linux RHEL 4/5, Sun Enterprise Server, SunFire 6800/ E6500/ E4500 & E3500, Blade Servers. And JBoss Skills AIX, LINUX, RED HAT, SHELL SCRIPTING, UNIX