Self-Employed Self-Employed Self-Employed - Self-Employed Huntington Park, CA Systems Administrator that is quick learning, detail-oriented, with experience managing IT needs  across a multi-site medical business. With a strong ability to communicate I have been able to  assist employees with technology and also help management increase productivity by improving  the use of technology. Seeking a position where I can use my knowledge and experience to help  the company and self grow. Work Experience Self-Employed Self-Employed - Los Angeles, CA March 2019 to Present IT Consultant  • Upgraded law offices desktops from traditional hard drives to Solid State Drives.  • Installed a small business Wi-Fi system at a real estate office. Systems Administrator Clinica Medica General - Los Angeles, CA December 2016 to March 2019 • Managed all IT systems including workstations, servers, network equipment, printers, security cameras, phone systems, and some medical equipment.  • Backward engineered reports made by previous admin in Excel and Crystal Reports in order to retrieve data needed by employer.  • Converted several physical Windows Servers to Hyper-V Virtual Machines.  • Negotiated with telecommunication vendors to reduce costs and improve service.  • Used Shoreware Directory to manage an on-site VoIP Phone System and configure  phones, call groups, and auto-attendant menus.  • Managed a Watchguard Firewall and modified its configuration to allow/deny users'  internet access, opened ports for certain software, and to create a VPN.  • Replaced an unmanaged Wi-Fi network with an enterprise Ubiquiti Wi-Fi system.  • Planned and organized deployment of new/upgrades to critical organization software.  • Used group policies in Active Directory to deploy software.  • Recovered data from a crashed server with backups from a Barracuda system.  • Replaced failing D-Link switches with newer versions using exported configuration files  and/or by replicating configurations from other D-Link switches.  • Disposed of outdated workstations and servers by removing components that could  contain sensitive information and reaching out to third party for a certified destruction. Desktop Support Clinica Medica General - Los Angeles, CA August 2015 to November 2016 • Provided in person and over the phone support for IT issues to bilingual employees in various positions across 7 sites.  • Was principal support for the clinics EMR software (Prime Clinical Software).  • Created a Virtual Machine in VMware to run legacy software.  • Identified and quarantined 2 separate ransomware attacks.  • Researched and presented replacements for company's antivirus software.  • Managed the administration of Kaspersky Security Center.  • Created a short 5 minute workshop on internet safety that was presented to employees.  • Upgraded computer components on desktops, laptops, and tablets.  • Ran and installed network cabling through walls and ceilings.  • Added patch panels to network closets to better organize cabling.  • Created a subnetwork to connect security cameras and allow remote offsite viewing.  • Responsible for the organization and monthly backups of the security cameras videos. Student Tutor Pasadena City College - Pasadena, CA July 2012 to December 2014 • Provided personal & group tutoring to students in Computer Information Systems.  • Created and taught an hour long workshop to show freshman college students how to create online portfolios to showcase their educational development.  • Provided technical support in a workshop for professors on technology in the classroom.  • Assisted a professor teach an introduction to technology in business course by providing  real world examples of concepts and working with students to finish assignments. Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems California State Polytechnic University June 2016 Associates of Arts in Business Administration in Business Administration Pasadena City College - Pasadena, CA December 2014 Skills Active directory, Exchange, Firewalls, Windows xp, Cloning Assessments Electronic Medical Records Knowledge — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s knowledge of EMR data and associated privacy regulations, as well as best practices for EMR use. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tdc4n0lr-dripbqi Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ck8ydqae3qwrfshy Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.