IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - The RK Group San Antonio, TX A dedicated and enthusiastic individual with years of experience in server and network support that will utilize skills to contribute to the organizations success. Work Experience IT Manager The RK Group - San Antonio, TX 2016 to Present ?    Spearheaded infrastructure upgrades while conveying project status to Executives  ?    Responsible for creating and updating documentation to ensure changes to infrastructure and licensing are current  ?   Developed and implemented Backup process, coordinated restorations of data with end users and Management  ?    Administered relationship between Vendors and Executives to complete projects in a timely matter  ?    Responsible for Active Directory management, network security best practices Field Services / Systems Administrator Bridgehead IT - San Antonio, TX 2013 to 2016 ? Collaborated with management and customers to ensure HIPAA compliance  ? Administered servers in both virtual/physical environment.  ? Managed backups and would monitor and repair failures to ensure redundancy  ? Administering of Active Directory, Exchange, File Sharing, and Group Policy Computer Technician FBD Inc - San Antonio, TX 2011 to 2013 ? Assisted in management with users in Active Directory  ? Responsible for the purchase, repair, maintenance and redeployment of machines  ? Managed and maintained users for VOIP service (Allworx) Education B.S. in Biochemistry University of the Incarnate Word May 2011 Skills Cisco, Exchange, Vmware, Linux, Microsoft exchange, Microsoft windows, Time management Certifications/Licenses Systems Security Certified Practioner August 2019 to August 2024 (ISC)2 Security Certification Additional Information Additonal Skills  ? Strong interpersonal skills with the ability to communicate with individuals at all levels  ? Excellent time management skills with an established track record of meet project deadlines  ? Strong analytical and project management skills