Linux Administrator/Engineer Linux <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Engineer Linux Administrator/Engineer - AT&T Corp, N.Y New York, NY Work Experience Linux Administrator/Engineer AT&T Corp, N.Y July 2016 to Present Installed, configured, maintained, and supported Red Hat Linux/CentOS 5/6/7 servers.  ? Using Ansible Playbooks to configure servers simultaneously and to automate daily tasks among multiple servers.  ? Creating and privatizing AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and launching instances.  ? Configured AWS IAM and security Group in Public and Private Subnets in VPC  ? Experience working with AWS provided Solutions like EC2 and ELB which includes Creating EC2 instances, adding EBS volumes for EC2 and familiarity with VPC, Route 53, RDS, S3, Auto scaling, Storage gateway, Cloud formation and Cloud Watch.  ? Worked on upgrading Virtual Machines VMware ESXI hosts and VCenter servers.  ? Server migrations on VMware, VMotion, PlateSpin VMware Update Manager..  ? Decommissioned physical and virtual servers.  ? Working with Vendor support via email and phone to resolve crucial production cases.  ? 24HR Availability for Production issues and maintenance schedule for patching and migration  ? Kernel Tuning to adjust Kernel behavior and Kernel upgrades.  ? Managed break/fix  ? Installing and building physical servers (HP, DELL) and virtual ESXI (VMware).  ? Managed and deployed bash/shell scripts for backups and scheduling tasks.  ? Created logical volumes, extending the file systems using LVM  ? Patch Management, Package Installation/Upgrades/Removing  ? Monitoring System Activities like CPU, Memory, Disk and Swap space usage to avoid any performance issues.  ? Managing critical servers such as DNS, DHCP, NFS, FTP.  ? Setting up secure passwordless sign-on with SSH authentication  ? Creating and Managing user accounts and managing system security  ? Documenting processes, best practices and troubleshooting procedures.  ? User Management, regular incremental backups using NetBackup, and regular maintenance for recovery in the Linux servers.  ? Used Nagios as a monitoring tool to identify and resolve infrastructure problems before they affect critical processes.  ? Handling hardware issues and their replacements remotely.  ? Monitoring disk status, system processes, user process activity, system security & logs.  ? File System Management, Monitoring OS, and Network Activities.  ? Installation and upgrading of Package and Patch Administration.  ? Creating Users, Groups, Profiles, implementing security policy.  ? Investigated critical issues, determine impact and provided solution and documented (RCA) Root Cause Analysis when required.  ? Developed and maintained re-use materials and server documentation for use by internal team.  ? Experience with NAS, DAS, and SAN storage for data storage or data retrieval.  ? Configuring servers to Raid levels for redundancy.  ? Reading and utilizing SYSLOG to troubleshoot system issues. Linux Systems Admin Dow Chemicals - Philadelphia, PA July 2014 to June 2016 Hands-on experience with vMotion, Storage vMotion, High Availability (HA), Fault Tolerance (FT), DRS, Storage DRS and Snapshots.  ? Knowledge of Cloud Computing concepts such as IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS.  ? Configure and troubleshoot connection to SSH through SSH clients, set up password-less and agent forward for SSH.  ? Administering and maintaining source control management system through Git. Created branches, tags, fixed merge issues, and managed Git repositories.  ? Installed, configurated, maintained, and troubleshooted enterprise-wide Apache web servers  ? Installed, updated, and configured packages using RPM and YUM package management.  ? Identifying, diagnosing, and resolving issues with workstations, laptops, end-user software and hardware.  across a variety of platforms including Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Windows Server, Mac OSX and Linux.  ? Monitoring of CPU/Memory utilization and running processes  ? Automated tasks through Cron jobs  ? Acted as the first point of contact for all IT & technical inquiries.  ? Train end-users to properly and efficiently use company resources while complying with company policies.  ? Document all issues and generate reports detailing common problems and error trends.  ? Configured and managed backup & restore procedures.  ? Track open tickets and monitor ticket progress and close ticket items when problems are resolved.  ? Handled onsite issues such as; network connections, PC diagnostic Issues, Printer problems, PC Setup and configurations, addressing customer concerns regarding services and or needs.  ? Installed and configured wireless networking equipment, network software, including security or firewall software, ensuring integration with existing network systems.  ? Set up equipment for customer use, executed proper installation of cables, operating systems, and appropriate software. Troubleshooted, upgraded and repaired PCs and laptops.  ? Setup and supported all company mobility including Blackberry, iPhone, Android and tablets increasing flexibility of mobile accessibility to company data.  ? Upgraded memory and hard drives along with configuration and diagnostics for all workstations and terminals. Tech Support Specialist Dealer Track - New Hyde Park, NY August 2013 to June 2014 Administered active directory accounts and groups.  ? Monitored servers using bigbrother and nagios utilities, setup NFS, NIS servers and clients.  ? Group Policy administration, hardware configuration and user support for VPM, MS Office and other applications.  ? Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, NIS, NFS, DNS, agents and DHCP.  ? Installed ESXi Hypervisor Servers, vSphere clients, and vCenter Servers.  ? Configuring hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc.  ? Develop and maintain installation and configuration procedures.  ? Managing Linux infrastructure involving day-to-day maintenance of servers and troubleshooting  ? Group Policy administration, hardware configuration and user support for VPM, MS Office and other applications.  ? Hardware and software installation.  ? Microsoft Office installation and troubleshooting including network cabling.  ? Assisted in training new team members and familiarizing them with our environment and Linux OS.  ? Providing user support and assisting them in resolving problems they are experiencing. Education A.A.S. in Computer Information Systems Kingsborough Community College - New York, NY Skills Apache, Linux, Linux/unix, Red hat, Unix, Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin, Linux Administrator