ADPE / Service Desk Administrator ADPE / Service Desk <span class="hl">Administrator</span> ADPE / Service Desk Administrator - VECTRUS SYSTEMS CORPORATION Montgomery, AL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ADPE / Service Desk Administrator VECTRUS SYSTEMS CORPORATION - Bagram, AF April 2019 to Present Afghanistan  • Joins client computers to Microsoft Active Directory domains.  • Installs, configures, and maintains security software on military computer systems.  • Performs VERITAS Backup Exec to conduct file server Backup / Restores.  • Maintaining antivirus / security requirements by the US Army standards and regulations.  • Creates logon and email accounts using Microsoft Exchange Server and User Manager. Manages Network Services with Server Manager, Print Queue Management and CISCO VMPS administration. Systems Operator - Top Secret Clearance Maxwell, AFB - Montgomery, AL March 2018 to March 2019 • Performed client-level IT support functions for Department of Defense- hardware and software - installation, configuration, management, and troubleshooting for DOD customer base of approximately 850,000 users.  • Documented, tracked, and monitored the problems using BMC Remedy ticketing system to ensure a timely resolution.  • Provided First Contact Resolution or escalates incidents as needed to the next appropriate tier.  • Provided service on over 400+ Applications via Mainframe LPAR support, Active Directory, BladeLogic, GCCS-J, and other password management systems; SIPRNet and NIPRNet prioritization processing; DHA, HLOs, AHLTA/MHS processing Grocery Replenishment Specialist Publix - Montgomery, AL October 2014 to March 2019 • Exercised individual judgement under general guidance of the department manager; monitoring inventory and handling perishable goods while ensuring customer service standards are upheld through the maintenance of supply and demand.  • Maintained area of responsibility in accordance to policies and procedures by properly adhering to isles schematics by reorganizing products according to the company's request.  • Operated pallet jacks, forklifts, and dolly for use with storing, unloading and transporting delivered merchandise IT Support Center Analyst - Top Secret Clearance Maxwell, AFB - Montgomery, AL July 2017 to February 2018 • Provided accurate and creative solutions to user problems of moderate nature to ensure user productivity.  • Acquired and maintains current knowledge of relevant product offerings and support policies to provide technically accurate solutions to customers.  • Researched, resolved, and responded to questions received via telephone calls, letters, and callbacks in a timely manner, in accordance with standards.  • Assisted in the resolution of user and support issues among company sites to ensure timely distribution of knowledge and positive impact on user. Dean's Assistant, Graduate Assistant Alabama State University, College of Business - Montgomery, AL August 2016 to July 2017 • Taught the importance of strong business relationships and broad network within business environment  • Provided assistance with event planning including supervision of undergraduate student workers  • Organized and planned meetings and events on behalf of Dean's Office Education Master's in Accounting Alabama State University - Montgomery, AL December 2017 Bachelor's in CIS Alabama State University - Montgomery, AL August 2011 to May 2016 Skills Sap, Excel, Powerpoint, Word, Photoshop Military Service Branch: United States National Guard Rank: SGT Certifications/Licenses MCSA July 2019 to Present Security+ January 2019 to January 2022