Senior Systems Administrator (OpenAM) Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (OpenAM) Software & Systems Engineer Austin, TX Seeking a full-time systems administrator position in the Austin/Round Rock area. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator (OpenAM) Apex Systems - Austin, TX October 2018 to April 2019 • Assisted in development of standards, policies, and procedures around the use of OpenAM SSO application performance monitoring and availability.  • Monitored subsystems using customized scripting appropriate to the monitoring tool being used.  • Customized the monitoring interfaces to provide dashboards and alerts for numerous applications in the production and pre-production environments as well documenting and testing said customizations.  • Participated in tuning and troubleshooting efforts. Software & Systems Engineer Teradata - Miamisburg, OH August 2014 to April 2018 • Provided support for core IT functions, especially the development of automation software with Java and Linux shell scripting.  • Assisted helpdesk in diagnosing and troubleshooting problems with user workstations and applications, especially VMWare Mirage.  • Configured and maintained instances of OpenAM SSO solution and standard support activities such as availability monitoring and technical support for end-users.  • Developed Java web applications (both front-end and back-end/ORM) to facilitate duties of internal organizations. Developer Edpative Computing, Inc - Centerville, OH March 2013 to August 2014 • Developed, tested, and documented defense-related modeling and simulation Java applications for web and desktop. Electrical Engineer Sumaria Systems, Inc - Wpafb, OH April 2012 to January 2013 • 1. Developed and tested Java applications for human factors research as a contractor at the Air Force Research Laboratory. Engineering Technician Air Force Research Laboratory - Wpafb, OH June 2009 to September 2011 • Supported development of aerospace engineering applications for simulation, modeling, and visualization. Education Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering Wright State University - Dayton, OH November 2011 Skills Java (8 years), Linux (7 years), Amazon Web Services (Less than 1 year), OpenAM (4 years), Microsoft SQL Server (4 years), Javascript (3 years), Angular (Less than 1 year), Shell Scripting (5 years), MySQL (1 year), SAML (3 years), Identity Access Management (4 years), VMware Mirage (2 years), Spring Security (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 6 Programmer September 2013 to Present CompTIA Security+ November 2018 to November 2021