Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant Santa Rosa, CA Organized and thorough team member with seven years of experience in establishing, implementing, and maintaining government systems and programs. Well versed in developing procedures for achieving common objectives. Excels in team environments and leadership positions. Currently holds a Department of Defense Top Secret/SCI Security Clearance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Administrative Assistant United States Attorney's Office - San Francisco, CA April 2018 to August 2018 • Coordinated the completion of pre-employment security screenings  • Processed contracts for closure and allocation of unused funds  • Maintained comprehensive employee information records Consultant/Contractor Pahara Institute - Napa, CA August 2017 to January 2018 ? Compiles reports to conduct data and work analysis  ? Sanitizes database contents and improves system organization  ? Conduct educational system research to identify valuable leaders within organizations  ? Maintain comprehensive records of data and necessary information for inter-team continuity Systems Administrator II Invictus Technical Solutions - Indian Springs, NV July 2016 to July 2017 ? Provided end user support to 1,300 people both over the phone and in person  ? Reviewed customer requests to ensure desires were properly met  ? Documented all workflow in a trouble ticket system to maintain proper work history   ? Drafted technical documents and manuals to provide universal understanding of procedures   ? Compiles reports on resource utilization for future asset procurement Systems Administration Supervisor United States Air Force - Various Locations January 2010 to September 2015 ? Provided over the phone and in person support to 300 clients across seven sites  ? Supplied administrative support to managerial staff; prepared briefings, memorandums, and document requests using Microsoft Office and Adobe utilities   ? Managed office scheduling; organized meetings, training, and briefings for 28 coworkers  ? Developed spreadsheet to track and report on 137 critical system deficiencies   ? Met with managerial staff to verify Department of Defense security standards were upheld  ? Managed 216 item inventory worth 1.3 million dollars with all items accounted for  ? Oversaw 103 person security program, preserved contents of classified data Education Bachelor of Science in Political Science with a minor in History Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-5, Staff Sergeant January 2010 to September 2015 Commendations: United States Air Force Commendation Medal  United States Air Force Achievement Medal Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ August 2010 to Present Vendor-neutral IT security knowledge and skills. Driver's License