Systems Administrator | Business Systems Analyst I <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> | Business <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst I Systems Administrator - Astrazeneca Fairfax, VA Systems Administrator with experience in Helpdesk/Deskside support, building servers, designing images for both laptops and desktops, and virtualization. Excellent customer service. I have experience working with JIRA and Salesforce ticketing systems. A strong willingness to learn about new practices, hardware, and software. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator | Business Systems Analyst I The Fountain Group May 2019 to Present Restructured and maintained company inventory (Asset/Property tag, Serial Number, Device Type, Manufacturer, Assigned User)  ? Managed IVR configurations, database, and recordings based on the needs of user stories  ? Performed quality of service troubleshooting  ? Performed administrative activities such as setting user accounts, roles, access, and privileges  ? Functioned as IT liaison for Access 360 call center management  ? Diagnose and troubleshoot issues with windows and telephony systems as reported through JIRA  ? Worked alongside call center management for planning future projects  ? Supported users in the use of computer equipment by providing necessary training and advice  ? Assigned JIRA tickets to appropriate Project Management Office team  ? Provided onboard training for new hires  ? Logged system and application issues by compiling logs for third party vendors IT Systems Support Specialist American College of Radiology February 2018 to April 2019 Designed, implemented, and maintained images using Ghost Casting  ? Restructured existing organization inventory into Excel (Asset Tag, Serial Number, Assigned User, and Warranty)  ? Created loaner checkout form and tracking worksheet (Machine Name, Asset Tag, Assigned User, Supervisor, Sign out date, and Sign in date)  ? Monitored JIRA ticketing system assigning tickets to teammates  ? Conducted New Hire onboard training  ? Maintained an up-to-date Active Directory on a monthly basis (descriptions, organization units, and contact information), created domain user accounts in Active Directory  ? Performed administrative tasks for user's accounts on Equitrac  ? Assigned VPN tokens and manage user's accounts using FortiClient Authenticator  ? Assigned user photos for domain accounts using Code2ActiveDirectory  ? Deployed BMC NAMP agents to laptops and desktops, used BMC NAMP for remote desktop assistance  ? Provided remote desktop assistance with GoToAssist Jr. System Administrator Mirixa Corporation - Reston, VA December 2015 to February 2018 Performed full range of helpdesk tasks  ? Created and maintained images using Symantec Ghost Casting software for new and old desktops and laptops  ? Created and Maintained company inventory on a weekly basis (Asset tag, Serial number or MAC address, Location, User's name, Phone number, and Warranty)  ? Used Salesforce to create and schedule weekly Salesforce reports. Filter and create custom automated reports.  ? Scheduled deactivations of accounts through using Active Directory  ? Maintained Active Directory by keeping descriptions up to date, and in correct Organizational Units  ? Performed administrator duties on BroadSoft call center portal (Pingtone/Apetix and Vonage). Assign accounts, call centers, agents, and scheduled IVR business hours  ? Performed new hire IT orientation  ? Point of contact for IT vendor support to verify ticket status and timely completion  ? Installed servers, switches, and security cameras  ? Deployed Shavlik (Aventi) agent onto workstations enabling them to receive scheduled patches  ? Managed machines using McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator server Closing driver Marco's Pizza June 2013 to August 2014 Worked on the make line filling orders  ? Maintained shop inventory  ? Took orders via phone and from in store customer walk-ins  ? Senior driver authorized to deliver multiple across districts  ? Deposited store cash into bank account daily Morale, Wellness, and Recreation Directorate for Camp - Robinson, AR June 2012 to August 2012 Robinson, AR (6/12 to 8/12)  ? Worked on the make line filling orders  ? Maintained shop inventory  ? Took orders via phone and from in store customer walk-ins  ? Senior driver authorized to deliver multiple orders across districts  ? Deposited store cash into store bank account daily Education Bachelor of Science degree in Information Technology Management University of Maryland University College February 2018 to Present Sylvan Hills High School August 2008 to May 2012 Skills ENCRYPTION, GHOST, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, JIRA, SYMANTEC, SHAREPOINT, CASTING, MICROSOFT OFFICE, CSI, Calabrio (Less than 1 year), Call Center as a Service (2 years) Additional Information Technical Proficiencies  Software: SharePoint, Salesforce, Jira, Symantec Ghost Casting, Symantec End-Point Protection, Symantec Desktop Encryption, Shavlik (Aventi), Broadsoft, McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator server, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, etc.), HyperV - Manager, GoToAssist, AD Manager Plus, Active Directory, FortiClient Authenticator, Equitrac, Code 2 Active Directory, Five9 Virtual Call Center, Five9 Supervisor, Calabrio, CSI Screen Capture