Child Welfare Caseworker Child Welfare Caseworker Child Welfare Caseworker - Franklin County Children Services Columbus, OH Multi-faceted and client-oriented professional with over 18 years of combined experience in the human services, non-profit, marketing, and corporate sectors with the ability to lead successful implementation of a variety of programs. Proven success in building client and community relations, as well as highly skilled in conflict resolution. Work Experience Child Welfare Caseworker Franklin County Children Services - Columbus, OH April 2018 to Present • Provides comprehensive case management services to families in which children may be dependent, neglected or abused, as well as unruly and delinquent.  • Formulates and monitors case plans; and evaluates progress and effectiveness of implemented treatments, case management, and services needed.  • Performs required record keeping functions in SACWIS, Electronic Case file, OnBase, and prepares required paperwork; written assessment reports, case reviews, dictation and related documentation as required for court and daily case management.  • Assists in training and mentoring new social workers and staff.  • Promoted to Child Welfare Caseworker II after 12 months of successful case management. Independent Distributor It Works Global - Charlotte, NC March 2015 to April 2018 Charlotte, NC March 2015 - April 2018    • Consistently achieved 100% of monthly quota and increased sales by $50,000 within first three months, earning title as Diamond Leader.  • Created a customer database of over 1,000 clients worldwide that assisted team in reaching monthly goals.  • Trained and coached a team of 150+ sales professionals focused on servicing health, wellness, and beauty accounts. Systems Administrator Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC March 2015 to May 2016 • Programmed and tested in AMAG Symmetry, Picture Perfect, BART and NICE Situator software platforms in preparation for system conversion.  • Assisted project teams with technical issues in the initiation and planning phases of standard project management methodology in preparation for deployment on high profile project.  • Collected and interpreted data for technicians to successfully install new hardware for testing. Site Coordinator Communities In Schools - Charlotte, NC August 2014 to July 2015 • Provided comprehensive case management and dropout prevention for 100 students, grades 6-8, with a focus on attendance, academics, and behavior.  • Collected, assessed, and interpreted data related to student performance and interventions to support continuous improvement and program success.  • Cultivated relationships with community partners and identified special needs through assessments; referring children/parents to outside agencies as necessary. Education Master of Arts in Human Services in Human Services Liberty University - Lynchburg, VA June 2013 Bachelor of Arts in English in English The University of North Carolina - Charlotte, NC December 2010 Skills SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION, RECORDS MANAGEMENT, CASE MANAGEMENT, PROGRAM MANAGEMENT, MICROSOFT OFFICE Additional Information SKILLS  • Records management • Interpersonal and written communication • Intakes and assessments  • Case management • Microsoft office • Systems administration  • Policies and procedures • Marketing • Troubleshooting  • Program Management