Information Assurance Support Officer (Team Lead) Information Assurance Support Officer (Team Lead) Information Assurance Support Officer (Team Lead) - SNAP INC Lawton, OK Work Experience Information Assurance Support Officer (Team Lead) SNAP INC - Fort Sill, OK September 2018 to Present 40-50 Hours/Week  • Responsible for Operating and maintaining computer equipment for Army Civilians, Contractors and Soldiers.  • Maintains both classroom and staff automation equipment across the Fort Sill AIT Training footprint. Installs, configures, troubleshoots, scans and repairs personal governmental computer workstations, classroom workstations, thin client workstations, personal digital assistant (PDA) devices, printers, and operating systems.  • Communicates effectively to customers to explain technology issues in a way that enables them to understand and gain educated information, which helps them to be successful in their own positions.  • Ensures daily operations of all Enterprise Classroom Program facilities to include the daily preventive maintenance of classroom equipment and performing upgrades required to both instructor and student computers.  • Provide Tier I and II help desk support and desktop support for MS Windows systems.  • Input and tracked to completion Trouble Tickets for all tasks requiring NEC support using the government provided online Remedy ticketing system.  • Responsible for oversite of team, coordinating with fellow team members to ensure all customer needs are met with success and timeliness. Network Communications Manager Comanche County Memorial Hospital - Lawton, OK March 2018 to September 2018 40-50 Hours/Week  • Managed and administered the hospital's telecommunication system.  • Managed and administered disaster routing and emergency preparedness program.  • Responsible for overseeing the installation and maintenance of all hospital telecommunication systems. Duties required for hands-on work setting up servers and routers, to include installation of VOIP hardware and software. As Network Communication Manager, was responsible for working with all departments within the hospital in an effort to ensure that the overall system functions to its maximum potential.  • Addressing individual and departmental concerns, troubleshooting, and targeting weak spots in a company's telecommunication systems would also be a priority.  • Maintained all records of installation, repair, and replacement of parts and equipment.  • Responsible for identifying hospital's telecommunication needs with research on the latest advances in telecommunication technology.  • Consulted with multiple vendors and salespeople to discuss new products and upgrades.  • Responsible for all communication related invoices, periodic review of all bills related to the communications department.  • Responsible for developing corporate telecommunications policies.  • Manager/Supervisory duties to include overseeing the Hospital Operators in the communications department. Responsible for not only VOIP systems, but the paging system, pagers, and cell phones for all Hospital staff, also provide support for any of our communications devices. Systems Administrator II Serco - Lawton, OK November 2014 to March 2017 40-50 Hours/Week  • Installed new software releases and system upgrades. Evaluated and installed patches and resolves software related problems. Performed system backups and recovery. Maintained data files and monitored system configuration to ensure data integrity. Maintained server/storage systems to include Active Directory, SQL, Windows Server 2012, and Windows 8 Operating System. Performed granular backup of systems.  • Responsible for technical training of the new start up help desk support office in Ohio, which included training many new employees on healthcare systems and how to operate tech support ticketing systems.  • Executed test procedures to assess systems performance, identify and troubleshoot difficult or unusual problems, and test results for the implementation of system upgrades. Effectively communicated to employees how operation procedures and polices worked within the systems.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, installation, configuration, and testing of backups in a high availability enterprise system. Provided daily reports to managers of any issues that occurred that day as well as resolutions to any technical problems.  • Built and troubleshoot servers within a VMware environment. Systems Support Specialist Fairbanks Memorial Hospital - Fairbanks, AK November 2012 to November 2013 40-50 Hours/Week  • Customer support throughout the company on all standard network and collaboration software products and technologies including consultation with customers, installation of equipment, establishing wired and wireless network connectivity, training on computer equipment and software applications, and troubleshooting day to day applications/hardware problems  • Systems analysis and technical support for all network application services that fall under the categories of email, personal productivity tools, workgroup and collaboration products, and emerging technologies on all desktop hardware platforms. Provides escalation support and serves as a technical resource. Providing Managers with daily reports on hospital technical functions of the day and any problems that occurs. Systems Specialist SAMS-E - Fort Wainwright, AK July 2012 to November 2012 99703 Supervisor Marcus Andrews 907-978-8580  • Army Maintenance Management System (TAMMS) and dispatching operations and track scheduled services using SAMS-E to ensure LBE equipment services remain in tolerance.  • Input equipment faults into SAMS-E/ULLS-G from DA Form 2404 Technical Inspections (TI); ensure the upkeep of the DA Form 5988-E equipment faults and status. Issue equipment to supported units, transfer equipment maintenance  • Prepared and distributed monthly Service Due Schedules as requested that reflected backlogged services and services that were due in the month of the upcoming period. Education education Western Governors University 2018 to Present Information Systems Western Oklahoma State College - Altus, OK 2001 Skills Technical Support, Active Directory, Networking, Windows, Security, Vmware, Sales, Customer Service, Windows 7