Senior Project Systems Engineer Senior Project <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Project Systems Engineer - Adanced Legal Services Highly-analytical, resourceful IT professional with notable success directing a broad range of government and corporate IT Systems security initiatives. 10+ years of hands-on experience leading all stages of system development efforts including planning, RCA, architecture, testing, and implementation of solutions in support of business objectives. Work Experience Senior Project Systems Engineer Adanced Legal Services - Las Vegas, NV May 2019 to Present • Manage and guide a team of 4 Systems Administrators  • VMware and VDI desktops integration.  • Documentation of Current systems deployed.  • Enhance Advanced Legal infrastructure and provide feedback in areas that are susceptible for improvement.  • Manage all 20 clients network, streamline application flow through VDI.  • Liaison to Service manager and Clients to maintain best customer satisfaction. Senior Systems Engineer Total Network Solutions - Long Beach, CA August 2018 to January 2019 • Maintained Entire Network and Server Infrastructure for 10 Clients with minimum of 150 Employees.  • Migrated clients from On Prem AD to Azure and O365.  • Upgraded clients production applications with minimal downtime,  • Upgraded AntiVIrus system to enhance security and integrity of data.  • Documented, Maintained and Enhanced Network of Clients while transitioning Data.  • provided feedback to Clients Contact points and provided 100% Customer Satisfaction with proven Letter of Recommendations.  • Migrated clients Exchange 2017 to O365 utilizing Microsoft Migration Tools  • Built and upgraded Domain Controllers while maintaining Network Flowancy.  • Deployed, Maintained and Troubleshooted Dell Storage Devices SANS and NASs.  • Deployed, Maintained and verfied Backup Solutions such as Veeam, Backup exec and NetBackup. VectorUSA - Torrance, CA August 2017 to May 2018 • Manage Clients Network infrastructure, and provide High Level Technical analysis.  • Investigated and troubleshooted Esxi datastores and provided a path to correct the issue.  • Migrated clients from On prem exch. To O365.  • Provided Disaster Recovery plan.  • Troubleshooted escalated Veeam Backup tickets.  • Migrated HyperVisors.  • Upgraded 100+ Esxi Hosts.  • Documented all Current and New Configurated Items.  • Investigated a Hacked Domain, Revived it, and deployed New Secured Domain Controllers. Lead Senior Systems Engineer HACLA - Los Angeles, CA July 2016 to April 2017 • Deployment of VMware and storage infrastructure Vmware Esxi (5.0, 5.5, 6.0 and 6.5)  • Successfully setup a set of redundant Hosts for Migration Project.  • Lead Transition engineer, Transitioning HACLA from Xerox to HACLA MSP  • Successfully documented all critical hardware and software including topology lay out and DR plans.  • Successfully Migrated From Vmware to HyperV  • Configuration and deployment of Virtual Desktop software such as VMware Horizon View and Citrix XenApp and XenDestop.  • Plan, manage, and communicate activities/deliverables of a Mid/Large project plan.  • Perform Security Audits, AntiVirus effectiveness, Outline security Flaws, document procedures. System Administrator PIH Health Hospital - Whittier, CA April 2014 to March 2016 • Supporting server VM farms ESXi (4.1, 5.0, 5.5) 900+ Server, data centers, Citrix farms (1400), and HA LoadBalancers both Citrix, and Ms-SQL.  • Daily Administration of Exchange servers, Migration and new Deployment, Administration of DataStores and overseeing LOGS and flushing logs.  • Secure mobile Application, and server installation/expansion and maintenance.  • Various application installation on windows server /MSI package, troubleshooting.  • International support experience (for documentation purposes, and presentations.)  • IBM Tivoli, COMMVAULT, and AS400 backup, Disaster Recovery Plan.  • Private Cloud management (Azure). Lead System Administrator ITT EXELIS at Department of Defense March 2012 to May 2013 • Responsible for a Team of 5 Systems administrators,  • Provide user and Microsoft Exchange account maintenance of over 10,000 users along with troubleshooting and maintenance of an Enterprise-class Army System that consist of 3 domains 2 are high Sensitive Networks.  • Oversees system backups, hardware/software installation and upgrades.  • All aspects of Systems Administration to include but not limited to Microsoft 2003 Active Directory and print queues.  • Assisted Enterprise in the Architecture of AD, expansion and deployment.  • Daily administration of Exchange 2003 and Outlook Web Access. Microsoft SMS, WSUS and DHCP.  • Veritas Backup Exec 12.0 Backup / Restores and CommVault Galaxy Backup & Recovery.  • Maintain Systems Availability and perform regular maintenance on equipments.  • Proficient at hardware maintenance and troubleshooting of various Dell Server, LTO library and EMC SANs.  • Maintaining virus / security requirements by the US Army. IT Technician/ Contractor ARC - Costa Mesa, CA June 2011 to February 2012 • Building, deploying, and supporting computers/servers and software applications.  • Server / Systems administration.  • Experience with MS Exchange 2003 and Exchange 2007 migrations and new installations  • Experience with Windows O/S - 2003 and 2008 -VMware  • Planning and monitoring technology resource utilization and making recommendations based on IT person IT Personnel Industrial Orthopedics - Pomona, CA August 2010 to January 2011 Pomona, CA August 2010 - January 2011    • Diagnose the VMware and keep up to date with different versions of ESXI based upon needs  • Setup Workstations and prepare them with Windows environment.  • Maintained Exchange Server and its connection to each Workstation  • Diagnosed and Patched the SBS server after detection of Data Leakage from previous IT person Provide Customer Support IT Personnel Kaplan University - Orlando, FL October 2009 to February 2010 over internet/phone and report to director.  • Help keep the server up to date, and provide Security options for backup incase of any down times. IT Specialist VMware International - Dublin January 2009 to November 2009 • Recover VMware passwords using Knoppix (Linux)  • Respond to emergency Data Disaster Recovery  • ESXI/ESXI3 installation and upgrades Inplace upgrade Education Associates of Science Degree in Information Technology in Computer Networking Systems ITT Technical Institute - Orange, CA Skills Exchange, Active directory, Network administration, Noc, Vmware, Vpn, Machine learning, Backups, Security, Lan, Systems security, End user training, Bilingual, Training Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  • Systems and Network Administration  • Systems Security, Backups and Recovery  • Active Directory, GPO, Microsoft Stack,  • Azure and AWS Cloud Solutions.  • Exchange and Exchange Migration  • Mixed Platform Virtual Enviornment, HyperV, VMware  • Technical Infrastructure (LAN, WAN, VPN, NOC)  • Automation and Machine Learning  • Ransomeware containment and AntiVirus.  • End User Training and Support  • Bilingual - Fluent in English and Arabic