Devops engineer Devops engineer Devops engineer - DATA SERVICES GROUP Houston, TX Devops / Linux systems Administrator  I am a motivated IT professional with hands on systems administration, System configuration, Enthusiastic team player, always looking for innovative and efficient engineering solutions, Energetic self-starter capable of learning quickly with minimal guidance. I am seeking to progress my career in the Information Technology sector where I will use my skills and experience in system maintenance and technical troubleshooting to contribute to an active growth and productivity of the company.    Visa status: US citizen Work Experience Devops engineer DATA SERVICES GROUP August 2014 to Present • Working with Dev team, making modifications on the code using Git VCS to clone, add, commit and push codes from local and master branches to central repositories.  • Creating new Ansible YAML, Play-books, Roles and bash shell scripts for application deployments.  • Collaborating with Dev and Prod teams to ensure smooth running of the pipeline.  • Verify and troubleshoot failed maven builds on Jenkins, verifying artifact id, and date stamps on Nexus, troubleshoot, document and communicate failed builds to the Dev team.  • Deploy snapshots of application codes to Dev and SIT/QA environments using playbooks & roles.  • Participate in daily scrum to improve system performance, and automation capabilities.  • Searching and testing open source applications and software to integrate into the infrastructure.  • Creating documentation resources to aid in future troubleshooting issues, to interact with users and business partners to design solutions for current and future business problems including cloud Migration solutions.  • Monitor system infrastructure against zero downtime, perform periodic backups, and troubleshoot failures.  • Diagnose application memory leaks, identify and fix issues related to SElinux, and identify library dependencies for third party software.  • Collaborate with business partners to perform software enhancing testing and scans.  • Resolve package Management dependency issues.  • Using Nagios XIt to monitor overall server performance, log management and communicating log messages to appropriate teams in different environments within the organization.  • Installation, configuration and hardening of Bare Metal Linux servers, working with security team on future patching needs.  • Automation/Build Tools: Jenkins, Docker, Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Juju, Salt, Nexus, Kubernetes.  Installation and Configuration of the APACHE web Server on Linux platforms troubleshoot and access log files for errors and web access traffic.    AWS Identity & Access Management  - Create individual users.  - Manage permissions with groups.  - Grant least privilege.  - Turn on AWS Cloud Trail.  - Configure a strong password policy.  - Enable MFA for privileged users.  - Use IAM roles for Amazon EC2 instances.  - Use IAM roles to share access.  - Rotate security credentials regularly.  - Restrict privileged access further with conditions.  - Reduce or remove use of root. Linux Systems Administrator Trinitech Consulting Inc - Laurel, MD February 2013 to December 2014 System performance tuning and basics in monitoring, analyzing system and application logs, vulnerability assessments, performing upgrades and Patching.  • Managing physical, virtual, and network storage ( HD's, LVM's, NFS, SAMBA, NAS).  • Using command line & software server/application monitoring and process management tools (Nagios, Rsylog).  • Perform installation, configuration, monitoring and troubleshooting of LAMP.  • User/group administration, file/directory security, authentication and access management (SSH, Firewalls).  • Analyzing and interpreting system and application log files.  • Configuring SElinux and Tripwire intrusion detection security software.  • Configuration and management of network services (HTTP, NFS, SCP ).  • Troubleshoot boot issues, identify and resolve service failures affecting boot.  • Resolve package management dependency issues.  • Collect system information to aid in troubleshooting, document resources, monitor for any behavior modifications & intrusion, configure system to send log messages to system centralized host.  • Installation, configuration, and Hardening of standalone Linux servers.  • Performing periodic system updates/Patches. Support Desk Specialist windows Best Buy 2012 to 2014 • Managed the overall administration of Windows System applications.  • Performed various troubleshooting  • Maintenance operations in Windows Server environments.  • Wireless printer and devices set up and troubleshooting.  • Turn up and virus remove Education University of Yaoundé University at Albany - New York, NY Certification Hoston Community College Skills Firewalls, Nagios, Nas, Puppet, Virtualization, Linux Administrator, Redhat, Linux, Bash, Linux, Red Hat, Vmware, Redhat, Linux Administrator, Kernel Certifications/Licenses Devops certification Present Additional Information Skills  • Bash Shell Scripting, YAML  • Version Control Systems: Git, bitbucket  • Continuous Integration: Jenkins, Nexus  • Automation/Deployment: Ansible, Puppet  • Continuous Monitoring: Nagios, Splunk  • Virtualization: Oracle Virtual Box, VMware  • Platforms: Linux Centos5, 6&7 RHEL 6&7, and Windows Server 2008-2016  • Storage: LVM, NAS  • Web server: Apache  • Ticketing: Jira/kanban board/Confluence/    • Apache, web Server, error.log,  • Automation, Bash, Hardware, content,  • Customer service.  • Database  • Firewalls, Help Desk, HTTP, inventory, LAMP, Managing, memory,  • NAS,  • NFS, Network installation, network  • Process management  •, Redhat Linux, SAMBA,  • scrum, SSH, servers, Shell Scripting, shell scripts, SMTP, System Administrator, Tech Support, Troubleshoot, troubleshooting, upgrades,  • Windows Server  • Patching