JUNIOR SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR JUNIOR <span class="hl">SYSTEMS</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> JUNIOR SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Gilroy, CA Knowledgeable Information Technology professional seeking to contribute training and acquired skills within a support, administration, or DevOps role. Works well  independently, or within group settings, providing all aspects of technical support,  administration, or management; In-depth knowledge and understanding of Windows, Mac OS, Linux, and VMWare. Skilled in administration of Windows/Linux servers and the execution and management of IT projects. Easily identifies and solves technical issues and concerns; Exceptional communication and presentation capabilities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JUNIOR SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Utimaco Inc - Campbell, CA November 2018 to June 2019 Dynamic role that fulfilled both systems administration for the U.S.corporate  environment while also assisting the R&D teams with development operation  support.  • Administrator and support for both test environment and air gapped development  environment which utilized Jira, Confluence, Bitbucket, and Jenkins.  • Facilitated move from two separate offices into single new location after acquisition  of new company assets within first 60-day time frame.  • Assisted with implementation of on-site and remote data center for business  continuity.  • Responsible for researching new technology to be implemented and provide proof  of concept to management.  • Built processes for new office and provided proof of concept/test phase for in house  cloud systems (NextCloud) within 1-week project scope and no budget impact.  • Made recommendations regarding infrastructure overhauls.  • Planned and implemented upgrades to system hardware and software. ANALYST II BACS Consulting Group - Mountain View, CA December 2017 to November 2018 Responsible for working closely with a multitude of Executive level managed clients  at the enterprise level to see to their IT needs on both the day to day and large- scale project basis.  • Act as liaison between higher tier engineers and main contacts at client companies.  • Deploy and maintain a bevy of software and network hardware.  • Assess and manage client expectations and satisfaction with ongoing projects both in the short and long term.  • Also a part of BACS Data Center team that manages and maintains our proprietary  data center for cloud services.  • Performed system analysis, documentation, testing, implementation and user  support.  • Consulted infrastructure overhaul for client SAP and Exchange systems which was  completed within 4-day timeframe with very low business impact  • Completed migration of new client cloud infrastructure to BACS data center within one week and no budget impact INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSOCIATE The Kanavel Group - San Jose, CA February 2017 to December 2017 Focus of systems administration over multiple school networks and any IT  troubleshooting needs.  • Maintenance and backup/updating of site servers/hardware and database systems.  • Utilization of MDM, ticketing, VPN, Identity Management, Internet Content Filtering,  Firewall/Firewall monitoring, Citrix, Wireless networking, Communications  hardware, Backup tools, and network management software.  • Acting as liaison between Kanavel Group and our client schools, ensuring client  satisfaction with all work in progress or completed.  • Manage any IT project needs that arise.  • Created training exercises to help education staff better understand the technology  in use and their ability to utilize it.  • Demonstrated professionalism and courtesy with customers while working to resolve complaints, problems or respond to questions. Education BS in IT/Cybersecurity Arizona State University February 2017 to Present BS in Economics San Jose State University Skills Cisco (3 years), DNS (3 years), Firewalls (3 years), Linux (3 years), Mac (5 years), MAC OS. (5 years), networking (3 years), Python (2 years), Scripting (2 years), Windows Server (5 years), Windows (8 years), System Administrator (3 years), Vmware (5 years), Active Directory (5 years) Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/iib6im-s6pmxj4rf Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/m4pglpddrii1gjnu Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.