Quality Systems Coordinator Quality <span class="hl">Systems</span> Coordinator Quality Systems Coordinator - Gerard Daniel Worldwide Fontana, CA Looking for the opportunity to put my skills and experience to work for your company by acquiring a position in your quality department. Work Experience Quality Systems Coordinator Gerard Daniel Worldwide October 2017 to Present • Assigned responsibility for scheduling auditors and conducting internal ISO 9001:2015 & AS9100 Rev. D audits.  • Conduct & document Management Review Meetings sessions. ISO 9001-2015 & AS9100 Rev. D  • Coordinate with the personnel in the relevant departments for development of detailed procedures and initiate actions for implementation.  • Motivates staff to work effectively with all production operations temps/associates to maintain high level of quality production output.  • Member of the Lean Team assisting the Manufacturing engineer with designs and plan production.  • Resolving equipment malfunctions related to statistical process control (SPC) issues. American National Manufacturing, Inc February 2015 to October 2017 • Responsible for controlling all internal and customer provided documentation and ensuring that only the most current approved revision is accessible for use by employees.  • Responsible for processing customer Change Notices to ensure that their product DMRs at our facility have the most current revision accessible and to ensure that all internal documentation meet the customer's requirements.  • Ability to interact and coordinate with internal and external business partners  • Initiated and chaired weekly ECO/ECR meetings  • Manage creation, routing and data input of Bill of Materials, ECOs, ECRs, and ISO documents  • Help maintain an effective Quality Management System by developing procedures, work instructions and forms as necessary and assisting with internal audits and corrective/preventative action system.  • Facilitate Quality Engineer with presentations and meetings. Quality Assurance Administrator West Rock April 2014 to February 2015 • Responsible for making daily agendas for three fully staffed shifts.  • Accountable for inventory levels, shipping and receiving documentation and traceability.  • Reconciliation of merchandise against volume and descriptions.  • Troubleshooting order discrepancies using detailed purchase order information and descriptions.  • Relay messages between multiple out of state sites using exceptional interpersonal communication.  • Maintain Quality Retention Records  • Proficient with Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, As400 Education Associates Degree in Health Care Administration in Health Care Administration University of Phoenix 2010 to 2013 Associate Degree in Engineering Technology Chaffey College Skills TIME MANAGEMENT, Auditing, Quality Assurance, Quality Improvement, Process Improvement, Quality Control