Information Systems Technician II Information <span class="hl">Systems</span> Technician II Information Systems Technician II at Contra Costa County EHSD Crockett, CA IT technician of 9 years. I am seeking a permanent full-time position. High proficiency with Microsoft Office Suite and Office 365. Windows 7 & Windows 10 certified. Mac, A/V, printing and VoIP experienced. Seeking Desktop Support, Systems Administrator, Network Administrator and Cyber Security positions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Systems Technician II Contra Costa County Employment and Human Services - Pleasant Hill, CA January 2019 to Present • Methods and techniques used in trouble shooting various computer hardware problems  • Operational characteristics of various computer equipment  • Respond to and identify user needs and determine resolutions  • Learn methods and techniques of system design, programming and software installation  • Learn principles and practices of computer science and information systems  • Learn to recommend, design, implement and install computer software applications  • Learn to assist in the operation and maintenance of computer equipment  • Learn to trouble shoot computer equipment problems  • Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing  • Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the course of work  • The methods and techniques of system design, programming and software installation  • Principles and practices of computer science and information systems  • Principles and practices of software troubleshooting  • Operational characteristics of various computer hardware and software applications  • Recommend, design, implement and install computer software applications  • Apply a wide variety of computer programming languages  • Assist in the operation and maintenance of computer equipment  • Trouble shoot computer equipment problems  • Learn operational characteristics of mainframe and network operating systems  • Learn operational characteristics of local and wide area network systems  • Learn to monitor, maintain and administer a variety of network operating systems  • Learn to monitor and maintain local and wide area networks  • Installs, tests and configures hardware components and additions to network sites  • Relocates data equipment and telecommunication lines  • Receives requests for assistance regarding desk top and computer related problems including hardware, software and peripheral printers and related equipment and determines severity of problems and resolves or refers to the appropriate staff or vendor  • Participates in the planning, implementation and installation of new desktop computer units and peripherals  • Confers with information services staff in the evaluation, selection, acquisition and implementation of computer hardware and/or software solutions  • Answers phone calls to support customers with computer, peripheral and other technical problems  • Troubleshoots equipment problems to ensure functional operation; performs minor repairs on computer equipment; and creates new data plugs, replaces cables and makes necessary adjustments  • Opens and actively tracks technical incidents to meet team's service level obligations  • Coordinates major equipment repairs; locates vendors and ships parts as needed for repairs; and arranges for vendors to perform on-site repairs  • Performs system administration functions including monitoring or adding applications, users and devices, modifying user profiles, resetting passwords and file maintenance  • Coordinates and conducts user training, education and problem-solving sessions; counsels users regarding system functionality; and develops documentation for user problem-solving including system and user manuals  • Performs a variety of duties in the installation, configuration and troubleshooting of hardware and software applications and equipment related to local or wide area networks  • Attends and participates in professional group meetings and keeps abreast of new trends and innovations in the field of information systems support and analysis Senior IT Technician Touro University - Vallejo, CA February 2018 to January 2019 • Windows 7/10 environment, Active Directory & Exchange Server. ServiceDesk Ticket system.  • Installs, tests and configures hardware components and additions to network sites(Polycom VoIP)  • Install/configure A/V video conference units on site, specifically Polycom units.  • Troubleshoot equipment issues via phone/video conference and remotely.  • Relocates data equipment and telecommunication lines  • Receives requests for assistance regarding desk top and computer related problems including  hardware, software and peripheral printers and related equipment and determines severity of problems and resolves or refers to the appropriate staff or vendor  • Participates in the planning, implementation and installation of new desktop computer units and peripherals (Video conferencing used, Polycom VoIP systems)  • Confers with information services staff in the evaluation, selection, acquisition and implementation of computer hardware and/or software solutions  • Answers phone calls to support customers with computer, peripheral and other technical  problems  • Troubleshoots equipment problems to ensure functional operation; performs minor repairs on computer equipment; and creates new data plugs, replaces cables and makes necessary  adjustments  • Opens and actively tracks technical incidents to meet team's service level obligations  • Coordinates major equipment repairs; locates vendors and ships parts as needed for repairs; and arranges for vendors to perform on-site repairs  • Performs system administration functions including monitoring or adding applications, users and devices, modifying user profiles, resetting passwords and file maintenance  • Coordinates and conducts user training, education and problem-solving sessions; counsels  users regarding system functionality; and develops documentation for user problem-solving  including system and user manuals, VPN related issues  • Performs a variety of duties in the installation, configuration and troubleshooting of hardware and software applications and equipment related to local or wide area networks  2 Information Systems Technician I Contra Costa County Health Services - Information Technology - Concord, CA May 2017 to December 2017 Supervisor: Alan Ly - 925-957-7272    • Installs, tests and configures hardware components and additions to network sites(Polycom VoIP)  • Install/configure A/V video conference units on site, specifically Polycom units.  • Troubleshoot equipment issues via phone/video conference and remotely.  • Relocates data equipment and telecommunication lines  • Receives requests for assistance regarding desk top and computer related problems including  hardware, software and peripheral printers and related equipment and determines severity of problems and resolves or refers to the appropriate staff or vendor  • Participates in the planning, implementation and installation of new desktop computer units and peripherals (Video conferencing used, Polycom VoIP systems)  • Confers with information services staff in the evaluation, selection, acquisition and implementation of computer hardware and/or software solutions  • Answers phone calls to support customers with computer, peripheral and other technical  problems  • Troubleshoots equipment problems to ensure functional operation; performs minor repairs on computer equipment; and creates new data plugs, replaces cables and makes necessary  adjustments  • Opens and actively tracks technical incidents to meet team's service level obligations  • Coordinates major equipment repairs; locates vendors and ships parts as needed for repairs; and arranges for vendors to perform on-site repairs  • Performs system administration functions including monitoring or adding applications, users and devices, modifying user profiles, resetting passwords and file maintenance  • Coordinates and conducts user training, education and problem-solving sessions; counsels  users regarding system functionality; and develops documentation for user problem-solving  including system and user manuals, VPN related issues  • Performs a variety of duties in the installation, configuration and troubleshooting of hardware and software applications and equipment related to local or wide area networks  • Attends and participates in professional group meetings and keeps abreast of new trends and innovations in the field of information systems support and analysis System Administrator Freedom Mobility Center - Rodeo, CA November 2010 to May 2017 Supervisor: Serina Breen - 800-350-7033 Ext. 78    • System Administration  • Network Administrator  • Computer Technician  • Office 365 experienced.  • Create and confirm delivery tickets and various documents for company processing.  • Maintain database for repair intakes and scheduling  • Installs, tests and configures hardware components and additions to network sites(Polycom VoIP)  • Install/configure A/V video conference units on site, specifically Polycom units.  • Troubleshoot equipment issues via phone/video conference and remotely.  • Managed VC/AV configurations and support.  • Customer Service & Installed and maintained POS system for retail store.  • Maintain thirty computers and one server  • Scheduled maintenance involving updates, software and hardware updates, troubleshoot,  diagnose, repair and cleaning.  • Maintain the SOHO (small office home office) network  • All computers are PCs. Windows XP, Vista and 7 and the server is Microsoft Server 2008  • All computers operate Microsoft Word, Excel, Visio, Outlook 2007 and above. Other programs  used are Adobe Acrobat 8 through 10, Maximizer, CPR+.  • Often maintenance on four printers involving software updates, ink refills and cleaning.    3 Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Western Governors University 2013 to 2017 High school or equivalent John Swett High School - Crockett, CA August 2002 to June 2006 Skills MAINTENANCE (7 years), SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION (7 years), SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (7 years), VOIP (7 years), DATABASE (6 years), Help Desk, Service Desk, Desktop Support, Helpdesk Support, Tech Support Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/joe-pallotta-iv-8b8007b0 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Security+ CompTIA Project+ CompTIA Linux+ CIW Web Design Specialist CIW Web Foundations Associate MTA Microsoft Technology Associate Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/p28vczxvxofxnfzs Basic Computer Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sepzkkk25plq41s Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xocj0mjedjdnfkoe Problem Solving — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lhi83qresvvhtx-w Email Skills — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/magyhik960k-2jsh Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to prioritize and allocate time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nl0g-du8i1-fv4o Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS    Help Desk  ? Office 365  ? HEAT ticketing system  ? ConnectWise ticketing system  ? ServiceDesk ticketing system  ? Mac & MacBook PRO  ? A\V experienced.  ? Citrix applications (Citrix Receiver, EPIC, AppCenter, etc.)  ? Lotus Notes  ? Active Directory & Exchange Server  ? Document Control  ? System Administration  ? iPhone and iPad experienced.  ? Maintain and design network and system security.  ? Database design, update and maintenance.  ? Project management from beginning to close.  ? Web design, updating and maintenance.  ? Able to troubleshoot, install, and maintain Microsoft OS (Windows 95/98/2000/XP/Vista/7)  ? Excellent knowledge of with Microsoft Suite (Word, Excel, Outlook, Access, Visio, PowerPoint)  ? Excellent knowledge of remote systems such as Remote Desktop Support and SCCM.  ? Working knowledge of using the MMC (Microsoft Management Console)  ? Skilled in partitioning hard drives and allocating space  ? Installation of security software (Spyware, Adware, and Malware detection and removal)  ? Experienced in PC upgrades (RAM, video cards, motherboards, hard drives, sound card)  ? Skilled at performing system optimization (defrag, disc cleanup, backup)  ? Able to troubleshoot, install and maintain peripherals  ? Implementing, managing and troubleshooting hardware devices and drivers.  ? Working knowledge of TCP/IP, DHCP, and DNS.  ? Networking (VPN and VoIP services as well)