Systems Administator <span class="hl">Systems</span> Administator Albion, IN Administration for over 10 years experience. Along with customer service, account receivable, accounts payable, purchasing, data entry, invoicing, and inventory control. No limited to other duties. Detailed oriented with great organization skills. Well at maintaining confidentiality and achieve companies goals. Great computer skills and multi-tasking. Willing to go above and beyond to get the job done. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administator QIG, LLC - Columbia City, IN January 2017 to July 2019 • Administrator for SharePoint Site  • Outlook  • Coordinator for ISO accreditation 9001 and 17025.   • Creating new documents  • Planning schedules maintenance  • Job tracking.   • Placing OSHA requirements in place.   • Hardware and software upgrade  • Project coordination.  • Daily time entry   • Ran report for General Manager  • Created weekly progress report for customers  • Created production working instructions   • Wrote working procedures  • PowerApps   • Office 365 Administrator C&A Tool - Churubusco, IN May 2013 to July 2017 • communicated with vendors regarding back order availability  • Future inventory and special orders.   • Accounts receivable and payable  • Provided an elevated customer experience to generate a loyal clientele.   • Recommended selected and helped locate and obtain out of stock product based on customer request.   • Effectively communicated with and supported sales, marketing, and administrative teams on a daily bases.   • Handled daily paperwork and cooperated with accounting department on invoicing and shipping issues.  • Scheduled weekly inventory pickups and deliveries with vendor.  • Ensured customer experience by addressing the customer concerns and problem solving on the issues.   • Helped drive sales goals and achieve monthly quotes.   • Routinely answered the customer concerns.   • Oversaw inventory and current jobs running on floor.   • Managed calendar and coordinated weekly projects team meetings. Custom cnc machinest 80/20 inc. - Columbia City, IN January 2011 to May 2014 • Worked directly from blueprints.   • Selected aligned and secured holding fixtures, cutting tools, attachments, accessories and material on a HAAS CNC.  • Detected in reported malfunctions and out of tolerance machining.   • Assembled and set variations boring, slotting, and turning heads.   • Removed burrs on all machined parts. Monitored speed and feeds Education Diploma in Business Carroll High School - Fort Wayne, IN August 1999 to May 2003 Skills Outlook (6 years), Microsoft excels (4 years), Microsoft word (5 years), Time management, Dedicated team player, Ar/Ap (4 years), Meeting Planning (5 years), Scheduling, Self starter, Sharepoint, Sharepoint Administrator (2 years), System Administrator (10+ years), Purchasing (4 years) Additional Information Customer service oriented. Invoice processing. Conference Planning. Job tracking. Scheduling. Customer service. Administrative support. Print reading. Advanced clerical knowledge. Administrative of SharePoint. Creating new documents. Audit Admin for ISO 9001 and 17025. Admin for safety and OSHA requirements. Creating charts for progress reports.