Unix Systems Administrator - School of Computer Science Unix <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - School of Computer Science Unix Systems Administrator - Carnegie Mellon University - School of Computer Science Pittsburgh, PA Work Experience Unix Systems Administrator - School of Computer Science Carnegie Mellon University - Pittsburgh, PA 2017 to Present Support end user desktops running Ubuntu 16.04 and 18.04 in a research computing environment.  ? Update desktops from EOL versions of Ubuntu, while maintaining configurations and user data.  ? Support HPC Clusters running ROCKS 6/7.  ? Support of storage arrays using Dell PERC controllers, as well as ZFS storage pools.  ? Design, deploy and support Singularity containers for research computing environments.  ? Design and architect new incoming HPC Clusters.  ? Direct consulting with researchers and departments for ideal hardware and software solutions.  ? Expertise in CPU and GPU solutions for HPC, focusing on Intel and Nvidia.  ? Direct vendor consulting for purchasing and issue resolution for incoming HPC hardware.  ? Assist in the development of best practices for Singularity environments.  ? Setup and maintain JBOD Arrays with ZFS in RAIDZ2 & RAIDZ3.  ? Expertise in racking equipment from APC, Dell, Exxact, Mellanox.  ? Familiar with bash scripting, Ansible and python.  ? Assist in the development of new cluster and desktop deployment systems via Ansible.  ? Responsible for ServiceNow support queue of incoming incidents. Senior Systems Administrator - School Carnegie Mellon University - Pittsburgh, PA 2015 to 2017 Maintained and updated MDT Environment for incoming hardware changes.  ? Maintained and updated Windows and Office images for deployment without multiple patch cycles.  ? Tested and verified upcoming Windows build changes across supported hardware suite for compatibility and issue remediation.  ? Designed and implemented a new Exchange 2013 environment.  ? Designed and implemented a Microsoft Data Protection Management system to handle backups and restoration of lost data for Exchange 2013  ? Trained new incoming Systems Administrators.  ? Wrote several high level business documents for migration SCS services into larger campus offerings (Active Directory, Exchange, KMS etc.)  ? Designed OU structures for AD migration, wrote appropriate GPOs for new OUs.  ? Wrote transition documentation and playbooks for systems and services for incoming admins.  ? Continued working in Windows environment while transitioning to Unix environment to ensure clean, detailed hand offs of responsibilities. Systems Administrator - School of Computer Science Carnegie Mellon University - Pittsburgh, PA 2014 to 2015 Maintained and repaired project servers for faculty and staff.  ? Administered 200+ Apple desktops and laptops via JAMF Casper Suite.  ? Maintained WSUS servers and authorized patches for servers and user desktops school wide.  ? Oversaw the Windows Server 2003 End of Life, including migrating user data and guiding their upgrade decisions.  ? Administered Exchange 2007 backend for mail and account issues. Validated proper backups. Initial road mapping of Exchange 2013 Upgrade and migration.  ? Handled high priority faculty and staff directly to resolve complex technical issues.  ? Handled emergency patching procedures to safeguard key infrastructure from security vulnerabilities.  ? Updated NetBoot images for JAMF Casper Imaging Suite as well as Apple AST Servers.  ? Administered Active Directory for new user account creation, system removal and retirements.  ? Worked with Operations team to recover and restore lost data from failed storage arrays or dead drives. UPMC Citrix Operating System Engineer UPMC Corporate Services - Pittsburgh, PA 2012 to 2014 Setup and maintained server infrastructure for the distribution of virtualized applications.  ? Virtualized and deployed new application via Microsoft App-V.  ? Setup, maintained and provided troubleshooting of Citrix XenApp 4.5 and 6.5 environments.  ? Handled application upgrades and overnight deployments for patient critical applications.  ? Installed and configured new IBM Blades both directly and remotely via IP KVM Web Interface.  ? Tested new Citrix applications in both Windows and OS X based environments.  ? Directly interfaced with application requesters and owners to cater to their needs to the Citrix and Windows Server environment.  ? Worked with Group Policies to employ restrictions and user configurations across 55,000 PCs Company wide.  ? Deployed and configured virtual servers via VMWare vCenter vSphere client.  ? Administered server configurations, user profile configurations, access restrictions, and wireless network access via Active Directory. UPMC Mercy Senior PC Consultant UPMC Corporate Services - Pittsburgh, PA 2011 to 2012 Supported user problems and log repair process and solutions using the HP Service Center ticket queue.  ? Locally and remotely updated applications for users through UPMC Mercy.  ? Educated and supported users on the operation of their new computer system both Windows and OS X based.  ? Setup and maintained physician access on iPads, iPhones & Apple Computers for private wireless networks, as well as Citrix access for distributed Windows based applications via UPMC Connect & MyApps.  ? Utilized active directory to create/move resources into the appropriate OU.    UPMC Mass Deployment Team LanTEK - Pittsburgh, PA 2010 to 2010 Supported the deployment of new hardware, software, and operating systems for all locations in the UPMC Health System.  ? Locally and remotely surveyed computers to gather software/hardware requirements. Imaged systems for deployment utilizing previously gathered survey results.  ? Delivered new hardware systems to end-users at scheduled appointment time.  ? Backed-up user data on existing machine using automated and manual methods. Restored data to pre-deployment location and verified operation of new system with user.  ? Educated and supported users on the operation of new computer systems.  ? Provided technical support to all UPMC departments on software and hardware issues.  ? Utilized active directory to create/move resources into the appropriate organizational unit (OU). Education High School Diploma Kiski Area High School - Vandergrift, PA 2001 to 2005 Skills Hpc, Infiniband, Linux, Redhat, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, Red Hat, Shell Additional Information SKILLS    Ubuntu 16.04 - 18.04    Windows 7/10/Server 2008 - 2016    Apple OS X 10.4 - 10.14    CentOS 6/7    HPC    ZFS    Singularity    Infiniband    ServiceNow