Technology Sales Associate Technology Sales Associate TS/SCI | Network Administrator | Systems Administrator | PC Techician Tampa, FL CompTIA A+ and CompTIA Security + certified highly technical U.S. Air Force veteran with years of experience in Management and Operations is looking to provide added value by contributing both military and civilian education and experience in a Network or Systems Administrator role. Astute and self-motivated with a passion for computer systems and known as a dedicated professional with a history of exceptional performance and the proven ability to offer top-quality technical solutions. Able to employ creative approaches and meet or exceed all designated objectives. Capable of working alone or as a member of a team, and comfortable exercising initiative and solving problems. Security Clearance: TS/SCI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technology Sales Associate Staples - Brandon, FL July 2019 to Present • Responsible for maintaining an Inspired Selling culture in the Mobile and Technology department.  • Committed to offering every customer a total solution for his/her mobile and technology needs.  • Responsible for ensuring the Mobile and Technology department achieves key metrics, including  profitable sales.  • Offers solutions to our customers that meet their needs.  • Possess extensive knowledge of the product assortments, carrier plans and offerings, as well as tech  services available. Systems Administrator US Air Force Reserve, Homestead ARB July 2019 to Present • Provided networked application resources by designing, configuring, installing, and managing data services, operating systems and server-based applications.  • Provided directory services utilizing dynamically-assigned IP addresses, Domain Name Server, network storage devices, and electronic messaging resources.  • Managed secure authentication methods utilizing public key infrastructure (PKI) technologies and procedures. Standardizes user privileges and system settings using automated deployment tools such as Group Policy Management Console (GMPC) and System Management Server.  • Implemented server and special mission system security fixes, operating system patches, and antivirus software. Occupational Safety Health Specialist U.S. Air Force July 2013 to July 2019 • Planned, organized, and directed EOD operations. Developed operational orders/plans, instructions, concepts of operation, and safety plans (ORM Assessments) concerning EOD employment.  • Transported demolition explosives and equipment to authorized disposal areas, fabricated explosive demolition charges, and disposed of hazardous devices, ordnance and explosives.  • Prepared clearance/logistical plans and cost estimates for operational range clearance operations.  • Provided hazardous materials (HAZMAT) response capability for incidents involving explosive ordnance.  • Employed specialized tools, techniques and personal protective equipment to detect/identify EOD objectives and to accomplish diagnostics, monitoring, evaluation, interrogation, mitigation, render safe, recovery, and disposal operations on ordnance/devices delivered, placed, or made dangerous by accident/incident or other circumstance.  • Utilized and maintained 100% accountability of $1.4 million in advanced equipment, such as, robotics, x-ray, landmine and CBRN detection equipment. Education Bachelor Degree in Cyber Security University of South Florida - Tampa, FL January 2022 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, SWITCHING, INTRUSION, NETWORKING, DATABASE, SYSTEM ANALYSIS, MAINTENANCE, PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE, CUSTOMER SERVICE Links http://linkedin.com/in/louis-simpson-17579718b Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ December 2018 to December 2021 CompTIA Security+ July 2019 to July 2022