E.H.R Systems Administrator E.H.R <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Jamaica, NY Would like to obtain a position as a Help Desk Support or Jr. Network Associate. Work Experience E.H.R Systems Administrator Well Life Network - College Point, NY April 2018 to May 2019 Systems Administrator E.H.R April 2018 to May 2019 • Provided Help Desk technical support and admin support for Non-Profit Agency end-users.  • Assisted in documenting, tracking, and monitoring problems to ensure a timely resolution.  • Responded to telephone calls, emails and personal requests.  • Provided case status updates to both management and end-users.  • Trained, supported and maintained effective relationships with users personally or by WebEx  • Maintained software and created system user accounts in accordance with Agency policies and procedures.  • Responsible for the setup and maintenance of the electronic billing systems and related EDI.  • Responsible for the systems administration of the organization's E.H.R 's billing system and related applications.  • Assisted in the preparation of user manuals and technical documentations for the Agency.  • Interfaced with vendors to resolve system software updates and billing issues.  • Installed, configured, tested, monitored, maintained, and troubleshooted systems patches and software upgrades within the organizations E.H.R., billing systems and related applications. Sr. Revenue Cycle Associate April 2015 to March 2018 Responsible for billing 9individual ICF Residential Mental Health programs, 3 Community Residential Mental Health programs, and 7 HCBS Mental Health programs. This is on a weekly and monthly basis, using Avatar, Navicure, Netsmart Cloud, Medicaid Exchange and the Medicaid Dashboard, with additional RCM projects as needed. All claims may have totaled over $2,500,000.00 on a monthly billing cycle. Execu/Search- QLIMG-Advantage Care Physicians - Garden City, NY June 2014 to April 2015 Temporary Medical Biller Assignment    • Helped to investigate and analyze problem accounts to resolve issues using Excel database reports, for Commercial, WC/NF insurances and pending claims for a smoother transition into the EPIC system. Used data complied to compose and edit logical, detailed, comprehensive and grammatically correct correspondence for user knowledge. Assistant Billing Manager American Comprehensive Medical Group, Inc - Brooklyn, NY August 2013 to April 2014 • Supervision of 10 staff members in the Central Billing Office.  • Assisted in preparing monthly ad hoc reports of underpaid and recovered managed care payments for regular Contract Compliance meeting with executive management members, as necessary.  • Provided assistance/recommendations in developing strategies for improving accuracy of compliance module, which helped reduce false positive variances.  • Aided in the administration of the global package/case rate programs, which consisted of compiling data through GE's DBMS application for each case and developed reports to correctly administrator payments across all departments within the scope of the contract. Long Island Plastic Surgical Group, PC - Garden City, NY December 2011 to May 2013 • Working A/R aging reports for collections by prominent leading Plastic Surgeons.  • Appeals and Grievance's to third-party payers, HMOs, PPOs, Medicare, Medicaid, workers' compensation (WC) carriers and independent commercial carriers.  • Collected on delinquent accounts by establishing payment arrangements with patients that include monitoring payments as well as following up with payments when lapses occur. Education Comptia A+, CCENT/ CCNA Bootcamp Certifications The Technical Institute of America - New York, NY April 2019 to Present Albert Einstein School of Medicine 1991 Skills Sms, Visio, Citrix, Epic, Idx Additional Information Skills:  ADS, Citrix, Crystal Reports 2008, EPIC, IDX, MED. MNGR, NEXTECH, OMNIPRO, SMS (EAGLE)  Visio 2016,    Microsoft Office Suites 2016(Access, Excel, PowerPoint, Word).  World Wide Web: E-Paces (eMedNY), Emdeon Office, NaviNet, Netsmart Cloud etc.