Mac and PC technician Mac and PC technician Mac and PC technician Work Experience Mac and PC technician ComputerWiz Print 2009 to 2016 Systems Administrator ComputerWiz Print 2009 to 2016 Providing Windows/Linux/Mac administration, LAN/WAN/VPN administration, VMware, Hyper-V, Active Directory, PowerShell, WSUS, MS System Center, WDS.  Mac Experience: Imaging and deploying Macs, jamf and Apple Remote Desktop. Working with backups through Time Machine and Time Capsule.  Restoring and repairing iOS and Android devices.  Managing FTP/web servers, wireless access points, firewalls, pfSense, FreeNAS.    Key Contributions:  • Evaluated and reconfigured company's server infrastructure, including server consolidation via  virtualization to engineer a robust, scalable solution.  • Researched, recommended and implemented network enhancements that improved system  reliability and performance.  • Set up backup and disaster recovery systems for various clients.  • Configured a comprehensive imaging and OS deployment infrastructure with automation.    General expertise in a wide spectrum of IT. Including the main pillars of networking, storage, virtualization and security.  Networking- IP, DHCP, DNS, firewalls, switches, routers, access points, VLANs, VPNs, web  servers.  Storage- RAID, LVM, Storage Spaces, ZFS, data recovery, imaging and deployment, iSCSI, SMB, NFS.  Virtualization- Hyper-V, VMware ESXi, KVM, Docker, network and storage virtualization  Deep knowledge of Linux internals (including the entire stack, from bootloaders and drivers, to package management and systemd). Familiar with all major distributions (CentOS, Debian,  Ubuntu, SUSE)  Windows and Mac troubleshooting. Repairs that entail fixing corrupted applications or an OS without reinstallation through tracing utilities like Process Monitor. PowerShell and Bash  scripting.  Security- Web security, hardening, penetration testing ComputerWiz Print - Brooklyn, NY 2007 to 2016 Mac repair technician ComputerWiz Print 2007 to 2016 Education City College of Technology 2009 to 2015 Kingsborough Community College 2006 to 2008 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/garegin-asatryan-6a2492113