IT CONSULTANT IT CONSULTANT Bartlett, IL Fast-learning, hard-worker with proven ability to increase efficiency, productivity and convenience with bespoke solutions. Seeking to bring the best out of a company through unique insights and comforting professionalism. Work Experience IT CONSULTANT K3TEK January 2013 to Present § Researched, purchased, built and deployed entire office network and workstations in both company headquarters and international branch.  § Set up laptops, cell phones and remote access to allow for off-site productivity.  § Installed, updated and customized drafting software to maximize productivity and compatibility with partners.  § Acquired learning material for Autodesk AutoCAD, Autodesk Revit, Trimble Tekla and Bluebeam Revu.  § Helped users grasp features of Tekla structural engineering software to improve workflow and quality of work.  § Conferred with users to discern IT needs and goals, then researched and reported on potential IT projects.  § Upgraded workstations to meet the demands of new, industry-leading 3D design software.  § Planned and executed cloud-based solutions for international collaboration, training and data-sharing.  § Diagnosed poor computer performance and browser anomalies, discovering malware and safely removing it.  § Recovered data from non-functional and compromised computers, minimizing lost work.  § Remotely assisted international users with IT issues and walked them through solutions. EXPORT TEAM LEAD PACTRANS GLOBAL LLC February 2018 to October 2018 § Coordinated export team to meet time-sensitive objectives quickly and efficiently.  § Held daily team meetings to focus team efforts and prioritize tasks.  § Coordinated hour-by-hour with local and international companies to meet time windows for complex, time-sensitive shipments.  § Maintained relationships with network of shipping partners to provide versatile, fast and cost-effective service for any shipment type.  § Maintained calendar system to track shipments milestones and projected dates, allowing for easier team communication and automated email updates sent to customers.   § Investigated issues with shipments and executed solutions, while keeping customers informed and reassured.  § Increased customer confidence by implementing ERP-linked online shipment tracker.  § Increased efficiency with automated loading plans allowing for full utilization of container space and removing danger and guesswork from the process of load planning.  § Implemented an excel-based database to produce dock receipts and packing lists, improving accuracy and usability of documents while reducing data-entry workload.  § Instructed team members in export documentation and procedure, then provided guidance for them while handling actual shipments.  § Filed customs with US Automated Export System.  § Issued bills of lading for domestic transport and both air and sea export shipments.  § Reviewed contracts with steamship lines and presented terms to company president.  SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR PACTRANS GLOBAL LLC January 2018 to October 2018 § Restored access to compromised VMware virtual machines, restoring 15 years of customer records and data, including 4 million dollars in uncollected payments.  § Migrated recovered data to current systems and created accessible backups to preserve SOX compliance.  § Monitored antivirus and firewall, investigating and reporting on anomalous activity after potential intrusion.  § Reduced costs and increased productivity by migrating outdated phone system to cloud-based VOIP service.  § Increased revenue streams by introducing POS terminals and online payment portals.  § Migrated on-site servers to more secure and easier to manage cloud-hosting.  § Wrote detailed procedures for data recovery for ERP databases and for email.  § Implemented workarounds for ERP bugs to preserve business continuity before vendor could publish fixes.  § Utilized SQL basics for in-depth management of ERP and timeclock system.  § Maintained on-site server and network resources including server rack, Cisco firewall, uninterruptible power supplies, routers, modems and switches to ensure availability of network and data.  § Troubleshot and resolved IT issues for users and addressed their IT concerns in a timely fashion to prevent lost productivity and protect morale.  § Increased efficiency and accountability by implementing access logs, searchable document digitization, barcode scanning and real-time inventory database.  § Presented IT projects to executive management, clients and partners, enhancing trust in the company’s IT capabilities and creating awareness of potentially useful IT resources.  § Made and executed business continuity plans that allowed business to continue and preserve availability of data despite internet, Office365 email and SaaS ERP outages.  § Trained users and clients to effectively use CargowiseOne ERP software, including module-specific training sessions and tips to improve workflow.  § Made announcements through emails and face-to-face meetings with users to keep them informed of downtime due to pushing system-wide updates, new security policies and improvements to digital work processes.  § Served as point-of-contact for IT vendors to negotiate contracts, minimize downtime in accordance with service level agreements and obtain high-level support.   § Educated users to practice more secure habits and to avoid malware and phishing.  § Setup and deactivated user accounts in ERP and Active Directory, allowing new employees to be productive immediately and keep terminated employees from poaching data.  § Managed user permissions in accordance with “least privilege,” preventing users from violating segregation of duties and breaching confidentiality.  § Set-up VPN access for off-site users to work through remote desktop services.  § Set-up, monitored and repaired printers and typewriters.  § Maximized utility of defunct computers and appliances by repurposing their hardware to upgrade current ones.  § Inventoried hardware, software and cloud resources to maximize IT utility.  § Created gold image of Windows 10 with all necessary applications to efficiently deploy and repair workstations.   § Designed logos and letterheads for official company documents.   § Created search engine optimized websites linked to account-based shipment/inventory tracker for clients. Education CERTIFICATE KELLER GRADUATE SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT - Elgin, IL 2016 BACHELOR OF ARTS UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS - Champaign, IL 2012 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/i-iimhmhqqo8kqyj Critical Thinking — Expert July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fux-mqjxlger-ple Problem Solving — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4mnpepnbvagjcq6m Research — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to follow protocols, interpret statistics and graphs, identify errors, and choose research methodology. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wgvwr0k4hlkkgio3 Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/azs-znjw37tjc75k Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information * Adobe Acrobat  * Active Directory  * Microsoft Excel  * Microsoft Windows  * Autodesk AutoCAD  * WiseTech CargowiseOne  * WiseTech ediEnterprise  * Office 365  * Microsoft Azure    * Adobe Photoshop  * VMware  * ERP Implementation  * Business Continuity  * Disaster Recovery  * Logistics  * Presentation