NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR NETWORK <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Peekskill, NY Work Experience NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Ellucian Company LP - Dobbs Ferry, NY April 2016 to July 2019 * A demonstrated record of success and achievement at this provider of software and services for Higher Education management, marked by a series of promotions to positions of increased influence, authority, and accountability.  * Serves as a trusted advisor and subject matter expert, investigating and resolving network performance issues and outages, as well as network connectivity on individual client devices.  * Excels in a SIEM environment, leveraging expertise in Wireshark, Splunk InfoSec and Burp Suite to review network activity logs to identify indications of malicious activity.  * Serves an integral role contributing to the success of ServiceNow triage, prioritizing response to information security incidents and helping the Incident Response Team in accelerating resolution.  * Defines and enhances a broad variety of information security measures, workstation security plans, and other forms of technical guidance for the organization.  * Ensures connectivity for users in staff areas, dormitories, and classroom environments through the configuration and ongoing administration of Cisco C3750x switches and Meraki access points. Overall, maintains accountability for wireless connectivity policy across four campuses, used by over 7000 faculty members and students.  * Secured 30% savings by negotiating pricing on hardware and services agreements with vendors.  * Exercises responsibility for maintaining inventory of all IT assets, developing network maps, and managing internal and external IP addressing and DNS. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Ellucian Company LP - Dobbs Ferry, NY May 2015 to April 2016 * Credited with maintaining the network at 98% uptime through the execution of server and network audits via Rapid 7 vulnerability tools, tracking system alerts, and implementing redundancy that served as the foundation for high availability.  * Eliminated 20% of user issues through the development of documentation and FAQs addressing the most frequent issues with ERP applications.  * Responsible for supporting a broad array of hardware, software, and infrastructure, including Office 365, HP and Canon printers, laptops, and desktop workstations. Skilled in supporting Windows, MacOS, and mobile devices.  * Ensured standardization and reliability of support by using Norton Ghost to build a custom Windows 10 image for deployment across all laptop and desktop computers.  * Leveraged expertise in Active Directory to administer permissions, access rights, and storage allocations for over 600 staff accounts.  * Maintained an updated command of new products, services, protocols, and standards to guide the selection of new technologies with features and functionality aligned with the unique needs of the organization.  * Improved data security through the use of Symantec Endpoint Protection Management Console and executed backups of mission-critical systems and information. TECHNICAL SUPPORT SPECIALIST Ellucian Company LP - Dobbs Ferry, NY May 2014 to May 2015 * Led the installation and ongoing support of hardware and peripherals that included monitors, keyboards, printers, scanners, network cards, and hard drives. Maximized efficiency and productivity to provide remote assistance using LogMeIn and Bomgar.  * Orchestrated and executed end user training to build competencies in the features of computers, AV systems, and software applications; led the training of Mercy College staff members following an organization-wide upgrade from Windows 7 to Windows 8.  * Introduced information security procedures and best practices to govern malware infections on Windows and MAC environment.  * Achieved distinction with selection as the Lead Technician to address technical issues during VIP meetings of college administrators. INVENTORY CONTROL ANALYST WeRecycle - Mount Vernon, NY July 2010 to November 2013 * Assumed a lead role in inventory control and analysis at this provider of electronics recycling services, including the development of CPU test stations and the training of employees to test RAM components for resale.  * Recognized for defining standards and best practices to govern the sale of equipment on eBay, leading to a 40% increase in revenue.  * Developed and coached new technicians and tracked performance to ensure compliance with standards.    EARLY CAREER  Technician, S&R Computers, Jefferson Valley, NY Education Bachelor of Science degree in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Western Governors University Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Information Systems Mercy College Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jouvelleaguiar524