L2 Technical Solutions Specialist L2 Technical Solutions Specialist L2 Technical Solutions Specialist - Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) Alpharetta, GA Securing, deploying, and maintaining networks, PCs, servers, and overall technology infrastructure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience L2 Technical Solutions Specialist Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) September 2018 to Present Key Responsibilities:  • Successfully resolve technical issues (hardware and software) from incoming internal or external businesses and end user's contacts and proactive notification systems.  • Respond to service, product, technical, and customer- relations questions on subjects such as features, specifications, and repairs on current and discontinued products, parts, and options, based on customer entitlement (warranty through mission-critical).  • Proactively assist internal or external businesses and end users to avoid or reduce problem occurrence.  • Ability to act as a team or project leader providing direction to team activities and facilitates information validation and team decision- making process.  • Review and may resolve complex business issues.  • Excellent communication skills. Add case resolution to KMS.  • Understand and utilize Information Technology Information Libraries (ITIL).  • Represent the company in a face to face customer location visit, industry conference/trade show, vendor meeting, etc.    Insight Global IT Consultant DPM Taxes - Conyers, GA January 2010 to Present Key Responsibilites  • Responsible for maintaining, and securing 13 machine environment (desktops, laptops, printers, and mobile devices) for the 2 primary users either on-site or remote connection.  • Operating System deployment/maintenance of Windows XP, 7, Server 2008, Linux Mint 14 Nadia, and Ubuntu Linux 12.04 LTS, 12.10.  • Image development and deployment through Norton Ghost  • Information backup/disaster recovery  • Advisement of staff about policies: Acceptable Use, Password, and Security  • Network security/troubleshooting (wired and wireless). 90% of duties information security advisement related.  • Virus removal (FBI virus removal - most recent incident)  • Advisement on hardware and software vendor selection.  System/Software Experience  • Windows Server 2008/2012  • Microsoft Exchange Server 2010/Outlook 2010, 2013  • Windows XP/7/8.x  • VMWare vSphere v 5.x, VMware player, vCenter, VirtualBox  • Windows and Linux command line.  • Web Servers - IIS7/8, Apache (Linux/Windows), ProxyPass (mod_proxy), SSL (linux command line - mod_ssl & Windows Server).  • Firewalls - Netgear ProSafe vpn, pfsense, OpenVPN  • Intuitive Voice Evolution PBX/X-Lite and Bria4 softphone  • Polycom Phone systems  • Remote Access - SimpleHelp, TeamViewer, Microsoft Remote Desktop  • Data Synchronization: Opus Web App (OWA)/OwaDataSync, rsync  • Lab and Live experience with network analyzing tools:  ? Wireshark  ? Nessus  ? Nmap / Zenmap  ? inSSIDer3 L2 Technical Solutions Specialist Contractor Hewlett Packard Enterprise July 2017 to September 2018 Key Responsibilities:  • Successfully resolve technical issues (hardware and software) from incoming internal or external businesses and end user's contacts and proactive notification systems.  • Respond to service, product, technical, and customer- relations questions on subjects such as features, specifications, and repairs on current and discontinued products, parts, and options, based on customer entitlement (warranty through mission-critical).  • Proactively assist internal or external businesses and end users to avoid or reduce problem occurrence.  • Ability to act as a team or project leader providing direction to team activities and facilitates information validation and team decision- making process.  • Review and may resolve complex business issues.  • Excellent communication skills. Add case resolution to KMS.  • Understand and utilize Information Technology Information Libraries (ITIL).  • Represent the company in a face to face customer location visit, industry conference/trade show, vendor meeting, etc. Sr. Systems Administrator Bridgeline Digital July 2016 to May 2017 Key Responsibilities:  • Management of Bridgeline Digital network infrastructure of 300 + physical and virtual servers hosted in Atlanta, GA (Primary Data Center), Florida Data Center, Boston corporate office, and each of the satellite office locations.  • Ensure continued PCI compliance for commerce websites hosted in Bridgeline Digital Atlanta datacenter.  • Deployment of development, stage and production environments including initial websites for new and existing customer projects.  • Respond to internal corporate tickets and external customer tickets for iAPPS and non-iAPPS related issues.  • Respond to outages and emergency tickets when paged in Pager Duty  • Ensure customers maintain 99.9% uptime in Pingdom as stated in their SLA agreement with Bridgeline Digital.  • Carry out any maintenance work during specified maintenance window(s).  • Manage tape backups for all servers.  • Work on projects related to the company's infrastructure. Sr. Systems Administrator Contractor for Bridgeline Digital APEX February 2016 to July 2016 Key Responsibilities:  • Management of Bridgeline Digital network infrastructure of 300 + physical and virtual servers hosted in Atlanta, GA (Primary Data Center), Florida Data Center, Boston corporate office, and each of the satellite office locations.  • Ensure continued PCI compliance for commerce websites hosted in Bridgeline Digital Atlanta datacenter.  • Deployment of development, stage and production environments including initial websites for new and existing customer projects.  • Respond to internal corporate tickets and external customer tickets for iAPPS and non-iAPPS related issues.  • Respond to outages and emergency tickets when paged in Pager Duty  • Ensure customers maintain 99.9% uptime in Pingdom as stated in their SLA agreement with Bridgeline Digital.  • Carry out any maintenance work during specified maintenance window(s).  • Manage tape backups for all servers.  • Work on projects related to the company's infrastructure. Systems Administrator/Support Technician OPUS Integrated Business Systems - Lawrenceville, GA December 2013 to December 2015 Key Responsibilities (Internal OPUS support):  • System Administration (Active Directory, Exchange Server, PBX, Update Management, VPN management, Server management & deployment of virtual servers in datacenter, workstation configuration for new employees)  • Workstation Support (OS migration, hardware selection, virus removal, software support)  • Network Administration in office and off-site data center (Outage resolution, site-to-site vpn connection, PBX administration, DNS, SSL maintenance)  Key Responsibilities (OPUS client support)  • Provide OPUS clients with support to resolve technical issues with the Southware ERP system hosted on Linux and Windows servers.  • Release management of quarterly Southware and cmss license updates for clients, verification of proper testing in OPUS development and support environments prior to implementation in client parallel environment for client testing before final release to production client environment.  • Release management of client projects across all environments used in project rollouts - OPUS development, OPUS QA, parallel (client site) and production (client site).  • Creation/maintenance of OPUS answer ready documentation used by OPUS staff for client support.  • Script development in Windows and Linux to solve custom needs of clients  ? Swactivex*.bat (Southware Activex registration script for 64-bit Windows clients)  ? BTPOLLdatDelete - Cronjob for deletion of .dat files created by Bartender label software  • Training of OPUS staff (and clients when needed) on technical documentation written for answer ready (i.e. deployment of MicroFocus 9.2.2 runtime and thin client in Linux, ThinClient icon creation on local and remote Windows systems).  • Technical support outside Southware and 3rd party add-on software for clients without onsite IT support including but not limited to: Domain and workgroup system administration, network troubleshooting, general technical consultation, resolution of security related issues.  Key Project-related responsibilities:  • New environment set up for development, QA, parallel, and production (server migration projects)  • Work with programmers and OPUS support staff throughout development process of new websites for OPUS clients.  • Network lead for technical area of all client projects Atlanta Computer Group 2014 to 2015 Migrated company from Windows Server 2003 to Windows Server 2012 environment (Remote Desktop, SQL/OWA, Southware)  ? Southware ERP migration  ? Development/Deployment of new website https://www.acgworld.com Professional Parts Group 2014 to 2014 Server migration - Windows Server 2003 to Windows Server 2008R2 (3)  • Allied Sales and Services:  ? Upgrade of Motorola handheld devices (2) to for compatibility with Opus Core Handheld webpages.  • ToolPro website (2014-2015):  ? Development/Deployment of new website https://toolpro.com (currently in progress)  ? Starship Server migration from Windows Server 2003 to Windows Server 2008R2  • Covenant Plumbing of Fayetteville Southware/Print Servers (2014):  ? Disaster recover of linux Southware server  ? Migration from Linux print server to Windows print server. Education Associate of Applied Science CIS in Applied Science CIS Gwinnett Technical College January 2010 to July 2013