Operation Support Analyst Operation Support Analyst Operation Support Analyst - Intercontinental Exchange Atlanta, GA A motivated Linux Systems Administrator with proven technical skill in a wide range of operating system platforms and support based system services including and not limited to troubleshooting, maintenance, hardware support, installation and configuration. Possesses strong communication skills and comfortable in team roles or individual focused positions with minimal supervision. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Operation Support Analyst Intercontinental Exchange September 2018 to Present • Identifying, analyzing and resolving system and application problems  • Ensure network and application capacity and uptime with monitoring performance.  • Troubleshooting application problems and outages, scheduling upgrades and collaborating with the Development team on system optimization.  • Work closely with members of Development team to pro-actively identify potential issues and fix existing problems as well as perform root cause analysis.  • Deployment of releases (major, minor and hot-fixes) and commit releases to subversion  • Deployment of new applications on servers as requested by the Development team  • Failover applications in an event of server downtime  • Carry out Production Refresh and change management task during maintenance window  • Version Control system with Subversion  • Patching applications in development, test, and production environments based on given patch cycles and times.  • Workload Automation with Tidal, control-M and IBM workload scheduler  • Application updates, upgrade, rollbacks and creating backups  • Fix Memory issues/ disk I/O on applications and schedule disk replacements on production servers  • Document special procedures required for continuous operations of systems and for emergency/disaster recovery, backup plans  • User Account Modification (Create new users, and update user accounts, add roles to existing users and password reset etc.)  • IT Change management, project management and ticketing with JIRA  • IT Incident and problem management and ticketing with ServiceNow  • Monitor jobs and ensure that if any error occurs, the appropriate recovery action is performed in a timely manner.  • ECR changes to mitigate/Fix production issues LINUX Systems Administrator Consolidated Data Storage - Alpharetta, GA October 2016 to August 2018 • Installation, configuration and administration of Redhat and CentOS, Oracle linux  • Provisioning Oracle database servers, Microsoft SQL servers  • Installation and configuration of LAMP stack for clients  • Server installation using various methods like kickstart, disk installation, VMware vdi images.  • Installation configure and maintained / troubleshoot Apache HTTP and Tomcat  • File space investigation and management  • Monitoring via Nagios and resolve issues in a timely manner.  • Creates user accounts, managed user privileges, managing disk space and setting up disk quotas for specific accounts  • Manage disk space using Logical Volume Manager (LVM), to dynamically create, resize, delete and extend file system non-destructively.  • Create filesystems using logical volumes and fstab update  • Adding disks in VMware and using pvcreate, vgcreate and lvcreate to create new filesystems.  • Install, configure and manage infrastructural services such as DNS, DHCP, NFS, FTP and Samba on servers.  • Patching development, test, and production servers based on given patch cycles and times.  • Install and manage packages using yum and rpm tools & Configured and set up NFS filesystem  • Configured and set up SSH access to enabled or disabled on virtual machines as required.  • Set up cron for schedule and repetitive jobs as required.  • Configure and set up network for newly created virtual servers.  • Install, configure and supports apache on virtual machines & Network connection troubleshooting, apache troubleshooting, management and support.  • Provide users with elevated privileges for special tasks  • Installed, configured Samba on virtual machines.  • VMware setup for clients using centos, RHEL, windows & Server hardening using pre-created scripts  • Troubleshoot systems, application errors and monitoring system logs.  • Installation and configuration of Nagios Monitoring tool and NRPE (Nagios remote plugin executor), and Chef  • Document special procedures required for continuous operations of systems and for emergency/disaster backup plans.  • Documents steps taken to resolve issues & Recovered root password for older generation servers (server cracking)  • Created and managed special FTP users on ftp server & Resolve file and directory permission issues & Enable IP forwarding  • Configured passwordless login between servers & Carry out production readiness reviews.  • General troubleshooting and root cause analysis issues & Other duties assigned  • Backups with tar, cron jobs, hot backup with percona xtrabackup  • Importing and exporting database with mysqldump  • Installation and configuration of content managers: Magnolia, WordPress, LINUX Systems Administrator Consolidated Data Storage - Alpharetta, GA June 2014 to October 2016 Education Master's Skills Production Support, Ticketing, LAN, linux, Oracle,MSSQL, Deployment, Incident/problem management, Scheduling, Monitorin, Troubleshooting, Backups,, Desktop Support