Linux Systems Engineer, Sr. Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer, Sr. IT Systems Engineer (Linux, Windows) Suffolk, VA Linux, Windows Systems engineer.  IT System Analyst. Forensic, Security, Network. Work Experience Linux Systems Engineer, Sr. Unisys VITA - Richmond, VA August 2018 to May 2019 Linux systems management for Commonwealth of Virginia, supporting multiple government agencies' IT infrastructure.  • Projects include but not limited to Red Hat Linux, Solaris, Oracle Linux servers support and configuration, migration (RHEL 6 to 7.6), upgrades, on live, test and beta environments. Vmware, Netapp and Sun Storage management.  • Docker and kubernetes applications and Oracle database servers support. Applications and Network security enhancement initiatives to include Satellite, FreeIPA, Foreman and NetIQ integration. Technical Implementation Engineer, Sr ECRS - Boone, NC December 2016 to July 2018 Travel role comprising of more than 80% travel. As part of Professional Services Group, travel to customer' sites - universities, hospitals, stores - for the complete PCI SSC technical Implementation of complex ECRS single or multi-site enterprise grade Catapult servers and TS - POS systems and peripheral devices.  • Manage own projects; setup new, or redesign existing network infrastructure, using OpenVPN for multi-site networks. Reconfigure routers and firewalls for PCI compliance. Harden security for Wi-Fi APs, V-LANs, WAN-LAN and VPN.  • Migration, queries and DB constructs, of new or existing SQL Anywhere, MS SQL, Mysql and Oracle databases.  • Projects involve integration of proprietary applications and custom hardware within the existing networks and IT infrastructure adhering to PCI SSC standards. Deployment of Credit Card payment devices.  • Software customization and deployment, class or individual training and go live. Linux servers security hardening and ECRS applications GUI customization. Onsite liaison and technical resource. Technical Implementation Engineer SPOK AmCom - Minnetonka, MN November 2014 to September 2016 Travel role comprising of more than 80% travel. As part of Professional Services Team, travel to customer' sites, mainly hospitals, for the complete Technical Implementation and deployment of latest releases of SPOK - AMCOM SmartSuite enterprise grade applications, Linux Red Hat and Oracle DB 10/11g deployment, migration and upgrades.  • Projects involve implementing proprietary software products in relation to CTI - Computer Telephony Integration for Messaging, Paging, Emergency Notification, Speech Recognition, Switchboard Operators and SmartWeb AmCom applications. Integration with Crystal Reports, McKesson, Epic and HL7 systems.  • CTI and Dialogic integration with Cisco, Avaya, Nortel, Siemens PBX servers in clinical settings.  • Customization of IVR, VRU voice recognition, paging and messaging devices (TAP, SNPP, SMTP, WCTP, SMS).  • Customization of physical or VMware, AWS Linux Red Hat servers interfacing with CTI' client PCs.  • GUI, API's customization for SmartSuite and SmartConsole at client workstations employing proprietary C++, java, Lua tools. Intranet, WebLogic, Websphere, Apache Web and GUI applications customization in clinical settings.  • Collaborated implementations with hospitals IT Directors, Telecom managers, while adhering to HIPAA regulations. Served as SME technical resource liaison on site or via VPN. Conducted 'train the trainer' classes. Technical Implementation Engineer, Sr GE Digital Energy - Melbourne, FL April 2014 to September 2014 Contract position. Lead and execute Technical Implementation of ESXi HP servers, VMware, Linux Red Hat, Windows Active Directory and Websphere application servers' administration. Implementation of Office 365.  • Active Directory migration for 5,000+ users from 80 globally distributed domains to one unified domain. Implemented replacement upgrades for 10+ HP and Dell ESXi servers and NetApp SAN storage cabinets. Optimized IBM Websphere applications for the GE Application Development Team.  • Collaborated with local and global GE Software Developers, GE IT Teams and GE Digital Energy Directors to ensure seamless VMs and Active Directory migration. IT Systems Engineer, Sr ForRent.com - Norfolk, VA July 2012 to February 2014 Technical lead engineer supporting VMware vSphere and Citrix Xen Server datacenters hosting hundreds of Linux VM. In addition, managed Apache, IIS, LDAP, Active Directory and SharePoint servers. Systems, firewall and network security; MS SQL, NetApp and MySQL clusters management.  • Provided IT systems support for the software development teams in ForRent.com live, development and beta. Administration of CMSs, AWS dev and additional hundred-plus IIS websites.  • Implemented Cloud based project - Disaster Recovery - forrent.com.  • Integrated Web and mobile development teams' projects with Sharepoint and TFS. Apps used: SVN, GIT, RavenDB, Jenkins, Puppet, Nagios.  • P2V and V2V servers migration from Citrix Cluster to VMware datacenters. IT Systems Administrator Parallax Webhosting - Franklin, VA May 2011 to March 2012 Full systems administration to include VMware, Linux, Active Directory, CMSs, Avaya PBX and LAMP application servers. Systems security, network and firewalls administration in a PCI SSC compliant environment.  • Planning, implementation and administration of Sitecore, cPanel, Drupal and Plesk Panel CMS webhosting over one hundred IIS and Apache served high-traffic websites.  • Ensured site security for Bank of America Publishing as well as network and data security using DDoS mitigation tools to include Arbor, Wireshark, Tripwire, and Snort IDS.  • Daily network vulnerability scans IDS, IPS (Symantec, MacAfee). Netgear, Fortinet firewalls and postfix mail servers' administration. Support for the web developers building ColdFusion, HTML and PHP websites. Provided company-wide technical support for all IT, VPN and 200 external users email accounts.  • Managed projects to migrate to MS SQL Server 2008. Implemented the addition of new ESXi servers into existing datacenter and wrote company-wide Network and Systems Security Policy documentation. IT Systems Administrator PenSoft Payroll - Newport News, VA February 2009 to February 2011 Full systems administration to include Hyper-V, Samsung PBX, NetApp SAN, Active Directory, Exchange and proprietary applications in a PCI SSC compliant environment. Systems security, network and Cisco firewall administration.  • Managed projects to implement company-wide custom payroll applications, hardware and software upgrades.  • Custom design and build clustered Exchange and Hyper-V servers and deployed new TFS server.  • Provided company-wide IT support for the programmers and the end users and administered custom database applications. Administration of clustered Exchange 2007, Microsoft SQL 2008, IIS, NetApp SAN FC storage. Migrated to Exchange 2007 & Windows Server 2008, which included multi-phase research, planning and lab testing. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT High school or equivalent in Mechanical Engineering Eminescu High school or equivalent Tallahassee, FL Skills System Administrator (10+ years), Vmware (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), SCCM (7 years), Linux (10+ years), Systems Integration (10+ years), Apache (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), PBX (10+ years), CTI (10+ years), Exchange Server (10+ years), TFS (10+ years), SVN (10+ years), CMS (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), SAN (10+ years), Cisco (10+ years), NetApp (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Hyper-V (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), Sharepoint (10+ years), Websphere (6 years), TAP, SNPP, SMTP, WCTP, SMS (10+ years), WebLogic (6 years), IVR VRU (6 years), DNS (10+ years), Embedded, C, AWS (5 years), Powershell (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses LPIC Present Linux Professional Institute LPIC SuSE CLA Present SuSE Certified Linux Administrator CLA Certification MCTS MCSE MCSA MCP Present Microsoft® Certified Systems Engineer and Microsoft® Certified Technology Specialist A+ Certified Present CompTIA® A+ Certified Professional PCI SSC QIR 3.0 PCI SSC - QIR 3.0 Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council Additional Information Ten-plus years of professional experience:  • Linux - Centos, Debian, Red Hat, SUSE - NetApp, VNX, SUN, OpenFiler SANs  • Active Directory, Network Security, Exchange, IIS  • VMware, Hyper-V, KVM, Citrix Xen, AWS, Azure  • PBX, CTI, VoIP, VRU, IVR - Avaya, Asterisk, Nortel, Samsung, Dialogic  • Relational databases: Microsoft SQL, MySQL, Oracle, SQL Anywhere  • Apache, LAMP stacks, CMS, Web hosting. Unix bind, sendmail and postfix email servers  • Perl, Python and .NET fundamentals. Practical scripting/editing experience using bash, perl, C++, Java, HTML, XML, Lua, Visual basic. Demonstrated ability to learn new technologies rapidly with no formal training. Adept of best ITIL, STIGS, IT operations practices.    Notable implementation projects include: Mayo Clinic, Mankato, MN Robert Wood Johnson - New Brunswick, NJ Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL | NYU Langone Medical Center, NY | Exeter Hospital, NH | Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN UC Health Center, Cincinnati, OH Floyd Medical Center, GA | OMNI Hotels, KY | Ellwood Thompsons VCU, VA