Watch Officer Watch Officer Watch Officer - GNOSC Colorado Springs, CO Work Experience Watch Officer GNOSC November 2018 to Present MDA Schriever AFB    • 24/7 Classified Local Area Networks (CLAN) and Unclassified Local Area Networks (ULAN) network, system, telephone systems, Unified Communications, Defense Red Switch network (DRSN) and cloud systems monitoring and surveillance status.  • Environmental monitoring, security access controls, incident management, MDA Cyber security support, and service maintenance activities including Change Management coordination during the assigned day/shift/times.  • Responsible for all aspects on IT incident management and escalation, ensuring incidents are effectively escalated, managed and resolved within full communication of status, plans, and actions provided to executive management and the Government customers.  • Provide guidance and lead troubleshooting in dynamic, time constrained scenarios to matrix staff, including network, systems and applications engineers, in a geographically distributed enterprise. As the Incident Manager, I coordinate with leadership across the Enterprise to meet service levels defined for the IT Services organization.  • Approve the start and stop of maintenance, initiate change requests, open work orders and Work Screen Team identifiers, incidents, changes and ticket requests through Remedy and local developed databases.  • C2 system checks are executed on 7 CONUS based sites ensuring real-time operational status.  • Utilize Remedy and SNMP monitoring tools (Microfocus) to provide real-time systems status and decipher system troubles.  • Utilize the ITIL framework and ITIL based processes which includes continual service improvement, change management and problem management. Systems Administrator, Essentris United States Air Force Academy August 2017 to November 2018 • Operating System migration for 843 systems to Windows 10.  • Migrated physical servers into virtual environment using Hyper V in Server 2016.  • Managing user level permissions and security groups.  • Installed, Configured, and troubleshoot Windows Server 2016 and 2012.  • Troubleshoot user accounts and patient records per request.  • Created User Accounts to facilitate user access to system.  • Implemented new mobile products into the Surgical unit to increase patient care. System Operator Evans Army Community Hospital/ Peterson AFB January 2015 to August 2017 • Maintained end users accounts with multiple different issues.  • Created End users accounts using VMS inside of CHCS.  • Created users accounts for AHLTA.  • Troubleshot patient and administrative data for users upon request.  • Received and Processed roughly 250 tickets without complaint.  • Created/unlocked/disabled Essentris accounts, as supplemental support for user issues.  • Performed initial user troubleshooting with issues in Essentris. SGT Communications Systems Maintainer January 2013 to September 2015 Operator    Scope  • Involved in communications projects that incorporated multiple divisions, entities, states and organizations.  • Helped users on a daily basis to resolve all issues in a timely manner as to allow them to resume their work.  • Managed and review personnel on a monthly basis to help them grow and improve throughout their career.  First Project - 2007-2013  • Maintained, Operated and Controlled an entire organizations communications and automations equipment approximately worth 11.3 million dollars.  • Controlled and Accounted for 6.5 million dollars in equipment with zero loss. Administrated 1,000 user accounts.  • Evaluated, instructed and educated 9 employees under my direct supervision.  Second Project - 2013-2015  • Maintained, Operated and Controlled an entire organizations communication and automation equipment approximately worth 7.5 million dollars.  • Controlled and Accounted for 1.5 million dollars in equipment with zero loss.  • Evaluated, instructed and educated 15 employees under my direct supervision. Skills Active directory, Cisco, Data center, Dns, Exchange, Network administration, Remedy, Server administration, Vms, Blackberry, Dhcp, Network monitoring, Sharepoint, Web design, Microsoft sharepoint, Linux, Symantec, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows server 2012 Additional Information • 1 Year of Server Administration with Windows Server 2012 and 2016.  • 5 Years of Management, Supervision and personnel review.  • 8 years of operating, maintaining, repairing and troubleshooting Computers, Switches and Routers, Radios and Satellite Systems.  • 8 years of managing a help desk with approximately a 2000 member customer base.    Technical Skills    • Network Monitoring - Network Node Manager, Data Center Expert, Microsoft System Center 2012.  • Server Applications - V-Sphere, Hyper V, Active Directory, Exchange 2003/2007 System manager, Hyper V, Symantec Backup, Norton Backup, Blackberry Enterprise Server 5.0.  • Software Applications - VMS, CHCS, AHLTA, Remedy (Action Request System), Microsoft SharePoint, Microsoft office 2003-2010, , Adobe CS4 and CS6, Presentation Software.  • Operating Systems - Windows Server 2012 and Windows Server 2016, Windows 7 all versions, Windows 8, Windows Server 2003&2008, Linux.  • Network Administration - Cisco Call Manager, Cisco Network Monitor, DNS/DHCP administration, network sharing administration, print server administration.  • Web Design - Domain and host management, Shopify, site structure development.