Network Data Engineer Network Data Engineer Network Data Engineer - Texas Medical Centre s CCNA, CCNP and PCNSE Certified Network Engineer with 5 plus years of extensive experience in Implementing, Configuration, Migrating, Optimization, Troubleshooting, Upgrading, Testing and Documenting of Cisco Router, Switches, ASA and Palo Alto Firewall and Cambium & Meraki Wireless, all in challenging and demanding Telecommunications and Enterprise Network environments.    1. Extensive experiences in planning, installing, migrating, configuring, and troubleshooting of Cisco Routers (ASR 900,1000, 9000 series ISR 4000& 1000 seires, 7600, 7200. 3620), and Cisco L2/L3 Switches (2900, 3500, 3700,3850, 4000, 6500 series).  2. Experiences and Knowledge of large scale Internet Service Provider and hands-on experience in IOS, IOS-XE, IOS XR  3. Proficient in Configuring Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANS) using Cisco routers and multi-layer Switches and supporting STP, RSTP, PVST, RPVST along with trouble shooting of inter-VLAN routing and VLAN Trucking using 802.1Q.  4. Experiences in configuration, migrating, manual and regression testing, monitoring and troubleshooting of L3 routing protocols including RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, IS-IS and BGP.  5. Experience in implementation, troubleshooting and resolving issues related to of DMVPN, IPSEC VPN, MPLS, QoS and Multicast.  6. Experience in implementation of dynamic multipoint virtual private network (DMVPN) and support and resolutions to network issues, troubleshoot and resolve issues related to DMVPM.  7. Implemented MPLS/VPN services for various customers. Worked on troubleshooting customer issues related to MPLS/VPN related issues involving PE configuration issues, PE-CE link issues such as routing protocol configuration, Layer1 / Layer2 issues, BGP address-family related issues, MP-BGP etc.  8. Extensively worked with Implemented and configured of Network Security devices such as Cisco ASA 5505 to 5585. Palo Alto and Cisco FTD Firewall and IP Manager (Infoblox) and Security Device Manager (SDM) and centralized management system to manage large scale firewall deployments.  9. Extensive work experiences in planning, installing, migrating, , Upgrading configuring, and troubleshooting of Cisco Routers (ASR 920 9000s, 7600, 7200), Cisco L2/L3 Switches (2800, 3500, 3600, 3700,3850, 4500, 6500 series.  10. Monitored bandwidth and network activity by analyzing information provided by Solarwinds Orion, Zabbix, Wireshark.  11. Extensively worked with Implemented and configured of Network Security devices such as Cisco ASA 5505 to 5585. Palo Alto and Cisco FTD Firewall and IP Manager (Infoblox) and Security Device Manager (SDM) and centralized management system to manage large scale firewall deployments.  12. Experiences in building MOPs (Method of Procedures) for deploying and implementing Core, Upgrading, Migration and Troubleshooting the complex network in Enterprise and ISP.  13. Handled escalations and resolved technical issues according to SLA.  14. Planned and coordinate system utilization and capacity, involving configuration and testing with vendor Work Experience Network Data Engineer Texas Medical Centre s - Houston, TX March 2019 to Present 1. Building and Maintaining large Ethernet network design including Routing, Switching, configuration, performance and fault tolerance of servers, switches, storage hardware and software architectures. Working on Installation, Upgrade, Performance Monitoring and Improvisation of Enterprise Networks and Systems.  2. Responsible for Installing of Servers, Patches in various system environments.  3. Implementing, Monitoring, Troubleshooting and convergence in Frame-mode MPLS inside the core.  4. Perform Troubleshooting and monitoring network routing protocols such RIP, OSPF, EIGRP and BGP. Implement TCP/IP and related services like DHCP/DNS/WINS. Maintain BGP/OSPF Network Protocol issues, Network route issues, VLAN issues, DHCP issues and Network performance issues.  5. Designing and implementing of LAN (VLANs), VTP, Spanning Tree (STP), Trunking (dot1q and ISL) and Ether Channel.  6. Maintaining Network load balancing towards access layer from core layer using network Load balancers. Manage and Be Responsible for customer's site.  7. Responsible for installing, configuring and supporting an organization's local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), and internet system or segment of a network system.  8. Creating enterprise solutions for priority network break fix incidents. Which can be reported by Monitoring Tools (MOM), Site Managers and Business.  9. Creating technical documentation related to enterprise network. Use network computer-aided design (CAD) and Microsoft Visio software packages to optimize network designs.  10. Communicating with system users to ensure accounts are set up properly or to diagnose and solve operational problems.  11. Coordinating installation of new Enterprise Network Data Center equipment.  12. Responsible for implementing solutions for enterprise network outages. Develop and write standard operating procedures for installation, use, or troubleshooting of communications hardware.  13. Developing network-related documentation & conceptual, logical, or physical network designs.  14. Developing System and Network Security measures, such as firewalls, network security audits, or automated security probes.  15. Developing or Maintain Project Reporting Systems. Participate in network technology upgrade or expansion projects, including installation of hardware and software and integration testing. Network Engineer NOC II January 2017 to December 2018 * Worked as a Network Operation Engineer in a NOC environment, monitoring troubleshooting BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, VLANs, STP, ETHERCHANNEL, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP dealing with layer1 and layer 2 problems and upgrading firmware IOS.  * Monitoring, Troubleshooting and Configure DMVPN, MPLS, MPLS-TE and VPLS  * Installing, configuring, maintaining, proactively monitoring, and repairing all network equipment consisting of, but not limited to Cisco routers and switches.  * Developed documentation on standards(MOP) and troubleshooting processes to improve overall efficiency and productivity of network operations personnel.  * Managing Cambium Fixed point to point Backhauls, Microwave , Point to multipoint APs, (ePMP), Wireless bridges, Wireless mesh, and WiMax networks allow secure and reliable access to high-speed data, voice and video services.  * Expertise in utilizing Spectrum Analyzer, Site Master, Power Meter, Power Monitor, Signal Chart Recorder, Oscilloscope, Protocol Analyzer, RF Radiation Analyzer (RADMAN) & Computer Management/Applications.  * Collaboration with equipment venders for system improvement and Strategic joint project member as NOC liaison  * Manage and oversee system administration; Domain Name System (DNS) and Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) systems; assist with security and third party software installation; manage system administration tools and processes  * Provisioning and IP assignment, core network configuration, DNS setup, monitoring and graphing for colocation, leased lines, customer backup and other customer network services.  * Extensively worked with Implemented and configured of Network Security devices such as Cisco ASA 5505 to 5585. Palo Alto and Cisco FTD Firewall and IP Manager (Infoblox) and Security Device Manager (SDM) and centralized management system to manage large scale firewall deployments.  * Design and configuring of OSPF, BGP ON Juniper Routers (MX960, MX480) and SRX Firewalls (SRX240, SRX550)  * Designed, Implemented and Supported a full outdoor wireless network consisting of multiple controllers, 1000 AP's.  * Extensive work experiences in planning, installing, migrating, , Upgrading configuring, and troubleshooting of Cisco Routers (ASR 920 9000s, 7600, 7200), Cisco L2/L3 Switches (2800, 3500, 3600, 3700,3850, 4000, 6500 series.), Nexus 5000, 7000, Juniper MX960, MX480  * Firmware upgrades on both wired and wireless network equipment.  * Configured the security policy and failover for Cisco ASA 5520 Network System Administrator Full-Time - BBAHC Hospital - Alaska January 2015 to December 2016 * Responsible for LAN/WAN network design, migration, and technical refresh with detailed implementation and test plan.  * Designed and implemented an IP addressing scheme with subnets for different departments.  * Designed and deployed networks using dynamic routing protocol (EIGRP, OSPF and BGP).  * Responsible for remote sites connectivity via VPN/Site to Site/IPsec, GRE, DMVPN  * Implementation and provisioning of new VPN customers in Cisco IP/MPLS-VPN Network using different routing protocols (e.g. MP-BGP, OSPF, Static, and others which are required).  * Configured HSRP and VLAN trucking 802.1Q, VLAN Routing on Catalyst 6500 switches. Optimized performance of the WAN network consisting of Cisco 3550/4500/6500 switches by configuring VLANs.  * Configured BPDU Guard, port-fast, uplink fast and other spanning tree features.  * Configuration and troubleshooting routing protocols including EIGRP, OSPF, and BGP and WAN technologies including E3, E1, T1, 56K, ISDN, HDLC, Frame Relay and MPLS Switching.    * Key contributions include troubleshooting of complex LAN/WAN infrastructure that include Routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF and BGP.  * Time to time upgrade network connectivity between branch office and regional office with multiple link paths and routers running HSRP, EIGRP in unequal cost load balancing to build resilient network.  * Remote installation and troubleshooting of devices like, Switches and Routers.  * Implemented high security model between all VLANs by ACL filtering and private VLANs.  * Designed, planned and implemented Active Directory Services, Active Directory Group Policy Objects (GPO), Group Policy Management Console (GPMC), DHCP and DNS  * Migration of Legacy Active Directory to 2012 Active Directory ( Including DMZ)  * Provide domain administration/lead related architectural support including designing, building and maintaining our Global AD. NETWORK/ SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR TIMESNETS PVT LTD - Kochi, Kerala January 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Administration Cisco 2600, 3500, 3600 and 3700 series switches.  • VLAN port management and providing access to Internet to users as per the policy.  • Providing L3 support to clients  • Administration Nortel Switches  • Administration of Cisco 3800 series Routers.  • Monitoring Network infrastructure using SNMP tool of solar winds.  • Preparing technical documentation (Equipment Selection, design, configurations and production  check- outs) using Microsoft VISIO/Microsoft Office.  • Network sniffing using Wireshark.  • Network devices configuration Backup and IOS updgrade    • Key contributions include troubleshooting of complex LAN/WAN infrastructure that include    Routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF & BGP.    • Configured ACL to allow only authorized users to access the servers.    • Participated in on call support in troubleshooting the configuration and installation issues.    • Installation, Maintenance, Troubleshooting Local and Wide Areas Network (ISDN, Frame relay, NAT, DHCP, TCP/IP.    • Provided Technical support in terms of upgrading, improving and expanding the network at Responsible for Manage, Configure Group Policy in order to secure Domain environment  • Responsible for Integrate SSO and two factor authentication with Active Directory  • Administration of access management of user request  • Responsible that all are servers have the latest security patches.  • Responsible for Security team to get all of our DMZ servers to open up all the proper ports for our Core infrastructure Applications to work properly.  • Worked with the configuration manager consult to get all are servers the new SCCM client installed properly and functionally on all are servers. Education Associate BA USC 2013 to Present