Learning Systems Manager Learning <span class="hl">Systems</span> Manager Learning Systems Manager - Zeiders Enterprises Silverdale, WA Work Experience Learning Systems Manager Zeiders Enterprises 2014 to Present • Technology and Learning Systems team manager designing and directing innovative solutions that streamline processes, add value across functional lines and drive business growth. Providing informed counsel and thought leadership to executives, stakeholders, departments, teams and peers for company growth and development of winning business proposals (pricing, SLAs, LOE, staffing, etc.).  • Optimization of accurate and meaningful learning analytics and reports that provide a comprehensive view with trend analysis, key performance indicators and achievement of organizational goals.  • Review training effectiveness, process budget and evaluate ROI, identifying deficiencies and implementing changes to ensure financial viability, increased system stability and staff productivity.  • Revitalized existing SharePoint to streamline cross-departmental functionalities and strengthen overall proficiency of daily operations of across multiple departments.  • Strategically coordinated and established companywide ticketing system from design (configuration, requirements, integration, customization), maintenance (SOP, governance, admin guides, FAQs, user resources, monthly ticket audits) and execution (standardization, reporting and tracking, analysis, escalation process) in support of multiple global contracts. Over ten years of experience in customer services, computer operations and technical support to thousands of global users, earning a reputation for productivity, complex problem resolution and professionalism. Excellent skill and troubleshooting ability with LMS/LCMS requirements and applications (Flash, SCORM1.2, AICC, xAPI, etc.) to identify enhancement initiatives, improve customer service and resolve learner tickets.  • Lead department level professional development project to promote ongoing learning environment while developing optimized solutions towards improved performance, processes and overall engagement. Monitored performance, providing coaching on the job and mentoring through social learning, that ensured learning translated to enhanced ability and skills for staff as well as improved products for the organization. Learning Management Systems (LMS/LCMS) Administrator Zeiders Enterprises 2012 to 2014 • Successfully implemented a moodle LMS for contract work as well as a private LMS for companywide compliance and training. Set and manage expectations in regard to project scope and timeline, vendor and department responsibilities, stakeholder roles and responsibilities, project governance (communication, change control, escalation), risk management and organizational readiness.  • Identify and implement process improvements that drive productivity, employee satisfaction and improve revenue drivers.  • Completely redesigned a large, high profile required blended learning experience for all new managers that allows for ongoing, deep on the job learning.  • Event management project lead responsible for the scheduling, planning, coordinating and communicating with customers to drive the quality execution of internal and external events. Organizing all aspects of the process and documentation for kickoff, launch, execution and follow up of webinar production to ensure clear, consistent and concise communication with customer. Annual evaluations resulting in cost savings across multiple contracts due to increased speed of staff, better user experience and expansion of services. Learning Specialist / Instructional Designer Zeiders Enterprises 2010 to 2012 • Advanced ability in design, production and facilitation of instructor-led, virtual and on-demand trainings using the ADDIE model for development.  • Worked with SMEs, functional leaders and L&D team to create training plans, develop training modules and coordinate and administer training for organization. Easily managing multiple stakeholders to establish clear objectives outlining behavioral and/or performance expectations, guide the product training roadmap, populate the development calendar, collect feedback from reviews and make necessary curriculum updates or improvements. Education B.S. in Elementary Education Auburn University - Auburn, AL M.S. in Elementary Education Auburn University - Auburn, AL Project Management Alison University Google Analytics Academy Skills CSS, DREAMWEAVER, SHAREPOINT, FLASH, CITRIX, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, XML, HTML5, JIRA, CRM, SQL, LMS, COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, QUANTITATIVE, E-LEARNING, ULTIPRO, ROI, TECHNICAL EDITING, Instructional Design