Technology Specialist (Remote) Technology Specialist (Remote) Technology Specialist (Remote) - Florida State University Omaha, NE Work Experience Technology Specialist (Remote) Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL 2018 to Present Deliver excellence in IT leadership by overseeing all aspects of hands-on technical operations and systems in support of institutional objectives. Successfully installed servers, networking equipment, hardware, and cabling for TraCS and ELVIS projects housed within PCPD. Play a critical role for project teams to ensure maximum performance and uptime of business systems for 65,000 users across Florida. Maintain compliance and consistency of network maps with Florida Department of Law Enforcement regulations and standards. Monitors servers, network, and system logs on a daily basis.  Key Achievements:  * Saved all hardware and data for both projects during Hurricane Michael.  * Improved efficiency and reduced redundancy by reorganizing, rewiring, and stacking server racks. Adjunct Instructor Gulf Coast State College - Panama City, FL 2017 to 2019 Prepare and deliver instruction in A+ Hardware and A+ Software courses while leading project activities and evaluating student progress. Develop curriculum and assist students with performance deficiencies with a solid focus on attaining certification. Demonstrate persuasive communication and analytical skills and the ability to develop effective relationships with students and faculty.  Key Achievements:  * Increased the number of students receiving CompTIA A+ certification through strategic efforts.  * Designed labs to teach core skills that apply directly to a career in information technology. Systems Administrator & LASO Panama City Police Department - Panama City, FL 2016 to 2019 Deliver strategic technical leadership and management of the IT unit supporting a Windows environment that requires 24/7 access for law enforcement activities. Manage Windows 7, Windows 10, Servers 2008 r2, Servers 2016, and an Ubuntu server while maintaining an SLA of 99.5 % uptime. Provide tier two helpdesk support by troubleshooting and repairing servers, networking equipment, laptops, desktops, printers, and phones and oversee disaster recovery planning and implementation. Plan and manage budget of $300K, partner with vendors to maintain agreements, licensing, and grant requirements, and ensure compliance with Florida Crime Information Center (FCIC), and the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) requirements as the agency's LASO (Local Agency Security Officer).  Key Achievements:  * Led activities to successfully pass FDLE IT compliance audit with no recommendations.  * Successfully planned budget and IT initiatives for a 3, 5, and 10 year period.  * Successfully redesigned the PD domain and networking infrastructure to improve services, security, and reduce downtime.  * Recognized as the second agency to restore services after being affected by Hurricane Michael with no lost data or server equipment. IT Manager Dan's Pawn, Inc - Panama City, FL 2013 to 2016 Successfully and independently served as IT manager responsible for maintenance of networks and security systems for three sites. Oversaw installation and maintenance of computer and CCTV systems, Dell SonicWALL networks, Power Connect devices, re-imaging, troubleshooting, and monitoring to ensure optimum performance of operations. Served as subject-matter expert and developed best practice guidelines and policies. Managed inventory of assets, hardware, and software for all sites and delivered training to new hires.  Key Achievements:  * Reduced cost of bringing in and refurbishing computers by 70%.  * Redesigned the computer systems and networking infrastructure to improve services, security, and reduce downtime.  * Ran 20k feet of CAT6 for the network and CCTV systems. Education Master of Science (MS) - Information Technology in Management Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT 2020 Bachelor of Applied Science in (BAS) - Technology Management Gulf Coast State College - Panama City, FL 2013 Associate of Science in (AS) - Network Services Gulf Coast State College - Panama City, FL 2011 Skills Networking, Printers, Mac, Mac os, Microsoft office, Cctv, Active Directory, Technical Support, Windows, Security, Windows 7 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ September 2022 CompTIA Security+ September 2022 Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/3yxeamuzqx644ahs Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pglnbvylpsfsxquv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.