Compliance Administrator Compliance <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Legal Professional Greeley, CO Work Experience Compliance Administrator CNO Financial Group - Carmel, IN July 2019 to Present Act as a resource to operational areas on compliance issues.   Monitor in-force products for compliance and provide guidance related to these products.   Supports state regulatory requirements, such as company reporting.   Monitor and review state and federal legislative developments; make necessary recommendations.   Recommend standards, processes and procedures that enable company to comply with regulatory requirements.   Apply knowledge of area of business supported to make recommendations on standards andgroup processes. Legal Extern U.S. Army Staff Judge Advocate - Fort Knox, KY September 2018 to September 2018 Assisting assigned attorneys and providing a range of legal support and administration with requisite legal paperwork and investigations in the practice of military criminal law and proceedings, through the following:   •performing legal and factual research   •performing records research  •organizing and analyzing provided information   •cross-checking and validating provided information   •drafting legal memoranda  •drafting examination and cross-examination questions for witnesses   •helping prepare legal arguments, applications, declarations and motions Paralegal Liberty Mutual Insurance Group - Carmel, IN August 2015 to August 2018 Assisting assigned attorneys and providing a range of legal support and administration with requisite legal paperwork and investigations in the practice of insurance defense law, tort liability, personal injury, workers' compensation, and construction defect proceedings, through the following:   •performing legal and factual research   •performing records research  •organizing and analyzing provided information   •cross-checking and validating provided information   •drafting legal documents (including briefs, pleadings, appeals, agreements, contracts and legal memoranda)   •helping prepare legal arguments, applications, declarations, discovery responses, and motions   •preparing correspondence to clients and others as required   •locating and interviewing witnesses   •checking and editing legal forms and documents for accuracy   •organizing and maintaining databases and case files   •coordinating office activities (such as subpoena delivery)  Paralegal Intern Marion County Public Defender Agency - Indianapolis, IN September 2014 to November 2014 Assisting assigned attorneys and providing a range of legal support and administration with requisite legal paperwork and investigations in the practice of juvenile criminal law and proceedings, through the following:   •performing legal and factual research   •performing records research  •organizing and analyzing provided information   •cross-checking and validating provided information   •drafting legal documents (including briefs, pleadings, appeals, agreements, contracts and legal memoranda)   •helping prepare legal arguments, applications, declarations and motions   •preparing correspondence to clients and others as required   •locating and interviewing witnesses   •checking and editing legal forms and documents for accuracy   •organizing and maintaining databases and case files   •coordinating office activities (such as subpoena delivery)   •answering phone calls, and directing client inquiries to appropriate individuals Targeting Systems Operator U.S. Army - Lexington, KY February 2000 to February 2006 Trained/supervised between 1 and 35 subordinates (on multiple occasions) in job duties and soldierly discipline  Honor Graduate of Basic Combat Training – Ft. Sill, OK (2000)  Dist. Honor Graduate of Adv. Ind. Training – Ft. Sill, OK (2002)  Graduate of Air Assault Training course – Ft. Campbell, KY (2003)  Combat Lifesaver course (training in hemorrhage control, tourniquets, spinal and head injuries, resuscitation, first aid, shock, fractures, nerve agent injuries, and transportation of casualties) – Ft. Campbell, KY (2003)  Recipient of: Two (2) Sergeant Major’s Awards (2000, 2002); Army Achievement Medal (2003); Two (2) KY State Commendation Ribbons (2004, 2005)  Maintained weapons, personal equipment, and radio and wire communications equipment; operated military-grade HMMWVs (hummers), 2.5-ton vehicles, and TOC vehicles; performed coordinate data entry while operating computer targeting systems (50 wpm typing); performed clerical, file maintenance, and office duties; performed facilities and inventory management; other tasks and duties, as assigned by superiors Education JD in Law Indiana University-Purdue University-Indianapolis - Indianapolis, IN August 2015 to Present Certificate in Paralegal Studies Indiana University-Purdue University-Indianapolis - Indianapolis, IN August 2012 to May 2014 B.S. in Psychology Indiana University-Purdue University-Indianapolis - Indianapolis, IN August 2012 to May 2014 Skills Westlaw, Receptionist, Outlook, Filing, Microsoft Word, MS Excel, MS Powerpoint Military Service Branch: United States National Guard Rank: E-4 Certifications/Licenses Paralegal Certificate Assessments Email Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gmqck0vkotodnivn Intermediate Spreadsheet Proficiency with Microsoft Excel — Familiar January 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Excel techniques including effectively writing and applying conditional formulas. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zv-6ee2mfo-xsn4y Intermediate Word Processing Proficiency with Microsoft Word — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/a27hjuaxjcerm9sz English Communication Skills: Typing — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/o1ufuk0jag0l2qhr Verbal Communication — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jnzg5ug9zahpflv Basic Spreadsheet Proficiency with Microsoft Excel — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of basic Microsoft Excel techniques, including sorting, formatting, and filtering of columns or rows. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zpbii8evyfaiaa-m Attention to Detail Skills — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to use diligence when drafting and editing documents. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jgu350vfqyy6r0el Written Communication — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to convey written information using proper grammar rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/auxdjxntufo5azyz Basic Word Processing Proficiency with Microsoft Word — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of basic Microsoft Word techniques for word processing, including the use of tools to format or edit text. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8hkz36tlyncldzvk Basic Computer Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s8lovyn-0vvvmtkb Legal Skills — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively assist practicing attorneys in the preparation for litigation proceedings. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/3gohxcsi0nvrstlu Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.