Systems Security Administrator, Host Based Security (HBSS) <span class="hl">Systems</span> Security <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Host Based Security (HBSS) Cyber Security Engineer Colorado Springs, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Security Administrator, Host Based Security (HBSS) GSTek, Inc. - Colorado Springs, CO November 2018 to Present -         Duties include daily and weekly reporting of Command Cyber Readiness Inspection (CCRI) security posture – Operation Order (OPORD 16-0080), operations & maintenance of Host-Based Security suite of applications for approximately 15,000 workstations across 2 enterprise enclaves, troubleshooting outages in context of system/network enterprise, and documenting various host-based security standard operating procedures (SOPs), operational events and outages, and compliance requirements.  -         Created scripting environment to provide for effective remote enterprise operations and maintenance of security applications bringing compliance into passing grades (Full Compliant) for cyber inspections.  -         Perform Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) in accordance with Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) guidelines to deliver a more secure security baseline across enterprise host-based security applications. Systems Security Analyst, Host Based Security (HBSS) General Dynamics Information Technology, Inc - Naples, IT September 2017 to September 2018 Naples, Italy (Sept 2017 - Present)  - Primary Host Based Security (HBSS) analyst for European theatre of operations supporting over 300 Windows,  Linux, & UNIX servers, and over 20,000 Windows workstations across multiple enclaves.  - Established product deployment methodologies implementing more complete coverage of enterprise systems.  - Developed various reporting tools via Windows PowerShell providing additional visibility to executives & subordinate units where commercially purchased products lacked capabilities.  - Passed Command Cyber Readiness Inspection (CCRI) with full-compliant score in endpoint security warfare area.  Rev. 20180922  Systems & Networks Engineer (Tier IV) Sr. Systems Engineer CSRA, Inc - San Diego, CA October 2016 to September 2017 San Diego, CA, (Oct 2016 - Sept 2017)  - Prepared and presented various high-level technical documents, derived from Certification & Accreditation (C&A)  process, to allow Programs of Record (POR) connection to US Navy ONE-Net enterprise for network transport.  - Designed Host Based Security program for policy analysis and engineering from the ground-up, providing simple and intuitive direction to systems integration team members.  - Provided high-level overviews of technical processes to non-technical personnel for quick understanding and logical forward execution. Systems Engineer Host Based Security Tier III Vectrus Systems 2016 to September 2016 in support of US Army South-West Asian Cyber Center (SWACC), Camp Arifjan, Kuwait (2016 - Sept 2016)  - Member of Security Operations (SECOPS) team to ensure the maintenance & operations of Host Based  Security suites across 3 enclaves, to include over 300 servers, and more than 15,000 workstations at the primary  TNOSC for US Middle-East operations.  - Extended Host Based Security portion of operational network to include Linux systems in an enterprise effort to reduce and eliminate "rogue" systems.  - Delivered multiple tools to be used across the enterprise via Windows Batch & PowerShell automation script for several functions including: rogue detection and remediation, inactive systems diagnosis, and incident response to illegal USB devices. Cyber Security Host Based Security (HBSS) Analyst CACI NSS - Norfolk, VA 2015 to 2016 Responsible for managing & troubleshooting McAfee HBSS Agents and point-product compliance to include  Host-Intrusion Prevention (HIPS), VirusScan Enterprise (VSE), Rogue System Detection (RSD), and Data Loss  Prevention (DLP).  - Developed tools on the fly to support device compliance utilizing Windows Batch and PowerShell automation  scripting. Information Systems Technician (IT2) System Administrator US Navy - USS Ramage - Norfolk, VA 2010 to 2014 Primary system and network administrator for shipboard (ISNS COMPOSE) systems to include 2 McAfee HBSS  servers, 6 Windows 2003 servers, 1 Windows SharePoint server, 2 RedHat Linux servers, 3 Cisco routers, and 6  Alcatel switches supporting over 250 Windows workstations across 3 enclaves with more than 300 users. Education BS in Web Technology & Development University of Maryland-University College - Adelphi, MD April 2018 to June 2020 Skills Cyber Security (8 years), Javascript, Linux, GIT, Bash, Python Certifications/Licenses Comptia CASP CE Additional Information Notable Skills  ?     Host-Based Security System (HBSS)  ?     McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO)  ?     McAfee COTS & GOTS Programs (AV, Host IPS/IDS, DLP, ACCM, etc.)  ?     PowerShell & Batch scripting  ?     Windows Server 2012/2016  ?     Windows 10  ?     Red Hat Enterprise Linux  ?     HTML5/JavaScript