Network Systems Administrator Network <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Systems Administrator - CHIYODA USA CORPORATION Work Experience Network Systems Administrator CHIYODA USA CORPORATION - Greencastle, IN August 2018 to Present Contractor)  • Migration of Server 2003 domain controller (including domain and forest functional levels) to Server 2012R2.  • Implement Hosted Exchange services for Office 365 using vendor AppRiver.  • Provision new file share server and migrate permissions and directories from decommissioned domain controller.  • Implement Meraki Systems Manager to supervise IOS devices and manage Windows devices.  • Create group policies and security groups to automatically-deploy shares, printers, permissions, and software.  • Notify users of expiring email and Windows passwords through AD Self-Service Plus notifier.  • Data gathering of physical inventory, updating company documentation and verification of IP address list.  • Provision Cisco Meraki wireless access points and switches and replace obsolete hardware.  • Install and configure Spiceworks for helpdesk ticketing, vendor and device monitoring, and license management.  • Patch Management utilizing Automox.  • Centralize management campus copiers email address lists by retrieving automatically from LDAP.  • Hardware Imaging using Windows Deployment Services.  • IPv4 address scheme from scratch to remove external-facing addresses from LAN and increase to over 2000.  Technical Environment:  • Automox; Cisco Meraki; ESXi 6.7; LDAP; Server 2016; SonicWall; Spiceworks; Trend Micro; Windows 10 Managed IT Services Engineer (Freelance) WALDON IT SOLUTIONS - Martinsville, IN June 2014 to Present • Managed Services Engineer for 10 business clients and 200+ users throughout Indiana.  • Utilize Solarwinds RMM for centralized asset management, remote management, and software control.  • Lead project to provision QNAP NAS, migrate user files, decommission Buffalo NAS, and map drives for users.  • Migrate Server 2003 domain environment to Server 2012R2.  • Provide troubleshooting for email Exchange issues, ensuring business continuity.  • Implement security controls compliant with NIST 800-53 standards.  • Create test environment to accurately-ensure compliance with NIST standards using GPResult.  Technical Environment:  • Exchange; Hyper-V; QNAP NAS; Server 2012R2; SolarWinds MSP; SonicWALL; Windows 10 Remote Systems Administrator\Operations Engineer DELIVRA - Indianapolis, IN September 2014 to June 2018 • Remote and onsite administration for all technical assets including servers, laptops, tablets, and cloud-based applications.  • Assigned as the technical lead in the provisioning, installation/configuration, operation, and maintenance of systems hardware, software, and all related infrastructure.  • Strategized technical planning, implementation, performance tuning, and recovery procedures for hardware, servers, peripherals, programs, and software systems.  • Configured operating systems and system applications; investigated and performed feasibility analyses of system requirements and developed system specifications.  • Identified methods, solutions, and provided project support maintaining optimum services to 500+ users.  • Troubleshot and resolved hardware or software issues with servers, firewalls, and connectivity or network problems.  • Completed a daily review of system log files to maximize network security.  • Implementation of encryption to laptops and tablets, enhancing security on mobile platforms.  • Deployment of Cisco Meraki to enforce PIN usage and allow remote wipe of BYOD since users carried company email on personal phones. The application also provided remote support for laptops and tablets.  • Implemented Spiceworks to increase operational efficiency of the department by providing a real-time inventory of hardware, software licensing, and monthly reports for new and decommissioned assets.  • Assessed security for the existing company WiFi platform, took immediate steps to lock down the guest network.  • Implemented 802.1x policies, providing RADIUS authentication to WiFi and deploying Group Policies while authenticating to the company network through a Network Policy Server.  • Actively-complied a software whitelist in Symantec Endpoint Protection to reduce the number of malware incidents.  • Performed quarterly penetration testing utilizing Nessus and regular auditing utilizing Rapid7.  • Imaged hardware using Windows Deployment Services.  Technical Environment:  • 8x8 VoIP phones; Active Directory; Aruba IAP; Automation Scripting; BitLocker; CentOS; DHCP; DNS; ESXi; FileZilla; Google G Suite; Group Policy; Meraki Systems Manager; Nessus; Office 365; Rapid7; RRAS; Server 2008R2; SonicWALL; Spiceworks; WDS; Windows 8.1; WSUS Active Directory Administrator for Navient STARPOINT SOLUTIONS - New York, NY November 2013 to June 2014 Contract)  Technical Environment:  • Active Directory Migration Tool; AD Domains and Trusts; DNS; Group Policy; Microsoft Security Compliance Manager; Server 2012 Systems Support Specialist INDIANA BLOOD CENTER - Indianapolis, IN June 2013 to November 2013 Technical Environment:  • Exchange; InstallRite; Java Runtime; Meraki Systems Manager; PDQDeploy; Windows 7 IT Support Specialist BRILJENT - Indianapolis, IN March 2013 to June 2013 Contract)  Technical Environment:  • Active Directory; Server 2008R2; Trend Micro; VMWare Workstation Windows Server Administrator for HP SMART IT STAFFING - Indianapolis, IN February 2012 to February 2013 Contract)  Technical Environment:  • Active Directory; AD-Self-Service Plus; DHCP; DNS; ePolicy Orchestrator; Exchange; SCOM; VMware Workstation Education A+ Certification in Computer Technology Ivy Tech Community College - Terre Haute, IN October 2002 to December 2002 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/chrispattersonmcp Certifications/Licenses Microsoft MCP Present Microsoft Certified Professional Security + Present CompTIA Network + Present CompTIA A + Present CompTIA