NOC Engineer 2 NOC Engineer 2 NOC Engineer 2 - Comcast Business Denver, CO SKILLS  Windows OS XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10, Microsoft Office, Windows Server 2008 2012 2016, Windows Deployment Server, WinPE, Networking, IP Monitor, Aruba Networks, Wireless LAN, 802.1x Authentication, FortiGate, Fortiswitch. VPN, Cisco Jabber, VoIP, Desktop/Laptop Configuration and Troubleshooting, Upgrades, Imaging and Backups, Patch Management, Change Control, Help Desk, SSL Certificates and Domains, Apple IOS/OSX, McAfee A/V, McAfee EPO, SharePoint, Active Directory, VMware ESXi, VSphere, VM workstation, VMware Fusion, P2V, Hyper-V, SharePoint, Disaster Recovery, Vendor Management, Inventory, Contracts and Licensing, Remote Assistance, SolarWinds, SSH, Batch Scripting, DCtrack, Structured Cabling, Power Requirements, HVAC Requirements, GoToAssist, Skype for Business, Adobe Connect, WebEx, Brivo Security, Dell Hardware, Software Configuration and Installation, Fortinet, SonicWall, Cisco, Modems, Aerohive, MetroE, Routers, Firewalls, Switches, Cisco Meraki, What’s Up Gold (WUG), CradlePoint ECM, VSAT, Mojo, BroadSoft, DynamicDNS Work Experience NOC Engineer 2 Comcast Business - Centennial, CO August 2017 to Present - Directly support of NOC Techs and installs for customers.  - Oversee and manage tier 3 support for Enterprise Noc including multiple vendors and hardware types across multiple client SLA's and requirements.  - Resolve and support escalations of the highest priority that require extensive troubleshooting or addressing reoccurring needing an ultimate solution in a timely manner.  - Ramp up and support team members to educate and provide efficient solutions improving the overall flow of resolution.  - Collaborate with other departments both internally and externally to design feasible solutions including audits and metrics per client to improve support.  - Actively support systems, networks, firewalls, VPNs, switches, routers, and customer support per customer SLAs. Deployment Engineer 2 Comcast XOC - Centennial, CO January 2017 to August 2017 Escalate incident response for emergency issues to identify the fault(s) and work to configure/standup/top priority issues.  Facilitate the process to understand Clients and PMO needs via weekly meetings to establish new growth or restructure based on needs.  Document and maintain structured cabling, change control, and RMAs  Design and configure infrastructure and hardware to efficiently accommodate client needs internal resources to scale appropriate solutions. Jr. Systems Administrator Talisys - Golden, CO January 2014 to August 2017 - Managed implementation, roll out, and support migrating to Aruba Wi-Fi 802.1X via HQ and 2 out of state offices.  - Built and maintained user hardware and images to efficiently and quickly deploy a new machine with tools already established as an MSP, resulting in direct savings of 3rd parties cost.  - Directly worked with Dell Business to discount, group, and order hardware for onsite and offsite locations.  - Inventoried and tracked all IT finances along with licensing audits to comply with contracts of our service providers and tools.  - Implemented and streamlined a new hire process to ensure each team had the correct software and hardware ready day of start.  - Configured and deployed infrastructure services with WindowsWindows?  server for new DHCP Scopes, AD, Group Policy, Bit locker, Print and NFS shares. Education High school or equivalent Skills change control (6 years), contracts (5 years), Deployment (6 years), firewalls (5 years), Networking (5 years), System Administration (6 years), Security (6 years), Virtualization (6 years), Compliance (6 years), WLAN (6 years), Windows Server (6 years), System Admin, Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ August 2016 to August 2021 Ciena CE-A November 2018 Ciena CE-A