Sr.DevOps Engineer Sr.DevOps Engineer Sr.DevOps Engineer - Ford Work Experience Sr.DevOps Engineer Ford - Dearborn, MI March 2017 to Present • Responsible for effective provisioning, configuration, operation, and maintenance of systems hardware and software and overall infrastructure.  • Responsible for designing fault-tolerant mechanisms for keeping distributed systems healthy, and developing proactive monitoring back to DevOps and the development teams.  • Worked on Recommend and implement changes to existing hardware and operating system infrastructure including patches, users, file systems and kernel parameters.  • Responsible for managing the Chef Client nodes and upload the cookbooks to chef-server from workstation.  • Wrote build.xml for applications using MAVEN builds.  • Involved in chef-infra maintenance including backup/monitoring/security fix and Server backups.  • Automated the cloud deployments using Ansible, python and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  • Wrote Ansible Playbooksas part of Configuration Management for setting up the environment and deployment of artifacts in various Environments dynamically without manual intervention.  • Extensively involved in maintaining large amounts of structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data across multiple data centers and the cloud using Cassandra.  • Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins CI tool using Ansible on AWS EC2 instances.  • Integrated Jenkins with various DevOps tools such as Nexus, HP CDA, HP ALM and HP QTP.  • Configured various jobs in Jenkins & Hudson for deployment of Java based applications and running test suites. Responsible for CI environments (Jenkins, Nexus, Sonar)  • Setup ANT script based jobs in Jenkins and Worked with Jenkins Pipelines.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using Ant and Maven as build tools in Jenkins to move into different environments and also create new jobs and branches through Jenkins.  • Strong experience utilizing Jenkins for enterprise scale infrastructure configuration and application deployments & checking out the code from GIT and use Ant/Maven to build Jar, war and earartifacts.  • Setting up servers through using AWS for deployment or other uses for application.  • Maintaining a farm of AWS solution using EC2 instances, ELB's, S3, EBS, Auto Scaling and RDS.  • Developing Cloud formation templates to launch VPC's and instances in the AWS cloud.  • Provisioning Web Servers in AWS and DNS route53 records.  • Experience with Docker and Vagrant for different infrastructure setup and testing of code.  • Deployed Docker Engines in Virtualized Platforms for containerization of multiple applications.  • Excellent in Setting up monitoring tools like Nagios and Amazon Cloud watch to monitor major metrics like Network packets, CPU utilization, Load Balancer Latency.  • Creating cookbook for provisioning servers like Jenkins, Splunk, Sensu and Chef-server.  • Created database tables that can store and retrieve any amount of data, and serve any level of request traffic using DynamoDB. Worked on NoSQLdatabase software application using Cassandra.  • Worked on User administration setup, maintaining account, Monitor system performance using Nagios and Zabbix. Implemented a Nagios monitoring system to notify of system issues.  • Proficiency in multiple databases like MongoDB, MySQL, ORACLE, DynamoDB&MS SQL Server.  • Used IAM to create new accounts, roles and groups.  • Configured S3 versioning and lifecycle policies to backup files and archive files in Glacier.  • Configured Elastic Load Balancers with EC2 Autoscalling groups.  • Worked on monitoring, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using CloudWatch.  • Migrated applications to the AWS cloud.  • Scripting in multiple languages on UNIX, LINUX and Windows - Batch, Shell script etc.  • Participated in the release cycle of the product which involves environments like Development QA UAT and Production.  • Worked with different team members for automation of Release components.  Environment: Linux/Unix, Docker, AWS, GIT, Chef, JIRA, Shell scripts, Bash, ANT 1.8/1.9, Maven, Apache Tomcat 6.x/7.x, Jenkins1.x, Amazon S3 Buckets, EC2, EBS, CentOS, Nexus Maven, Splunk, Nagios 4.x/5.x, Java, J2EE. DevOps Engineer Digital Insight - Redwood City, CA January 2016 to February 2017 • Responsible for day-to-day management of all Development, Test, Stage, and Production for various enterprise applications.  • Managed Maven project dependencies by creating parent-child relationships between projects.  • Building and Administering the Jenkins Continuous Integration servers.  • Built and Configured Jenkins Slaves for Parallel Job execution. DevOps Engineer Avanade - Chicago, IL January 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities:    • Provided support for other users of Puppet and applications that were managed via Puppet.  • Used JIRA as ticket tracking, change management and Agile/SCRUM tool.  • Configured new Amazon EC2 server and configured Docker in RHEL 6.8  • Configured Docker and created different containers to run different application instances for DEV and PROD environment.  • Installed/Configured/Managed Jenkins CI Automation.  • Built, configured and administered Jenkins Continuous Integration tool on Linux machines along with adding/updating plugins such as SVN, GIT, Maven, ANT, and Puppet.  • Created Amazon EC2 instances using command line calls and troubleshoot the common problems with instances and monitor the health of Amazon EC2 instances and other AWS services  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Installed, configured, and supported Puppet to create and enforce standardization across environments.  • Worked on Management of Puppet automation tool including installation of Puppet agent on client.  • Worked on Puppet extensively for deployment for servers, creating on custom scripts and managing changes through Puppet master server on its clients.  • Configured Puppet Server for monitoring and installing Puppet Agents in multiple Perform automated user management, installation and configuration of various services and backup-using Puppet.  • Used Git for version control and sub versioning.  • Assembled Puppet Master, Agent, and Database servers on multiple Redhat Enterprise Linux Platforms.  • Designed Puppet Modules to manage configurations and automate installation process.  • Configured Puppet Master and Clients in Cloud Microsoft Azure to host Ubuntu servers.  • Configured HA web servers in Azure cloud.  • Perform Linux Kernel tuning for web, database and application servers.  • Install/configure/maintain the Linux servers, NIS, DNS, NFS, Mailing List, Send mail, apache, ftp, sshd.  • Extensively involved in writing scripts on Bash, Shell and Ruby  • Installation and configuration of Web Apache Server.  • Monitoring of the system using Nagios and worked on installation or update of patch software's, firmware, and security patches for all applications in installed infrastructure via RedHat network.  • Performed Memory, CPU and Apache process tuning and reconfigured Apache server inhttpd.conf.  • Installation and configuration of Apache WebServer in a LAMP stack.  • Managed user and database on the MySQL database granting different levels of permissions.  • Managed servers on the Rackspace cloud server platform using Puppet configuration management.  • Developed automation scripting in Python using Puppet to deploy and manage Java applications across Linux servers.  Environment: RedHat Linux 6.0, CentOs 6.0, Rackspace, AWS, Docker, Jenkins, SVN, Azure, Nagios, Jira, Maven, Apache, Samba, Puppet, AD, Rackspace, Imperva, DNS, FTP, NFS, MySQL, SAN Storage, GIT, Red, AIX 5.x, Logical Volume Manger for Linux and AIX, VMware ESX Server 3.5/4.0,, VeritasNetbackup, Apache 2.0. Configuration Manager and Testing Inventory Locator Service - Memphis, TN December 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:    • Worked closely with the Development Team in the design phase and participated in creating the build and deployment process.  • Worked with the Architects on SDLC process being the owner of post development environments.  • Extensive usage of Tortise SVN in Windows environment for version control activities.  • Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming conventions using Subversion (SVN) source control.  • Performed all necessary day-to-day GitHub support for different projects like Check-in, Checkouts, import, export, branching, tagging, and conflict resolution.  • Implemented &maintained the branching and build/release strategies utilizing GitHub in Linux environments.  • Analyzed the ANT Build projects for conversion.  • Converting the ANT Build projects to Maven Build projects.  • Managing Maven project dependencies by creating parent-child relationships between projects.  • Creating new build jobs, Integration testing jobs and deploy jobs in Jenkins to automate the process.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with ANT and Maven to schedule the builds.  • Researched and implemented code coverage and unit test plug-ins like find bugs, check style and PMD with Maven/Jenkins.  • Installed and configured Nexus Repository Manager to share the artifacts between the teams within the company.  • Used Maven dependency management system to deploy snapshot and release artifacts to Nexus to share artifacts across projects and environments.  • Involved in periodic archiving and storage of the source code for disaster recovery.  • Create and Build Jenkins jobs and store the build artifacts in Nexus and uDeploy by using preconfigured scripts.  • Carried out Builds and Deployments on various environments using Build Forge CI tool.  • Worked on Administration and User Management of Build Forge.  • Used Harvest and IBM Rational Clear Case for Source code Management.  • Performed Branching and Merging in coordination with the Dev Team Leads.  • Wrote MAVEN Scripts to automate the build process.  • Used Shell/Perl scripts to automate the deployment process.  • Coordinated all the IT projects successfully by resolving release interdependencies and planning release.  • Planning, scheduling and documenting releases at code Freeze Periods.  • Sole person to be responsible for Release/Change control Process.  • Worked with many teams of strength more than 30 and managed 2 release/build engineers. Systems Administrator Four - Soft Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities:    • Worked on Troubleshooting server hardware and software remotely thru MOM (monitoring software)  • Performed installation, configuration and maintenance of Red hat Linux 5.x, 6.x.  • Operated HP and DELL servers running on Red hat Linux and SUSE Linux 9/10.  • Increase Linux kernel memory, preformed kernel upgrades and swaps area.  • Hands free kickstart installation Red hat Linux.  • Administrated, configured and maintained DNS, DHCP, NIS, NFS in Red hat Linux other Network Services.  • Using various tools to design and test a Disaster Recovery solution for all business critical applications and systems, including AIX, Linux and Solaris systems.  • Using VMware virtual infrastructure, VMwareESX to consolidation and virtualization in servers.  • Worked on installation and configuration of DevOps Tool Puppet.  • Worked with DevOps team to automate the infrastructure and deployment of application using Puppet.  • Administering, building, monitoring and troubleshooting IBM AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, RHEL5.x/6.x, Windows 2003/2008 servers on P-Series, Dell and Compaq hardware platforms.  • Installations of Oracle to preform kernel tuning on AIX systems  • To develop and test performed DBAs to configure File Systems, users and group for OracleDatabase on AIX servers and performed health check on various instance type from production.  • Exposed to work on GIT for version control.  • Deployed and configured, Windows 2000/ 2003 Servers, with DHCP, DNS, IIS, Active Directory Domain Controllers, Group Policy, Internet, TCP/IP, and Routing concept.  • Performed design, installation, configuration, support, optimization and administration of Windows-based servers and applications as well as provide performance tuning and capacity planning.  • Responsible for Basic Router Configuration and network equipment (Cisco, Linksys, Net gear, DLink, Brocade Switches)  • Provided remote support for VPN Technologies for site-to-site and remote access.  • Responsible for GPO software rollout and GPO policy lockdowns.  • Provided after-hours on-call support by participating in the on-call rotation.  • Installed new software releases, system upgrades and resolve software-related problems.  • Configured remote backup & automated through script.  • Developed Shell for system administration activities.  • Installed Hard Disks, Memory etc.  • Worked on Troubleshooting Network Problem.  • Managed CPU Usage, Shared Memory, Disk Space Usage and Controlling Processes.    Environment: Red hat Linux 4.0, 5.0, AIX 5.1/5.2/5.3, VMware ESX Server 3.5.0, JBOSS, Remedy, EMC Power Path, Sun Solaris 8, 9, 10, Solstice Disk Suite, VERITAS Cluster Server, Enterprise Security Manager, Opsware, Web logic 8.1, Oracle 9i/10g. Systems Engineer Lanco Global Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Installation, Configuration and Upgrading of Red Hat server software and related products.  • Installation of patches and packages using RPM and YUM in Redhat Linux using patch add and pkgadd in Linux Operating System.  • Worked on Grub, PXE boot, Kickstart, Packages, LVM, Boot from SAN, file system configuration.  • Maintaining the Disk Management by using partitioning tool like FDISK.  • Monitored the servers and Linux scripts regularly and performed troubleshooting steps - Tested and installed the latest software on server for end-users.  • Bash Shell Scripting and Python Scripting for job automation.  • Creation of Jumpstart and Kickstart configuration for the automatic provision of servers using Bladelogic.  • On-call support for 24/7 for troubleshooting production issues.  • Creating a change requests, work orders and problem tickets using BMC Remedy tool and getting approvals from higher officials.  • Project Management for various UNIX/Linux/Windows system integration projects.  Environment: Linux, VMWare, RHEL, Ubuntu, Solaris, AIX and Windows, Shell, Oracle 9i, DB2, Sybase, SQL Server, BMC Remedy, Shell, Bash, Python, Nagios, Sitescope, Spuk and Ganglia. Skills LINUX (9 years), ORACLE (7 years), Git (6 years), SCRIPTING (5 years), MS SQL SERVER (4 years) Additional Information Technical Proficiency:  SCM Tools GIT Hub, Perforce, Subversion, TFS  Build Tools Ant, Maven and MS Build  CI Tools Jenkins, Bamboo, AnthillPro  DevOps tools Docker, Vagrant, Ansible, Chef, Puppet, AWS  Bug tracker & Testing JIRA, Bugzilla, JUnit, NUnit,  Project Management Tools Atlassian Tools, Base Camp, MS Project, MS Share point  SDLC Agile, Scrum Methodologies, Waterfall  Servers JBOSS, Apache Tomcat, Oracle Web logic, IBM Web sphere, IIS Server  Environment Eclipse2.3, MS Visual Studio, Rational Application Developer7.0  Languages C, JAVA/J2EE  Scripting Languages Shell Script, ANT Script, Python Script, Ruby Script Power Shell Script  Platforms Linux 4/5, UNIX, Ubuntu, Fedora, Windows server 2012/NT/XP/Vista/7/8  Database Systems SQL Server, Oracle 9i/10g-PL/SQL, MS Access, DB2, Mongo DB, Cassandra