Network Engineer Network Engineer Mission Viejo, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer REDHAWK COMMUNICATIONS, INC. June 2019 to Present • Sustain the necessary data throughput rate by monitoring networking activity and maintaining existing equipment  • Maintain the company phone system and work closely with the phone service provider to keep the lines active  • Respond to network connectivity issues and resolve any wireless communication issues within the confines of the office  • Update the network maintenance manual and submit a summary of changes to the manual each week to management  • Collaborate with third-party support and service vendors to ensure that the network stays operational Integrated Solutions Consultant AT&T August 2018 to Present Sell AT&T products and services in the residential customer's home in coordination with their DIRECTV installation.  • Assist residential customers with setting up new devices and applications during the home visit.  • Achieve sales and service objectives.  • Work assigned daily appointments within a specific area/territory • Track and report activities through established processes and procedures. Solutions Engineer MERIDIAN NETWORK SERVICES February 2018 to July 2018 Thoroughly review, analyze, and document details regarding client IT infrastructure and make valuable recommendations to client point of contact and/or PDS Management on how to improve client security, business continuity, and efficiency.  • Perform system management duties on servers and workstations, manage enterprise directory services, install and manage network equipment for various and diverse individual client networks.  • Effectively document, troubleshoot, and resolve server, workstation, and network problems and research issues when necessary.  • Install and/or deploy a wide variety of software and operating systems.  • Manage client system disaster recovery plans to ensure reliable archival of all system data using a variety of technologies.  • Manually Remove Malware • Maintain internal databases on computers and network information and document configuration changes as they are made.  • Create and maintain accurate time logs of services rendered as service is delivered to clients.  • Research, identify, and recommend IT products and services of all kinds based on the value they can provide to individual client environments.  • Conduct and accurately interpret the results of diagnostics and testing on computer and network equipment.  • Install a wide variety of hardware including all types of hard drives, memory, CD/DVD drives, motherboards, network cards, workstations, servers, printers, scanners, and network equipment.  • Interconnect network devices from various vendors to build functioning networks.  • Create, Modify, Recommend & Articulate the importance of strong Information Technology & Security Policies in a collaborative manner with other Engineers and Client Staff.  • Combine standard job duties to design new and improve upon existing technology solutions and policies to ensure proper infrastructure and systems are in place to support critical business functionality. Systems Administrator REDHAWK COMMUNICATIONS, INC. June 2015 to January 2018 • Fully support, configure, maintain and upgrade corporate customer's networks and in house servers • Install and integrate new server hardware and applications • Support and administer third-party applications • Ensure network security and connectivity • Monitor network performance (availability, utilization, throughput, goodput, and latency) and test for weaknesses • Set up user accounts, permissions and passwords • Perform system management duties on servers and workstations, manage enterprise directory services, install and manage network equipment for various and diverse individual client networks.  • Effectively document, troubleshoot, and resolve server, workstation, and network problems and research issues when necessary.  • Install and/or deploy a wide variety of software and operating systems.  • Manage client system disaster recovery plans to ensure reliable archival of all system data using a variety of technologies.  • Manually Remove Malware Education AA in Liberal Studies SADDLEBACK COLLEGE 2014 BA in English UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY, Still - Berkeley, CA Skills Cisco, security, Vmware, Active Directory, Exchange