Technical Consultant Technical Consultant Server Administrator, Contractor - Akira Technologies Palm Harbor, FL Customer focused with attention to detail providing Information Technology support with high integrity. High attention to detail and a passion to helping others. Developing productive partnerships with management, customers, and vendors. Self-disciplined, self-starter who can successfully identify, resolve, and communicate issues with systems infrastructure and applications. Strong communication skills and effective listening skills. Seeking an Azure Administrator position in the Palm Harbor, Florida area. Work Experience Technical Consultant Computer Services - Palm Harbor, FL August 2016 to Present Remote Azure Administration.  Created and deployed Virtual Machines.  Azure portal user management.  Azure AD configuration including virtual network support.  Desktop, laptop, and server support.   Responsible for troubleshooting hardware and repair.  Operating system upgrades. Server Administrator, Contractor Akira Technologies - Key West, FL April 2015 to May 2015 Short term contract with Top Secret clearance.  Reviewed and evaluated system, event, and security logs for problems or issues and take corrective actions as needed.  Maintained server security to include IAVA, hotfixes, and patches as required. System Administrator, Contractor KForce Government Solutions - Kauai, Hawaii, US February 2015 to March 2015 SR Systems Administrator, Contractor Computer Sciences Corporation - Warner Robins, GA November 2010 to January 2015 Enterprise level administration of Active Directory and identity management.  Responsible for monitoring appropriate systems and to ensure optimum level of performance.  Provided administration and troubleshooting of RedHat Enterprise and Windows 2003 – 2012 Server.  Implemented DoD STIG’s in accordance to DISA compliance.  Dell and HP server hardware support. Support for Windows 200x/Intel based server OS and hardware administration, configuration, installation, and troubleshooting.  Installed and configured Windows 2008 – 2012 Dell PowerEdge servers. Computer Support Technician, Contractor Chenega Advanced Solutions & Engineering - Warner Robins, GA December 2012 to May 2013 Senior Systems Technician, Contractor Lockheed Martin - Warner Robins, GA December 2010 to December 2012 Systems Administrator, Contractor Pelatron Incorporated - Baghdad, IQ May 2009 to May 2010 Enterprise level of administering Active Directory and identity management.  Monitor and maintain servers running Windows Server 2003 – 2008 operating systems.  Created and installed software images on new PCs and install software programs.  Monitored and managed virus scans to remediate any vulnerability found.  Systems Administration of DHCP, Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, and McAfee Antivirus. Help Desk Administrator, Contractor ITT Systems - Baghdad, IQ September 2006 to September 2007 Responsible for creating and managing Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange accounts.  Identified problems, troubleshoot, and coordinated with other IT areas to resolve problems.   Responsible for assisting Information Management Officers in configuring, installing and integrating personal computers and workstations into a complex LAN and WAN computing environment.  Support for Windows XP and Microsoft Office 2007. Education Associate in Computer Science RCH Technical Institute - Renton, WA Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION, VPN, R2, IMAGING, ACD, WINDOWS 10, WINDOWS 7, PROBLEM SOLVING Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/slewis4 Additional Information SKILLS/KNOWLEDGE    • Microsoft Azure AD • Active Directory • Remote Desktop  • Email • System Administration • Backup Automation  • VPN • ACD • Problem solving  • Server 2012 R2, Server 2016 • Office 365 • Powershell  • Windows 10 • Windows 7 • Imaging