Network Administrator Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Fedcap Group, Inc New York, NY Information Technology Professional with 10 years' experience in Systems Engineering and Network Administration. Proficient with Microsoft Windows servers 2003/2008/2012, XP/ Vista/ Windows 7/ Windows 10, Mac, Linux and Unix systems.  Extensive hands-on knowledge of network equipment and protocols, TCP/IP, LAN, WAN, CISCO switches, routers, VPN, virtualization (VMware client and VMware server), firewalls, cybersecurity, Proxy server and Exchange Server.  In addition, I have considerable experience with disaster recovery, project management, Network+, A+, MySQL, Big Data, content management systems (Joomla, Drupal, WordPress), Google Cloud platform, Azur, Office 365, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, and Python.  Furthermore, I have developed procedures, policies, technical manuals, software guides, executive briefings and presentations. As a team leader, I have participated in planning, executing, monitoring and controlling IT projects. In terms of personal development, I have participated in training sessions, workshops and boot camps to broaden my technical knowledge of CCNA, MCSA, CompTIA A+, Network+, Security+, and SharePoint.  Authorized to work in the US for any employer. Work Experience Network Administrator Fedcap Group, Inc January 2019 to Present My current responsibilities include:  • Monitoring network/server using a variety of tools and creating a stable infrastructure (Event Tracker, Netwrix Auditor, LogMeIn Central)  • Creating and modifying user accounts AD/O365, storage directories and permissions on perm/SharePoint  • Implementing the corporate cybersecurity program.  • Working closely with senior management to update IT security policies and procedures, and providing training on corporate security requirements using KnowB4  • Maintaining data and security access and preventing unauthorized access  • Preparing all yearly IT audit documentation  • Delivering system/network infrastructure deployment projects on enterprise level (Symantec, Printer Logic, Deep Freeze cloud, Mobile Device Management (MDM) using IBM Maas360, LogMeIn Central and LogMeIn Rescue)  • Deploying and managing on-premise/cloud platform servers (Azure infrastructure and server backup) and web site administration  • Assessing security breaches and deploying tools such as Barracuda, Knowbe4, Symantec and Event Tracker System Engineer Harlem Children's Zone (HCZ) February 2017 to December 2018 My responsibilities included:  • Directing and execution of new/upgraded information systems  • Monitoring network performance and security using PRTG and providing reports to IT Director  • Making suggestions and recommendations to the Director of IT regarding systems, security, performance and current and future needs  • Researching new technology/tools and making recommendations to the Director of IT  • Developing computer information resources, including upgrading email and network management and providing for disaster recovery and data security and control  • Communicating and administering standard IT operating procedures and policies  • Recommending changes to improve systems and network configurations, and determining hardware or software requirements related to such changes  • Coordinating, supervising and scheduling the installation and maintenance of HCZ's infrastructure  • Supervising, directing and setting priorities for desktop support; and monitoring maintenance, upgrades, replacements, training and support for all classrooms, public and lab computers, and faculty and staff workstations  • Keeping abreast of trends, technologies and regulations within the IT field to ensure effectiveness and compliance, and providing advice and recommendations to HCZ IT Service Desk Technician United Nations April 2015 to November 2016 • Provided comprehensive technical support to United Nations staff and delegates on all hardware and software issues  • Designed and implemented local area networks  • Managed servers  • Monitored and secured networks  • Investigated security breaches  • Database management  • Conducted end-user training Senior IT Officer African Child Policy Forum (ACPF) October 2014 to March 2015 • Administered the LAN/WAN (both wired and wireless network)  • Managed Windows 2008 and 2012 Print Server and all networked Dell, Canon, Kyocera, HP printers and scanners  • Managed weekly Server backup and tape rotation including storing the backup to offsite third party  • Controlled and maintained hosted Microsoft Exchange environment  • Managed and configured Cisco-based equipment routers, switches and access points (AP)  • Configured and managed IPCop (an open source Linux Firewall)  • Fully tested and deployed centralized systems to manage documents (using KnowledgeTree) and media (ResourceSpace)  • Provided remote support for partners in Uganda and Kenya using TeamViewer and LogMeIn remote control software  • Responsible for all software license compliances and all hardware lease replacements  • Managed and updated ACPF's content management system (CMS) websites and the internal portal built on Joomla  • Responsible for generating reports on website traffic and hits using Google Analytics and presenting them to senior management  • Managed ACPF's data and statistical portal  • Managed QuickBooks and Peachtree backup and disaster recovery systems  • Evaluated technology needs and usage and recommended improvements  • Planned, reviewed and managed all IT-related activities and operational budget  • Consulted users, management, vendors, and technicians to assess computing needs and system requirements and resolve problems Network Engineer Tulane University October 2012 to September 2014 • Worked daily with BMC Remedy 6.3 ticketing system; initiated, updated, tracked, and closed network trouble tickets.  • Supported the Ethiopian Ministry of Health to deploy eHMIS and SmartCare software for over 25 governmental hospitals and 120 health centers. The primary tasks included site surveys, design network layout, network implementation, coordination with vendors regarding IT equipment purchases, computer cloning and cabling. In addition, I was responsible for setting up data center equipment (AC, racks, servers (DELL PowerEdge), UPS, KVM switches, Cisco Aironet Access Points, Cisco Catalyst 2960X PoE switches, routers), configuring VLAN and installing both eHMIS and SmartCare. I also trained clients, provided continuous support and prepared network, system and project documentation.  • Designed, configured, tested and maintained a new network infrastructure; implemented and supported local firewalls, Fedora proxy servers, DHCP servers, File servers, SQL Servers, Print servers, AD, DNS, and VoIP; and created policies and procedures.  • Scheduled and performed Windows 2003/2008 /SQL Server backup and loaded tapes and disks on a weekly basis, including recovery operation.  • Recommended changes to improve systems and network configurations and determined hardware or software requirements related to such changes.  • Implemented and provided technical support for voice services and equipment, such as private branch exchange (PBX), voice mail system, and telecom systems.  • Played a role in setting up client and partner VPN and reviewed the security policy/ACL.  • Diagnosed, carried out troubleshooting and resolved hardware, software and other network and system problems, and replaced defective components.  • Implemented network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware.  • Checked and optimized network performance.  • Installed, configured, monitored and maintained email applications, anti-virus protection software (Kaspersky 6.0) and other related client software.  • Gathered data pertaining to customer needs and used the information to identify, predict, interpret and evaluate system and network requirements. Systems Administrator October 2009 to September 2012 • Excellent experience with DELL PowerEdge servers, HP blade servers, IBM servers, Dell desktops, laptops, server hardware, software, devices and protocols (HP OpenView, CISCO, Router, AP and Switch).  • Responsible for installing, configuring, administering and troubleshooting AD, DHCP, DNS and WINS on Windows NT/Windows 2000/2003 and 2008 servers.  • Installed, administered, and carried out troubleshooting for DOS, Windows 3.1x, Window/98/ME, Windows NT 3.5-4.0, Win2k, Vista and XP and Windows 7.  • Planned and implemented system security policy.  • Diagnosed and resolved client network problems (Ethernet, Wi-Fi and VPN).  • Designed, tested and implemented routers, switches, complex multi VLANs and firewalls.  • Performed minor hardware and peripheral repairs.  • Researched and evaluated purchases.  • Maintained and managed Kaspersky anti-virus 6.0 for enterprise edition  • Performed successful migration from Exchange 2007 to Exchange 2010.  • Performed preventative maintenance on the server.  • Assisted with testing and certifying patches for the Windows Server.  • Performed site surveys, design and construction for big data centers.  • Prepared reports, documentation and self-help instructions.  • Developed and put into effect IT policies.    Career development  • I am actively upgrading my skills and knowledge using Prularsight.com and Lynda.com Education MSc. in Computer Science HiLCoE School of Computer - Addis Ababa, ET October 2011 to October 2015 Bsc. in Management Information Systems Unity University College - Addis Ababa, ET September 2001 to August 2005 Skills Active directory, Dns, Exchange, Iis, Virtualization, Citrix, Lan/wan, Vpn, Cms, Mdm, Saas, Dreamweaver, Sharepoint, C#, C++, Javascript, Php, Python, Ruby, Rails, Technical Support, Customer Service, Networking, Windows, Vmware, Microsoft Office, Security, Windows 7, MAC Links http://linkedin.com/in/birukmteklu Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification Additional Information Skills  • Windows Server 2012/16  • Domains Active Directory  • DNS, IIS, VPN, MDT, WSUS  • Windows Firewall  • Microsoft Exchange  • Windows 7/8/10  • Virtualization  • Group Policy  • PowerShell  • SharePoint  • Office 365  • Azure  • SaaS  • Citrix  • LAN/WAN  • Linux, Unix,  • IOS and Android  • IBM Mass360 (MDM)  • Netwrix Auditor  • KnowBe4  • Barracuda  • MimeCast  • PRTG    Databases  • SQL  • RDBMS  • Apache  Programming languages  • Java, JavaScript  • C, C++, C#  • Python  • PHP  • Ruby on Rails    CMS  • Drupal  • Adobe Dreamweaver Joomla  • WordPress