System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Aquia Harbour, VA Marine and IT professional looking to learn new skills within the culinary industry. Work Experience System Administrator GDIT February 2018 to May 2019 Responsible for maintaining the day-to-day operations of the NATO network "BICES" within the country of Kuwait  ? Provided first tier troubleshooting support to over 800 users aboard Camp Arifjan, as well as external site support to 4 additional bases  ? Worked as a liaison between NATO forces and the BICES network to ensure account application paperwork was filled and submitted properly, account creation was prompt and timely, and all accounts were configured in accordance with respective NATO member's nationality and clearance level  ? Responsible for repairing and maintaining physical network System Administrator Northrop Grumman March 2017 to December 2017 Build and configure enterprise level architectures consisting of servers, workstations, printers, and NFS systems  ? Work closely with software and hardware vendors to provide first-time integration of products on to Red Hat Enterprise Linux based hosts and servers  ? Configured operating system hardening, as well as OMi system health monitoring software  ? Created locally-generated Standard Operating Procedures for building, maintaining, and configuring deliverable products Intelligence Systems Chief 13th Marine Expeditionary Unit December 2014 to March 2017 Lead Administrator of the 13th Marine Expeditionary Unit's Intelligence Analysis Server, Global Command and Control System, and Palantir servers  ? Singular point of contact for adjacent deployed units requiring support for Intelligence Workstations  ? Provided configuration and troubleshooting support for the 13th Marine Expeditionary Unit's Operations section, on Unix and Windows based server systems  ? Point of contact for network troubleshooting and support by the Communications section of the 13th Marine Expeditionary Unit  ? Provided mission critical troubleshooting support on Navy and Marine Corps information systems respectively, in order to ensure continued operational capabilities in the analytical cell of the 13th Marine Expeditionary Unit, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom.  ? Established functionality and connectivity of classified systems in tactical environments  ? Created the standard operating procedure for backing up data on the Intelligence Analysis Server  ? Independently and properly executed accountability and handling of classified material Help Desk Shift Supervisor 1st Radio Battalion January 2014 to December 2014 Provided Tier I and II help desk support to over 1,200 users across multiple domains and classified systems (NIPR, SIPR, NSAnet, and JWICS) to include VOIP/VTC systems.  ? Worked closely with customers to troubleshoot end user issues, frequently achieved first contact resolution.  ? Responsible for maintaining day to day operations of Unclass, Secret, and Top Secret networks to over 2000 end users  ? Successfully maintained exchange services and Active Directory Configurations for over 2000 users across 5 separate networks System Administrator 1st Radio Battalion March 2012 to January 2014 Ensured accountability and proper function of over 8 million dollars worth of radio, satellite communication, and server equipment, as well as laptops  ? Frequently coordinated and oversaw the proper disposition and documentation of outdated military equipment of varying classification levels Education Center for Information Dominance March 2015 Associate of the Arts in General Studies Pierce Community College - Puyallup, WA July 2012 to January 2013 Skills Linux, Red hat, Unix, Active directory, Operations, Processing specialist, Antenna, Hf, Cryptographic, Uhf, Windows 10, Windows 2000, Windows 7, Windows xp, Training