Linux Engineer/Researcher Linux Engineer/Researcher Saint Petersburg, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux Engineer/Researcher Tampa, FL August 2018 to January 2019 • Supported Linux backend servers for data processing and development and testing environments.  • Daily SCRUM for project management.  • Developed and performed experiments with Ion Engine and Multi-Element Aperture SDR Radio Array.  • Collected and Analyzed data from experiments to quantify impact of variables.  • Performed calculations utilizing LibreOffice, GoogleDocs and SageMath (an opensource version of MatLab)  • Mentored fellow researchers on topics.  • Manufactured of parts needed for experiments; Including: fuel tank and antenna “assured-alignment” jig.  • Operated Hybrid Recombinent Ion Engine and Multi-Element Aperture Software Defined Radio Array.  • Researched satellite frequencies and transmission modes; Satellite position tracking.  • Manufactured and assembled Multi-Element Aperture Software Defined Radio Array.  • Contributed to team problem solving exercises. Project Manager/Developer/Network Engineer Pinellas Park, FL January 2016 to April 2018 • Managed developer resources, identifying features and tasks, and assigning to staff based on priority  • Performed imports of customer data, generated performance reports, managed customer contracts  • Worked with developers in a "pair coding" environment to test and debug changes, utilizing github, for continuous integration environment  • Designed, implemented and maintained PHI-secure network architecture  • Designed, implemented and maintained Ubuntu 14.04/16.04 server cloud using XEN VM for web hosts and separate MySQL/MariaDB database server, all on a shoe-string budget  • Evaluated, reviewed and interpreted government specifications and regulatory compliance standards for Medicare's Physician Quality Reporting System program (PQRS/MIPS)  • Interpreted and designed algorithms for evaluating nearly 400 "quality measures"  • Interpreted and refined customer requirements for data collection, processing, reporting, and display  • Interpreted descriptive text from government specifications into human readable" form  • Analyzed existing rules engine spaghetti code, documented functionality, added modules to provide PQRS/MIPS functionality  • Designed and implemented database changes, as needed, to provide additional required functionality  • Designed and implemented API to provide additional required functionality for web UI (user interface)  • Developed Specialty Forms to ensure all appropriate performance measures would be reported for patients during physician encounters  • Developed "Direct Entry" UI to allow for reporting on a single rule for multiple patients, en masse  • Built UI for interfacing with existing rules engine and added additional reporting functionality Systems Engineer Saint Petersburg, FL July 2013 to January 2015 Labs Group -- Financial Systems R&D  • Developed credit card that facilitated spending Bitcoin  • Develop new ideas related to payments into proof-of-concept projects  • Developed integration with Ripple, a general ledger for currency exchange leading to the launch of a new company (Shift Payments)  • Developed Android App that utilized Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) for location services  • Developed Android App for credit card review and account management  ? "Place centric view"  ? Control over exactly what merchants will be authorized  ? User defined place names using UTF8 character set  • Finalist in 2014 CitiBank Mobile Challenge with development of Android App that integrates CitiBank accounts and Ripple wallet  • Research into Bitcoin for inter-country remittances to a credit card  • Collected research for focus group on how people feel about payments  • Research into what it takes to start a bank  • Constructed "DIY cellphone" from individual components  • Laser cutter operation and maintenance  • Research into consumer budgeting methods and applications  • Envisioned features for "credit card 2.0"  ? Worked on 6 ideas that were explored as patentable  ? Circuit board component layout  ? 3D object design and printing Unix Administrator/Network Administrator Saint Petersburg, FL 2008 to March 2013 • Installation of Oracle Enterprise Linux 5 and OS level configuration changes for use with Oracle 11g in a High-Availability, multi-server, multiple-region environment utilizing SAN technology.  • Configuration of Storage Area Network (SAN) for use with Oracle 11g.  • Installation, configuration, maintenance and upgrades of Ubuntu 8, Ubuntu 9, Ubuntu 10 and Ubuntu 12, Debian 5 and Debian 6 Linux servers.  • Configuration of F5 load balancers  • Server performance evaluation and bottleneck determination  • Creation and maintenance of Virtual Machines on VMWare, ESXI3/4 hosting Linux and Windows systems  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of multiple Nagios and Big Brother servers for monitoring ports, services, processes and system resources on Linux, Windows, Solaris, Cisco, NetScreen, Adtran, and TelCo equipment.  • Network monitoring and trouble shooting using Multi-Router Traffic Grapher (MRTG), Wireshark, tcpdump, iptrace.  • Identification of Application-level problems by analyzing network layer communications.  • Configuration of Postfix email relays providing SSL encrypted user authentication, relaying based on POP3 authentication, grey-listing, spam filtering, virus checking, black listing, white listing, address re-addressing (aliases) and relaying.  • Configuration of VPN tunnels utilizing Cisco and Netscreen Firewall hardware and client-side software.  • Maintenance of Solaris 10 servers  • Maintenance and updates to Solaris based SpamAssassin mail gateways  • Maintenance of Redhat 4 and Redhat 5 servers (Linux)  • Consolidation of parallel production regions, halving the hardware and software footprint of the product.  • General administration of Asterix phone system  • Conversion of Windows 2000 domain to Windows 2007 and mail move  • Converted externally hosted "slice" website to internally hosted  • Maintenance of Sendmail system  • Unix/Linux administration of phone/fax/email product  • General IT support of small office Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Skills Networking (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Unix Administration (10+ years), Cisco (4 years), Project Management (Less than 1 year), Firewalls (5 years), PHP (1 year), Scrum (2 years), MySQL (1 year), Android (1 year), F5 Load Balancing (1 year), TCP/IP (10+ years), Nagios (2 years), TCP (10+ years), SSH (10+ years), Debian (10+ years), AIX (3 years), Solaris (3 years), Software Development (1 year), unity3d (1 year), Apache (3 years), mariaDB (1 year), FTP (10+ years), CNC (2 years), Programming (10+ years), bash scripting (10+ years), scripting (10+ years), Medical Terminology (1 year), Vmware (Less than 1 year), Networking (10+ years), SQL (3 years), VPN (5 years), LAN (10+ years), DNS (3 years), security (10+ years), fast learner (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), Word (10+ years)