Microsoft Software and Systems Academy | Cyber Security Microsoft Software and <span class="hl">Systems</span> Academy | Cyber Security CYBER SECURITY | INFORMATION SECURITY | SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION Charlotte, NC Cyber Security Professional and Navy Veteran with an Active Security Clearance and 10+ years of collective experience driving impactful IT support and information security initiatives. Technical experience in program management, troubleshooting, security threat analysis, information assurance, IT security governance, systems administration, and a focus in Cyber Security. Detailed in maintaining high levels of accuracy and efficiency while operating under pervasive pressure, as well as executing project implementation and IT infrastructure goals. Acclimated to risk concepts while prioritizing the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of those processes. Adept at quickly mastering new concepts and has a desire to master the latest technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Microsoft Software and Systems Academy | Cyber Security Microsoft July 2019 to Present Microsoft Software and Systems Academy is an intensive, full-time, 19-week bootcamp that incorporates academic and technical training, certification preparation, and practical labs and exercises designed to meet critical industry requirements for Cyber Security Professionals.  • Implemented Identity Access and Management strategies.  • Mastered the understanding of systems security policies and best practices.  • Demonstrated the understanding of internal security controls, assess risks and identified opportunities for improvement.  • Proven in Cyber Security Incident Response, Investigation, and Resolution life cycle.  • Validated in securing Windows Server 2016, virtualization, application development, and server-workload Infrastructures.  • Secure and monitored network traffic, files, data, and DNS with the use of numerous networking tools.  • Developed test cases with active malware assessment and output with IDA Pro.  • Developed a knowledge base of resources in security practices, and cyber defense models such as the MITRE's ATT&CK Framework and NIST Cyber Security Framework.  • Demonstrated Adversarial Thinking, Advanced Threat Analytics, and Red Team / Blue Team methodologies. Simulator Systems and Security Administrator United States Navy November 2014 to Present Responsible for the Air Traffic Control (ATC) Simulator IT and security infrastructure. This includes server management/maintenance, simulator setup, security processes and procedures, training, and IT security management.  • Demonstrated expertise in ATC technical and security administration that supported the ATC simulator systems program with code development, system upgrades, auditing, hardening, and routine maintenance.  • Developed test cases and procedures to ensure the security and conformance to Department of Defense and Federal Aviation Administration requirements.  • Developed training and security policies that protected the simulator from insider threats to auditing files and system manipulation.  • Proven ability to take on a high level of responsibility, initiative, and accountability. Systems Administrator Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC March 2012 to 2014 Monitored security systems availability and identified failures. Determined root cause and resolved through programming, onsite evaluation, manufacturer representative, and assisting IT teams. Developed incident response and recovery strategies related to Enterprise Protective Services and VMS for continuity purposes.  • Administered, designed, and integrated the hierarchy of corporate and contracted employee profiles into the Physical Access Control systems with analyzed and designed requirements that met NERC/CIP regulations.  • Represented the Enterprise Protective Services department in inter-departmental meetings to support and facilitate communication and action between NERC compliance and Cyber departments.  • Captured and enhanced requirements and identification of multi-level security threat opportunities that assessed the impact from other initiatives for various security and network monitoring tools.  • Assisted and documented routine maintenance in compliance with current policies and procedures and assisted in various projects involving departmental moves, system upgrades, and installations of physical and network security applications.  • Managed the data from all Access Control NERC & non-NERC systems for the assistance of inventory and hardware installation.  • Administered, designed, and integrated the hierarchy of corporate and contracted employee profiles into AMAG Access Control systems with analyzed and designed requirements that met NERC/CIP regulations.  • Functioned in day-to-day Security Console Operations environment. Information Technology Support Lead Lowes Corp Technology Service Center - Mooresville, NC January 2011 to 2012 Served as the tier 2 point of contact for Windows and MAC IT support related issues and provided first-level remote support for Windows and Mac users for software and hardware related issues.  • Installed, configured, tested, maintained, monitored, and troubleshoot end-user and network hardware, related equipment and software to deliver required desktop and laptop service levels.  • Provided support as necessary to the Network Administrators and Intel Engineers on special projects.  • Imaged, re-imaged, and created windows virtual machines compatible with MAC OS.  • Upgraded users to Windows 7 while maintaining the integrity of user data and application profile of 5,000+ corporate users.  • Repaired, staged, configured, and deployed iOS 4.3, iOS 5, and iOS6 iPhone and iPad software for Lowes retail stores nationwide.  • Served as team lead for iOS 5 rollout of 25K+ iPhones and, iPads to 2K+ Lowes Retail Stores. Mobility Resolution Support Tech Sprint - Charlotte, NC October 2009 to 2011 Facilitated resolution of the highest level for sensitive customer technical complaints regarding products and services received.  • Assisted with the array of hardware and/or software issues that evolved from outages and distributed software updates.  • Served as the subject matter expert in a project management role that implemented and produced resolutions for problematic issues to create a compelling experience for the customer base.  • Assisted customers by ensuring they were getting the most from technologies and services while maintaining competitive service goals. Education Bachelor of Science in Tech Management Cyber Security in Tech Management Cyber Security Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University 2021 Skills Security, Sharepoint, Active directory, Nagios, Sso, Nessus, Splunk, Wireshark, Html, Python, Network monitoring, Linux, Red hat, Unix, Sql, Java, Symantec, Bash, Mac, Microsoft office, SIEM (1 year), Vulnerability (1 year), Network Security, Information Security, Nist, Cyber Security Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/dorianswright Additional Information TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES    Enterprise Applications:  Microsoft Office, SharePoint, SSO, Symantec, Palo Alto, Wireshark, Active Directory, AirWatch, AMAG Security    Operating Systems:  Mac OSX, Windows Server 2016, UNIX, DOS, LINUX (Red Hat, Kali, Ubuntu)    Programming:  Python, HTML, Java, SQL, BASH, PowerShell C  Network Monitoring Tools:  Splunk, Nessus, Nagios    Cloud Servers:  Microsoft Azure, Amazon AWS