Systems Security Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Security Engineer Systems Security Engineer - Kohls Innovation Center Chicago, IL • Experienced Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4/5/6/7, Solaris 9.x/10.x, 11.x, Aix 5/6/7, VMware ESXi 3/4/5/6, System administrator with Telephony based Technical support to assist and provide clients with the best possible uptime and to reliable and accurate communication to get tasks completed.  • Expertise in deploying various Red Hat Enterprise Linux /CentOS builds both Physical and Virtual on HP/CISCO/Dell Hardware running ESXi utilizing Satellite and Puppet servers.  • Experience in migrating the entire UNIX (Solaris /AIX) environment to SUSE 11.1/11.2, RHEL 5.6/5.7/6.1/6.3 as a part of refresh project.  • Experience in RHEL server provisioning, upgrades, patching, configuration and Performance Tuning in Linux and VMware environment.  • Experience in designing build/configure documentation related to Red Hat Enterprise Linux via Spacewalk/Satellite/Kick start/Puppet servers.  • Experience in configuration of JVM heap configuration, thread pool and JDBC configuration to performance tune java applications running on Oracle WebLogic and Oracle RAC/ASM file systems.  • Expertise in the area of Virtualization with Installation, Configuration and Administration of VMware ESXi 4.1/5.0/5.1/5.5/5.6 and vCenter Server 4/5/6.  • Expertise in advance features of ESX/ESXi 4/5/6, vMotion, Storage vMotion, HA, DRS and Update manager.  • Experience in VMware Cloud solutions, including vCloud Director, vCloud Automation Center (VCAC), vCloud Orchestrator, vRealize Operation Manager, SRM, vCenter Operation and vCloud Networking and security (vShield).  • Experience in bash/Perl scripting knowledge for automation of entire UNIX Infrastructure.  • Expertise in migration VMware ESXi hosts/vCenter and VMware Update Manager by consolidating legacy datacenter to new datacenters.  • Experience in Veritas Volume manager, Veritas Netbackup, Samba and RAID technologies and admin tools.  • Expertise in deploying and managing Veritas Volume Manager and Veritas Cluster Server (VCS) for disk partitioning and HA needs. Work Experience Systems Security Engineer Kohls Innovation Center March 2017 to Present • Planning, executing the design, development, implementation of Power Broker Identity services (PBIS) and Power Broker Unix Linux (PBUL) in the UNIX environment which is Privilege & Identity access management tool (PAM /IAM) and supporting them so that every user who are supposed to have login access should be able to login.  • Converting eLdap PCI-SOX compliance and store servers to authenticate through Active Directory by installing PBIS on them.  • Designing and modifying the Wrapper scripts according to the application and saving it in github.  • Collecting the access.conf, user and group and privilege, oracle, oracle client and protegrity, service accounts data from servers which have to be migrated and providing to the BA's for analysis.  • Peer reviewing the GPO's (Server groups and access groups) in GPM after the windows team have created it.  • Creating and deleting the server objects and adding to the group using AD tools commands and by Active directory itself and making sure the server is in a proper OU and domain.  • Prechecking the servers for the migration includes, puppet conf, cron jobs, service accounts, PBUL, service accounts and server group mapping is done.  • Creating the change for the migration and assisting the Project manager/scrum master in the Scrum meetings and leading when he is not available.  • Modifing DNS, resolve.conf, nsswitch, pamtally, pam.d, system-auth files, hosts, and sudoer files when needed  • Requesting various ports to be opened like - port 53(dns), 88(kerberos), 389(ldap), 445(TCP IP), 464(KERBEROS and key chenaging services) etc.  • Making sure the roles are created correctly by the IAM team so that users are in proper access group.  • Communicating with the vendors and opening the tickets when support is needed and resolving the issues.  • Configuring SSH keys on the BT servers so that the service accounts could directly login without the password  • Backing out the servers when needed  • Making sure all the services are restarted and process are running after migration  • Checking the number of licenses are available and used within the given limits UNIX/LINUX/VMware System Administrator Fedex - Pittsburgh, PA May 2015 to March 2017 • Installed and configured Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6/7, CentOS 6/7 servers on CISCO UCS and HP C-7000 Physical Blades and VMware ESXi virtual environment.  • Setup and configured Red Hat Satellite, Spacewalk, Puppet and Kickstart servers for Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS installations and RHN Push updates.  • Prepare servers for Oracle RAC installation which includes tuning the kernel, agent installation, adding SAN storage and help create ASM File systems.  • Provide 24/7 support to Middleware application servers (Weblogic, Tomcat, JBoss), Web servers (Apache, IIS, Oracle IPlanet) and Database servers (Oracle RAC, DB2, MS SQL, MySQL).  • Configuring and administering SSH, SFTP, HTTP, SMTP, NFS, DNS, NIS, NIS+ and LDAP on OEL server environment.  • Provide support to Java development team to help develop Java based application o Oracle WebLogic Application Servers.  • Monitoring systems, resources, logs, disk usage and scheduling backups and restoring them.  • Performing Analysis of resources like CPU, Memory, Disk and Swap from command line using commands and tuning of the kernel parameters for the better performance of the operating system and TCP.  • Consolidated the entire environment from a Solaris 9/10/11, AIX 6/7 to a commodity based VMware ESXi based environment running RHEL 5/6/7 and SUSE10/11 on HP and IBM blades.  • Create and maintain scripts to ensure maximum security of all servers including closing specific firewall ports and implementing security software's.  • Installation, configuration and administration of VMware ESXi 5.0 and upgrading it to 5.5 and 6.0.  • Installed, configured and performed troubleshooting of VMware products vCAC, vCloud, Director, Infrastructure, Navigator, vCOPS, vROPS, vSphere, vCenter, Vcns, SRM and Shared Recovery sites across protected sites.  • Implemented and managed multiple VMware NSX software defined networks for new deployments.  • Responsible for capacity planning, designing, installation and configuration of newly provisioned HP-C7000 enclosures, ESXi servers running BL460'S and BL620's.  • Worked with application developers to upgrade from PeopleSoft application servers in Demo and development environment on Oracle Linux 6.1 servers.  • Preserved OEL server's integrity to max uptime to minimize any impact to client business. UNIX/LINUX / VMware System Administrator PSEG, Long Island, NY September 2013 to April 2015 • Worked with a team of Datacenter Support to maintain OS and Hardware.  • Build and develop Linux servers including web servers, MYSQL and Perl based solution to assist developers.  • Maintain and deploy high end application developed using Websphere Application Server.  • Provide support to the Java development team to help Java based application on WebLogic.  • Setup and configure AIX systems network setting up redundancy for network.  • Created both regular LPAR's and VIO LPARs.  • Performed installation, configuration and maintenance of AIX operating systems and its applications.  • Installed Oracle Enterprise Linux on HPDL585/385 G5 rack mount servers using PXE boot and ILO.  • Responsible for the installation, configuration and support of VMware and monitoring of the virtual environment.  • Application migration from Physical to virtual and virtual to virtual platforms.  • Participating in 24X7 Production on-call Support of Windows/Linux and provide technical support to users at remote datacenters.  • Building, configuring and deploying VM's using the template and cloning the VM's.  • Migrating and making affinity rules for the VM'S and vMotion the data store and hosts when needed.  • Implemented resource pools to divide the VM'S according to their resource requirement.  • Maintained user account management, configured servers to register with Red Hat network (RHN) Satellite server and monitored servers. UNIX/Linux System Administrator PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA January 2011 to September 2013 • Assisted various senior level Linux architects in installing, configuring and managing Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.  • Create and setup monitoring bash shell scripts to monitor system resources, logs, disk usage, scheduling backups and restore.  • Resolved and completed various maintenance tasks on UAT/Production servers and Apace software issues.  • Setup environment based sudo permissions to allow developers to perform day to day activities including running start/scripts in development environment. Education Master's in international business American college dublin - Dublin West, County Dublin September 2007 to September 2009 Master's Skills Vmware (5 years), System Administrator (7 years), Linux (7 years), Active Directory (5 years), Estimating, budget (5 years), Scheduling (5 years), maintenance (5 years), Outlook, Word (10+ years), Microsoft Project (4 years), Customer Service (5 years), Sales (5 years), Outlook (7 years), Word (10+ years), Customer Service (5 years), Microsoft Project, Sales (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Agile and scrum certified Present