Level II Technician Level II Technician Level II Technician Work Experience Level II Technician HD Supply - Atlanta, GA April 2017 to August 2019 • Provided accurate record keeping and metrics among helpdesk technicians resulting in the approval of necessary resources required for effective call organization and training. With the addition of reference guides and proper escalation procedures, a uniform data recording procedure was incorporated. Each technician was able to initiate, troubleshoot and conclude an incident with a consistent procedure that all members of the department could clearly follow. This resulted in less instances of systems engineers and administrative resources receiving interruptions during critical business hours and vital project responsibilities.  • Manage purchase orders and receipts to tracking numbers and inventory counts. Oversee the maintenance and growth of inventory. Identify when supplies are running low and place orders to replenish the hardware and software needed to ensure no interruption of production. Create and place purchase orders with the appropriate vendors and track them, signing off when the supplies arrive and logging the information in Request IT asset management system.  • Regularly collaborate with engineers and project managers regarding user concerns and upgrade requests. Provide suggestions for the implementation of solutions relating to reoccurring production interruptions. Ensure that weekly service level agreements are met by technicians and respond to concerns of customers and clients. Systems Administrator Porter Novelli - Atlanta, GA January 2014 to March 2017 • Evaluate and diagnosed all network interruptions and connectivity disruptions that directly impact client efficiency. Closely monitor corporate and remote office network condition and ensure end user satisfaction. Manage leased and owned hardware assets and ensure budget compliance for company resources.  • Collaborated with technicians, systems engineers and executive level management to conduct in-depth SOX compliance audits, provide scheduled project updates and deliver infrastructure advancement recommendations. Provided specific details of proprietary software concerns from end users to application developers and administrators.  • Responded to all escalated trouble issues that were in violation of the company service level agreement. Updated and documented all modifications of work requests in Avanzer ticketing application and notified technicians of all tested solutions. Regularly verified user preservation and safeguard of all company possessions within each location. Imaging Support Technician Home Depot Corporation - Atlanta, GA April 2012 to December 2013 • Worked directly with the Windows Package Engineering Team to initiate multiple versions of Windows 7 image deployments. Verified full functionality and successful completion of all security packets and application packages. Documented all errors and potential threats that could jeopardize the health and security of company resources.  • Prepared and completed reimaging of Windows XP to Windows 7 laptops using Symantec Ghost and Windows imaging software. Verified restoration of all user information including documented applications, personal data and .pst email files. Confirmed functionality of reinstalled proprietary software applications, outlook configuration and availability of all previous business resources, especially PGP encrypting software.  • Finalized full availability of all required company applications, including Microsoft, Cisco, Symantec and Adobe programs. Ensured satisfaction of each end user by validating full functionality and ability to perform daily duties with optimum performance and minimal technical interruption on Windows 7 system. Systems Support Technician Lend Lease Corporation - Atlanta, GA March 2010 to March 2012 • Monitored and diagnosed all internal and external network connectivity issues for over 7500 users spanning over 30 countries. Effectively researched the point of failure for local office users and vpn connected remote employees. Consulted with users and clients to determine the source of all errors, identify the user's request and recommend optimum solutions. Utilized Remedy 7.5 to document all incoming work requests, troubleshooting procedures and business impact updates. Incorporated and distributed proven solutions to reoccurring issues to remote technicians and colleagues, and regularly contributed to the knowledge base.  • Provided systems administration level telephone support to customers regarding network connectivity issues, access rights inquiries and web-based application assistance. Handled 50+ technical/mission-critical calls daily and consistently met high service standards. Exceeded issue-resolution targets and achieved exemplary customer satisfaction scores, consistently scoring between 95%-100% on all calls (outperforming average of 90%).  • Efficiently, monitored all incoming work requests via the service desk inbox and Remedy direct web submittal option. Accurately, diagnose user issues and offer remote access to Dell Optiplex desktops and E series laptops using Systems Management Server Remote Tools Web Console, RDP and Microsoft Netmeeting. Education Associated Degree of Science in Electronics/ Computer Information Systems in Technology Summary Albany Technical College - Albany, GA May 2000 Skills Customer Support, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Customer Service, Call Center