Manager, Network and Infrastructure Manager, Network and Infrastructure Manager, Network and Infrastructure - LifeCare Management Services Plano, TX Work Experience Manager, Network and Infrastructure LifeCare Management Services April 2019 to Present Manage all network, telecommunications and server infrastructure. Lead and direct technical initiatives to align with business strategy and enable optimal performance. Advise and lead team of engineers and techs on existing and upcoming technologies. Act as top level escalation for challenging issues.  Responsibilities:  ? Participate in IT strategic planning including championing new solutions based on industry standards and business needs  ? Lead security revision and implement new security measures for the business  ? Established and maintained strong vendor relationships  ? Provide and maintain excellent customer service for all facets of the business  ? Provide leadership and mentorship for dynamic IT team of engineers, technicians and application administrators Sr Systems Specialist LifeCare Management Services June 2016 to March 2019 Manage infrastructure, projects, capacity planning, and present new solutions to improve business efficiency. Top level escalation as well as technical support to other operations staff. Assists or leads direction in all projects that require technical configuration.  Responsibilities:  ? Manage and grow existing infrastructure to assist business growth  ? Ensure security and compliance regulations are met, network/infrastructure monitoring and all services are setup with a security focus  ? Plan and deploy hyperconverged VDI infrastructure supporting healthcare staff  ? Ensure optimal network performance, capacity plan, and configured monitoring  ? Consolidate and manage 10+ SQL servers with over 50+ instances and 200+ databases to improve security profile and minimize performance issues  Accomplishments:  ? Configure and deploy VDI environment  ? Manage and deploy new clinical applications for facilities  ? Manage and implement Exchange Hybrid project for Exchange 2010 and Exchange Online IT Systems Administrator Gehan Homes April 2014 to May 2016 Promoted to lead other engineers, manage system functionality and projects and drive completion of integration projects for the business.  Responsibilities:  ? Ensure optimal system function and performance including but not limited to:  ? 7 VMware environments - maintain performance and recovery plans for 3 server and 4 VDI environments  ? Windows Server 2008 R2/2012 R2 - Installation, configuration, troubleshooting and management of 65+ servers  ? Exchange 2010/2013 - Configure new servers, implement recovery plan and troubleshoot mail flow issues  ? SQL Server - Administer SQL Server providing enhancements to performance as well as validating data integrity and backups  ? JD Edwards ERP - Improve business functionality and develop new solutions  ? Network - Ensure optimal network traffic flow, troubleshooting issues and configuring VLAN's  ? DNS - Manage and setup DNS servers, make and document changes  ? AD GPO - Manage groups and all group policies. Train staff on updating and adhering to change management processes  ? DHCP - Configure DHCP servers, expand networks and resize accordingly  ? SCCM - Configure SCCM server for application deployments  ? Assess and recommend solutions to improve business functionality and efficiency  ? Lead team of engineers on project completion and issue resolution  ? Serve as escalation for complex, business impacting issues including after hours on call  ? Oversee and manage all projects involving IT systems  ? Manage vendor relationships  Accomplishments:  ? Full configuration of multiple VMware environments: Server and VDI  ? Exchange 2003 to 2013 migration  ? Improved performance SQL Server database by 40% while also reducing the impact to ERP  ? Led ERP project to convert sales contract to web application JDE Support Engineer Gehan Homes January 2013 to March 2014 Manage front and back end of JD Edwards including SQL Server and administering databases  ? Troubleshoot and resolve issues with the ERP system and database performance  ? Manage multiple VMware virtualized environments including EqualLogic SAN's  ? Team lead for complex issues, escalation and training Education Undergraduate Management Information Systems University of Central Oklahoma - Edmond, OK August 2009 to December 2011 Skills Sql server, Sql server 2012, Sql, Active directory, Exchange, Data Center, Migration, Cisco Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems: Windows Server 2008-2019, Windows 7+  Enterprise Administration: VMware ESXi, Horizon VDI, Exchange 2010/2013, Office365/Exchange Online, Active Directory, McAfee Suite, SQL Server 2012/2014/2016, Project Management, Rapid Recovery, Enterprise Networking