IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Administrator Work Experience IT Systems Administrator SunEnergy1 April 2019 to May 2019 • ? IT systems administrator, designing IT business plans/Infrastructure  • ? Maintain users/add users using Azure/Office3656  • ? Update/maintain Mac/PC's attaching the devices to our domain and asset managing.  • ? Office365 License management  • ? Cisco Meraki monitoring and management  • ? iPhone/iCloud management and provisioning  • ? Create business plans and IT related infrastructure guidelines  • ? Create onboarding and training material  Experience Parcel Ops Sr. Specialist, Supply Chain Omni-Channel Operations Lowes Company Inc October 2018 to April 2019 • Senior Analyst where my core responsibility is to provide executive level reporting utilizing SQL, Teradata, Microstrategy and Excel.  • Gathering and analyzing our parcel networks metrics and displaying this in a user-friendly way for executive leadership.  • Maintain 2 mailboxes where I would manage our online items and their ability to be parcel.  • Decide if an item could be flipped on for parcel depending on the item shipping standards, profitability and hazmat regulations.  • Maintained all stocking requests for our fulfillment locations. IT Analyst Lowes Company Inc July 2017 to October 2018 • Knowledge base management and content creator.  • Airwatch and iDevice Subject Matter Expert.  • Point of contact for mobility for various teams.  • Training and onboarding of new hires.  • Failure trend identifying and escalation monitoring.  • Support our customers entirely on their Surface tablets, Lenovo laptops, and iPhones.  • Queue/ticket monitoring.  • Creating new relationships that help our teams and business move in a more cost effective and proficient direction. IT Contractor, Carolina IT Professionals Lowes Company Inc December 2015 to July 2017 • Provide IT support to the stores using various programs and tools.  • Keep the store operational while resolving the issues at hand in a timely manner.  • Diagnosed and troubleshot problems with individual or multiple computer systems.  • User password resets and user group management.    • POS system/Thin client terminal support, hardware, control file/flat file rebuilds.  • Lexmark printer support.  • Server blade troubleshooting/replacements.  • Vendor support (CompuCom). Lead Sample Receiving tech Prism Labs September 2014 to December 2015 • My responsibilities included: receiving samples, providing preliminary testing on those samples, preparing bottle kits for our clients and hazardous/non-hazardous sample deposal.  • Handled computer hardware and software related issues such as PC hardware diagnosis/replacements and software troubleshooting.  • Chemical housing and inspections.    Pace Analytical, 2/13 - 9/14  • Leading and delegating a team of 6.  • Finalizing and reporting all finished batch logs.  • Microbiology testing, receiving samples, doing preliminary testing on those samples.  • Auto-clave and sample disposal. Education Lake Norman High School 2011 Skills TERADATA, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DHCP, LAN/WAN, System Admin, System Administrator Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/logan-wick2