Systems Administrator / Data Center Technician <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Data Center Technician Systems Administrator / Data Center Technician - Networx Inc Las Vegas, NV Work Experience Systems Administrator / Data Center Technician Networx Inc - Las Vegas, NV January 2017 to Present Assist and train junior technicians on issues requiring ticket escalation; work directly under IT Director  ? Manage Active Directory and Exchange environments for 100+ clients; create and manage user accounts and mailboxes, manage distribution and security groups, maintain company directory  ? Deploy applications, printers, network drives, and security policies via Group Policy  ? Configure and deploy physical and virtual servers (VMware/Hyper-V)  ? Perform weekly server maintenance to verify system health and availability; review system logs and verify  completion of scheduled backups; install latest firmware and driver updates  ? Maintain updated documentation including asset inventory, network configuration, service accounts and passwords, standard operating procedures, and best practices for each client  ? Physically support and provide remote hand services for Fortune 500 clients at Switch and EdgeConneX  datacenters in accordance with security and operational procedures  ? Responsible for installing routers, switches, firewalls, network convergence systems, and power distribution  units; performs visual and physical audits and maintains updated inventories; escort and supervise vendors and engineers to perform work at customer sites  ? Maintain security access and clearance through regular training and background checks  ? Responsible for rotating 24/7 on-call availability including after-hours/twilight work  ? Notable projects include: Sophos Endpoint cloud migration for 300+ machines, MSP transfer and workstation  deployment of 100+ desktops, hosted email migration to Office 365, remote management platform migration from Continuum to Autotask AEM Junior Systems Administrator Networx Inc - Chino, CA March 2015 to March 2017 Dedicated administrator for 13 of 40 clients - assisted with daily IT needs i.e. troubleshoot systems and applications, manage users and security, configure email accounts, perform regular server maintenance  ? Implemented completely automated weekly/monthly patch management system in LabTech RMM system  ? Configured and installed multiple servers with various roles to meet client needs  ? Migrated over 100 users from GoDaddy to Office 365 Help Desk / Network Support Technician I Networx Inc - Rancho Cucamonga, CA January 2013 to March 2015 Responsible for resolving daily level 1 help desk tickets; assisted team in supporting 25+ clients  ? Maintained 12 Dell servers and over 100 desktops through LabTech monitoring platform  ? Verified backup completion and integrity using Shadow Protect and cloud backup software  ? Managed users/permissions in Active Directory and email/distribution groups in Exchange Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Cal Poly Pomona - Pomona, CA Skills Data Center, Datacenter, Hardware, NOC, Ethernet