LINUX SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR LINUX <span class="hl">SYSTEMS</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> LINUX SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR North Brunswick, NJ Results-driven Linux Systems Administrator (LSA) with extensive, 8-year cutting-edge systems administration  experience planning, designing, developing, testing, monitoring, maintaining, and supporting next generation  homogeneous as well as hybrid cloud infrastructures in enterprise IaaS environments. Proficient in an assortment of  open-source technologies, including Puppet, Ansible, Jenkins, Ceph, Apache HTTP Server, Nginx HTTP Server, Linux  and Unix. LSA skills include: Work Experience LINUX SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Vultr - Matawan, NJ June 2016 to May 2019 • Created a highly-scalable, distributed system for running Web applications and Web services by working with architects and developers and ensuring the implementation of RESTful Web services and API design.  • Achieved 99 percent uptime and resolved a history of network failure by directing the implementation and performance tuning of a Windows server environment, rebalancing workloads, correcting server configuration problems and writing scripts to ensure smooth server/reboot functioning.  • Engineered a bash/python script that automatically identified noisy neighbors such as CPU Miners, and automatically suspended their guest machines, slashing automated internal ticket alerts by 30 percent.  • Designed a bash script that automatically interfaced to IDRAC API to speed up Dell Blade Server Fans to prevent CPU's heating to dangerous levels, thus protecting investment, and cutting CPU related replacement costs by 10 percent across 15 locations.  • Assisted in engineering a meticulous way to migrate our distributed software Ceph clusters without any downtime to customer's block storage volumes, as well as Ceph RBD snapshots.  • Integrated keyboard control bindings to our Support Ticket Admin Interface, increasing navigation and help speed up ticket responses by 8 percent.  • Maintained north of 93 percent customer ticket response satisfaction rate for 3 years.  • Developed, operated and managed a network that operated in a secure VPN-enabled environment.  • Advanced knowledge of UNIX operating systems (RedHat Linux, CentOS 7, Debian, Ubuntu).  • Proficiency with hardware configuration, software installation and configuration, system operation and fault discovery/ resolution.  • Experience with systems automation, configuration management, and source control tools, e.g. Puppet, Git  • Administered, provisioned, configured, and monitored web servers, application servers, load-balancers, and build systems, e.g. Tomcat, Apache/Nginx, HAProxy, Jenkins  • Worked extensively in virtualization technology, e.g. KVM, oVirt, VMWare  • Demonstrated ability in monitoring, logging, and alerting with Nagios, Graphite, Icinga  • Experience working under information security certifications e.g. ISO27001, PCI, SOC2  • Patched and maintained Linux and data center systems across the enterprise across 16 locations worldwide  • Disk space and system monitoring, creating users accounts, clean up alerts, replacing drives when required  • Provided L1, L2, L3 Linux systems administration tasks  • Contributed to development and implementation of systems to perform early vulnerability detection and attack surface mitigation  • Script (BASH, Perl, Ruby, Python, etc.) and building required au- tomation (using standard technologies such as Puppet, Chef) and tools  • Develop cloud infrastructure designs and implementations and guiding the process from development to operations  • Software-defined massive-scalable storage architectures on commodity hardware  • Storage management in virtualized environments (KVM/oVirt, Red Hat Virtualization, Openstack)  • Storage management in containerized environments (Docker)Experience and skills troubleshooting and performance tuning hardware and operating systems  • Experience in tuning systems for high throughput and low latency.  • Strong experience in web servers such as Apache, Nginx and Varnish.  • Familiarity with version control systems such as Subversion and Git  • Demonstrated strong experience with CI/CD using automated deployment tools  • Experience with automation frameworks such as Ansible, Puppet or Chef LINUX SYSTEMS ENGINEER Everest Productions - Somerset, NJ September 2010 to May 2015 • Install various software and hardware components or set up alternate operating system as demanded by organizational needs.  • Inspect the functioning of the network and ensure that it performs consistently with the set standards, without any  • interruptions  • Installation of new and maintenance of existing servers.  • Developing and maintaining installation and configuration procedures  • Researching and recommending approaches for system administration tasks.  • Compile and build software with Make, Maven, Grunt  • Perform daily system monitoring, including server back up  • Installation, configuration, and maintenance of Samba Server  • Installation, configuration, and maintenance of CUPS Print Server  • Installation, configuration of LAMP stack (Linux Server, Apache, MYSQL, and PHP)  • Perform regular security monitoring  • Applying patches, and upgrades to the Operating System as needed  • Provided systems administration support for Unix systems including server and workstation upgrades, backup and disaster recovery monitoring, user account setup and security administration  • Performed regular system backups and recovery procedures, closely following SOPs to ensure system security.  • Developed scripts to automate network administration tasks and application deployments Education B.S. in Information Systems Management NEW YORK UNIVERSITY May 2015 Skills Api, Docker, Git, Jenkins, Php, Linux, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, Red Hat, Redhat, Puppet, Ansible, RESTful API, System Admin Links https://ethandur.com