Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - Office 365 Design Washington, DC Work Experience Systems Engineer Zillion Technologies January 2019 to Present More than 8 years of Experience in System Administration/Engineering. Working Knowledge in windows Server 2003/2008, and 2012 R2. Active Directory, DHCP and DNS servers. Office 365 Design, Implementation And migration. Managing Windows OS management, create image and manage HW and SW using SCCM 2012R2 and 2016. Windows 10 migration in a multi Domain infrastructure including AD user migrations, Patch management using SCCM and WSUS. Working experience installing and troubleshooting windows server 2008 and 2012R2, VMware- Vcenter5, ESX, Deploy LUN, Template and Storage. Manage Virtual Servers and workstation. Strong TCP/IP Knowledge, CISCO Professional; completed extensive study on Networking (CCNA). Worked on Cisco Switches and Routers. Installed and updated Cisco IOS. Third party software packaging, Image creation and Managing UIU Database. Scripting with PowerShell 3.0-4.0. Office 365 migration and administration. Mail migration to Office 365 from other Email providers.    Zillion Technologies  Systems Engineer Jan 2019-Present  • Worked on Office 365 Migration form Zimbra mail server to 2016 Office 365.  • Design and implemented Office 365 such us acquiring licenses, setting up tenants, creating ACLs for Admins, setting up rules, setting up security and compliance.  • Completed Active directory and infrastructure readiness assessment and implemented the necessary changes like adding UPN suffix for none routable domains, email suffixes, ADFS upgrade, packaging office application using ODT, packaged the office 365 package to win 10 image and deployed it using MDT.  • Installed and run ID fix utility and Azure AD connect, setup Single Sign on (SSO).  • Prepared Email server (Zimbra) for Migration, created PTS files for mailboxes and used tools like Transend and Bititan for the mailbox migration.  • Identify and coordinated the change to the new tenant for application and devices that were utilizing the old Email server SMTP address.  • Install, configure and maintain applications and servers that are business critical.  • GPO and Active Directory Management and migration. AD migration to 2016, raise forest function level, and manage DNS, DHCP and Active Directory.  • Work on day-to-day operation and management of entire windows infrastructure, supporting both physical and virtual Server in multiple virtualization technologies(VMware and Hyper-V). Systems Engineer Live Nation/Ticketmaster February 2017 to January 2019 • Build, manage and configure SQL Cluster for different Techops and Arc products  • Coordinate with different product owners, vendors to solve issue, create tools and applications that help improve server and application uptime.  • Manage NetScaler Load Balancers and VIPs for the for public facing applications  • Mitigate any security vulnerability for PCI compliance on windows servers. Such us SMB, OpeSSH, SSL, HTTP, etc  • Provide test plans and documentation for various applications and tool prior to rolling out changes to production.  • Maintained a good working relation with different product owner and teams within Ticketmaster.  • Worked on multiple domain wide TLS disablement for security compliance, including mitigate issues found in SQL and older version servers.  • Responsible for server built and configuration for both clustered virtual and physical servers.  • MDT image built and lite touch configuration, Patching with Shavlik. Technical lead/ system Engineer AstraZeneca March 2016 to January 2018 • Worked on integration project for a newly acquired company by AstraZeneca. Integrating the newly acquired company's IT infatuation and employees in to the company's existing infrastructure. These includes migrating AD migration, Applications, workstations and Email accounts  • 6000 win7 to win 10 migrations, including USMT backup and restore, Full win7 backup, user AD account migrations.  • Server as a technical lead for Night and day team, providing end client support, SCCM infrastructure support, Manage TS, Driver library and win 10 images.  • Serve as project lead for remote sites, managed Deployment technicians, communicate with APP remediation, exchange, AD migration teams for a successful migration. Provide daily logs and reports for Lead project manager. Schedule and conduct Q&A and Win10 training classes for migrated users before and after migration. Systems Engineer Social Security Administration March 2016 to February 2017 • Worked on migration Mailboxes from in house Exchange 2010 Server to Office 365. Worked us the POC for office 365 migration.  • Install, configure and administer Windows Server 2012. Install and configure SCCM primary site.  • Configure advanced Windows Server 2012 roles and services.  • Maintain existing Windows Server 2008 R2 Branch Office infrastructure configuration.  • Install and configure the Hyper-V Server role.install configure and maintain Hyper-V machines.  • Deploy and manage a server virtualization environment using Microsoft technologies.  • Coordinate Branch Office server hardware, OS and backup software deployment/refreshment projects.  • System Center product knowledge including Data Protection Manager and Virtual Machine Manager. Organize, submit changer management and deploy Microsoft Monthly patch using SCCM.  • Use Windows PowerShell for administering and automating administration of Windows based servers.  • Proficiency using Windows PowerShell to automate the management and configuration of virtual infrastructure environments.  • Troubleshoot network protocols.  • Formulate conclusions about the state of the virtualization environment using a third party.  • Monitoring and reporting tools.  • Develop methodologies and practices to manage and plan system capacity based on projected growth rate to ensure that system performance remains at acceptable levels.  • Develop and execute high availability, disaster recovery and failover technology as it pertains to physical and virtual server environments.  • Implement backup and restore strategies for virtual machines.  • Knowledge of networking technologies used in a virtual environment.  • Deploy server images and templates.  • Knowledge of Microsoft's Distributed File System (DFS).  • Communicate technical procedures and processes to non-technical users.  • Work with teams, vendors and consultants to determine strategy for complex system changes, upgrades and implementations.  • Participate in problem management reporting, resolution and documentation in Change, Asset and Problem Reporting System (CAPRS).  • Develop server configuration, maintenance and operations documentation. System Administrator XA Systems April 2013 to March 2016 • Provide COT's support for different applications. Mange, maintain and update third party and in-house application. Evaluate and recommend fixes and updates to meet Agency standards and security requirements.  • Account management with Active Directory, Apply local and domain range policies using GPO.  • Scripting with PowerShell to Automate tasks. Automation of AD and DHCP tasks.  • Deploy, manage and upgrade virtual machines in a 100% virtualized datacenter in both VMware and Hyper-V  • Web hosting in IIS6, 7, 7.5 and apache. Troubleshoot and administer web servers.  • Manage over 300 network printers, creating print queues, manage drivers and IP addresses.  • Update Printer Firmware's, security fixes, and Email and LDAP settings. Provide echo friendly print settings in all printers and manage and maintain the print servers.  • Implemented secure printing in different printers using different Authentication methods including but not limited to Government PIV card, Kerberos, Kerberos over SSL and SSL.  • Provide System administration support for DHCP and DNS servers. Manage DHCP and DNS servers.  • Third party (COT's) application Support for DVMax, VBSMAX, SQBIX and AutoCAD.  • Manage, Configure and deploy virtual servers in VMware VCenter 5.  • Monitor Servers, workstations and applications using Hyena, TEM, Orion, and Scomms.  • Work with different Vendors for application and Hardware support. Test, implement and evaluate changes,  • Create change requests for project and write implementation plan.  • Assist IT security providing information and applying changes to the printer features for security vulnerability and performance.  • Write SOP's and working procedures, assisted in creating Active role group and provide documentation and procedures for NIH Events management.  • Provide Blackberry and IPhone Support based on government security standard including Exchange enterprise Email. Enterprise Blackberry and IPhone Encryption.    • content with marketing/ad material; responsible for uploading shows via Company website.  • Managed digital storage, format conversion, and recordkeeping of network content. Education Student of Computer Science Unity University - Addis Ababa, ET October 2004 to July 2007 Skills Active Directory, Powershell, System Administrator, Vmware, SCCM