ERP Administrator ERP <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Admin Jarrell, TX Proven Success in Systems Optimization and Strategic IT Solutions  • Systems administrator with 8+ years of ERP and Infrastructure experience managing server and database operations across multiple platforms (Unix, Linux, Windows). Effectively plan, install, configure and optimize the IT infrastructure to consistently achieve high availability and performance.  • Proven ability to create and deliver solutions tied to business growth, organizational development and systems/network optimization. Skilled problem identifier and troubleshooter comfortable managing systems, applications, projects and teams in a range of IT environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ERP Administrator USA Compression Partners - Austin, TX December 2017 to Present Hired as the ERP Administrator, I am responsible for maintaining ERP application up-time and maintenance. This includes the Accounting software, Warehouse Management Software, and a Custom application that integrates with the other two. This includes testing and rolling out patches on the software, training and assisting end users, coordinating with the Infrastructure Team to identify bottlenecks (network and hardware), streamlining queries and stored procedures in SQL, creating custom reports to assist Accounting, and various other duties.     Accomplishments:  • Created an SQL Job that reduced the time of a daily accounting process from 1 hour to 30 seconds.   • worked with our WMS Vendor to create scripts for employee and warehouse creation, significantly reducing the time to accomplish these tasks.   • re-designed the Terminal Server Farm to meet Industry Standards.  • Helped identify security flaws within our infrastructure, and helped to mitigate them. Systems Analyst II Vintage IT Services - Austin, TX December 2016 to December 2017 Hired as part of the Blue Team, I worked to ensure all systems (Infrastructure and Application) were up and running. This included debugging web servers, troubleshooting Databases (design, management, performance enhancements), maintaining backups through Veeam and Symantec, Network troubleshooting, and general server maintenance. Systems Analyst GTT Communications - Austin, TX February 2016 to October 2016 Hired as part of the Mast 3 Team, I was a direct liaison between GTT and their high end clients. This included Cisco Systems, GoPro, and Dell Tenant (both A hosp and V hosp). I was responsible for maintaining and troubleshooting all network related issues ranging from Packet loss to redesigning MPLS networks to ensure high availability. I also worked extensively with GTT’s phone support group to ensure call quality.  System Admin Super Transport International - Laredo, TX 2013 to 2015 Hired as an IT Specialist, I Provided Windows/Unix/Linux administration, network operating center (NOC) administration, LAN/WAN/VPN administration, intrusion detection and prevention (IDP) monitoring, managed FTP servers, AD/DNS, wireless access points and load balancers. Designed and implemented high availability (HA) and disaster recovery (DR) solutions for clients and employer.    Accomplishments  • Implemented Imaging Server saving $ 14,000.00 on average a year  • Cisco Unified Communication System Installation\Configuration  • Converted multiple Tower Server into Rack environment  • Managed Microsoft SAM Audit - all user\server CALs updated  • Created SSRS reporting Library for company use  • Updated all Logistics Software (4+ yrs outdated)  • Exchange Server 2013 Installation\Configuration  • Firewall Installation\Configuration including VPN Capabilities  • EDI Configuration\Coordination  • SQL Database Maintenance\Development Programming Tutor Laredo Community College - Laredo, TX 2009 to 2012 Hired in 2009 as a tutor for the Computer Science department, I helped teach struggling students with their course work. After excelling in both Database and Programming courses, I was made the programming tutor.    Accomplishments  • Cyber Security Awareness Award  • Tutored both LCC and TAMIU Students  • Substituted in absence of Instructors Education Computer Science Laredo Community College - Laredo, TX January 2008 to May 2012 Skills System Administrator (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Vmware (5 years), SQL (8 years), Network Administration (5 years), ERP (5 years)