Sr Linux Administrator Sr Linux <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr Linux System Administrator New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Linux Administrator Bank Of America - Dallas, TX July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Maintening RHEL servers and Security/kernel patching using BladeLogic Automation.  Jumpstart and redhat Linux EL 5.x based servers using Kickstart in development, test and production environments.  • Maintained maximum uptime and maximum performance capacity for Enterprise Production, QA, UAT/Staging.  • Performed project coordination function for evaluation, installation, monitoring, and maintenance of server software on variety of hardware platforms.  • Installed/ upgraded patches, firmware (OBP), and security (Kernel) patches for all applications in installed infrastructure.  • Worked on Backup tools like Tivoli Storage Manager(TSM).  • Installed and configured servers using Red Hat Linux Kickstart method.  • Installation and configuration of RedHat Linux 5.3 on Dell PowerEdge, HP Proliant and VMware ESX.  • Administered the UNIX System for clustered HP Servers with fiber attached SAN  • Installation of SAMBA utility software for sharing files with Windows hosts  • Managing Disks/Filesystems using Veritas Volume Manager 3.5/4.1 for Solaris and Logical Volume Manager for RedHat Linux.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle RAC 11g on RedHat Linux cluster nodes  • Used various networking tools such as telnet, rlogin, ftp and ping to troubleshoot daily issues.  • Proactive maintenance on systems by timely upgrading Patches to the systems and applications, Scheduling of batch jobs and cron jobs.  • Responsible for user administration and management using SUDO and RBAC  • Built new systems for Production and migrated from Solaris 8 to 9.  • Maintained Volumes and File systems using VxVM / VxFS for Oracle, DB2, MySQL databases.  • Used VxVM to add disk, create new disk groups/volumes, resize, deport and import disk groups between servers.  • Experience with running SQL queries on Oracle and MySQL.  • Performed systems monitoring, upgrades, performance tuning and backup and recovery.  • Implementation of naming services like DNS with Bind 8.4.x and NIS.  • Troubleshooting and fixing the problems related to systems, software and day to day regular maintenance tasks of the system.  • Respond to emergency calls relating to server performance, diagnosis of problems, repairing problems or calling upon appropriate vendors to resolve the issue.  • Responsible for quality reviews and standards.  • Expertise in RedHat Linux backup/restore with tar including disk partitioning and formatting.  • Provided 24x7 on-call / Remote Support for UNIX Production Problems on weekly rotation basis.  • Troubleshooting day-to-day server related issues and problems. Systems Administrator Key Span Energy - Brooklyn, NY May 2007 to March 2010 Responsibilities:  • Performed system administration of UNIX servers by using Operating Systems of Solaris, AIX, Red hat Linux and HP-UX.  • Installed, configured, and maintained WebLogic and Oracle DB Servers on OS Solaris, AIX and Red hat Linux.  • Very good knowledge on Advanced Power Virtualization on IBM System P5, P6.  • Involved in applying Patches, Installing patch bundles on Solaris, HP-UX and Red hat Linux.  • Configuration of Hardware and Software RAID on Digital & Sun Servers  • Working with Engineering Team to build New Linux Servers.  • Administrative tasks such as System Startup/shutdown, Backup strategy, Printing, Documentation, User Management, Security, Network management, dumb terminals and devices carried out.  • Configured VMware and installed several Linux and Windows Operating Systems according to the client needs. Also involved in maintenance and Troubleshooting of VMware  • Maintenance of various versions of Linux Servers (RHEL 4.6,5.3,5.6)  • Supported some Windows and MacOS X support under the direction of other systems administration staff.  • Integrating UNIX file systems using packages like SAMBA. Setting up printers on UNIX / NT machines to work seamlessly across platforms.  • Administering NFS Mounts.  • Responsible for event processing, change management and problem determination in HACMP environment.  • Extensive experience in Installation of Oracle RAC on Solaris 10 and Linux environments, Configuring of nodes, Virtual IP, Private and Public network for Oracle RAC.  • Set up Virtualization that includes Installation and configuration of Virtual I/OServer (VIOS), and Client LPAR, Dlpar Provisioning and Micro partitioning.  • Backing up and restoring files across the network, Performed OS upgrades and Patch loading as and when required.  • Plan, design, Implementing, Installation and configuration Operating System upgrade on Red Hat Linux 4.0 on & HP-Dl585 servers.  • Experience in Developing KORN, BASH, PERL shell scripts to automate cron jobs and system maintenance. Scheduled cron jobs for job automation.  • Worked in configuring and setup connectivity between web servers, database servers and directory servers as a process server administrator.  • Actively participated Disaster Recovery (DR) Tests.  • Planning configuring storage using LVM.  • Logical Volume Management (LVM), Installed Veritas Volume Manager 4.1 and created file systems, mirrored and striped volumes  • Applying software maintenance, program fixes and keeping the system software releases current.  • Involved in postproduction support for solving complex TICKETS.  • Performed IBM Total product Storage Installation on different Operating Systems.  • Supporting various applications on UNIX environment.  • Managing Task plans and uploading into database  • Software Deployments on request basis for production environment.  • Building Task Plans for all S/W deployments and review with Application teams.  • Coordination with off-shore team to implement any changes in production Environment.  • Day-Day application support on production and technical documentation for critical prod issues, On call pager support 24/7 environment.  • Work with Off Shore Team to troubleshoot Development issues on production environment, Attend weekly status calls and discuss about resolved issues and ongoing issues.    Environment: Solaris 8, 9 & 10, RHEL 5.34.4.6, AIX 5.3,6.1, HP-UX 11.11, 11.23, E10K, E25K domain servers, Sun Fire V440 v210, v220, v240, Sun Blade servers, Web sphere 6.1, VCS, VVM, Remedy (Ticket Monitoring Tool), , EMC Storage SAN, Veritas cluster server, Solaris/Veritas volume manager, Ldap, HMC, IBM Tivoli Storage Manager 5.4/5.3, NIM, VMware, RAID, Jumpstart, kick start. Unix Admin and Mainframe MVS/JCL/ ISPEF Administration and Development Port Authority Of New York and New Jersey , Text - center, New Jersey, US July 2005 to March 2007 center, New Jersey July 05- Mar 07  Unix Admin and Mainframe MVS/JCL/ ISPEF Administration and Development    Responsibilities:  • Worked as Unix Administrator in IT infrastructure environment providing server administration, application administration and automation solutions to support business objectives.  • Worked in application Team as a developer using Cobol, PL/1, JCL to maintain and support all Legacy Systems.  • Responsible for Installation, Configuration, Support and Troubleshooting existing systems in Red Hat Enterprise Linux operating environment  • Responsible for the operation, maintenance and integrity of a distributed, networked Liniux based environment.  • Provided 24X7 on call production support.  • Worked with one of the largest VMware and RHES V3 installations in Texas.  • Instituted centrally managed Linux configurations for application deployments, disaster recovery.  • Responsible for customer and advisor facing web services with a volume of 4 million hits per day.  • Successfully tested and documented the alternate disk install procedure to clone O/S  • Upgrade Maintenance level in Solaris and Linux.  • Configured volume groups and logical volumes, extended logical volumes for file system growth needs using Logical Volume Manager (LVM) commands.  • Maintained availability, increased capacity & performance of production machines by upgrading their hardware (disks, CPU, memory, Io board, power cooling unit, mother board etc) & firmware.  • Maintained system security protecting the data on the system by modifying the file and directory permission. Analyzed system performance, Reallocated of kernel resources.  • Performed process automation, scheduling of processes using CRON jobs.  • Scheduling of nightly mainframe batch jobs using CA7 and Executing JCL JOBS  • Installed and configured Oracle 8i in Solaris OS. Worked with DBA team in tuning kernel parameters for database setup and performance.  • Worked in the project of configuring NIS Servers (Master and Slave) and NIS clients and maintained system and custom configuration files in NIS maps.  • Implementation on various RedHat Linux and SAN related requirements of PMR users  • Installed and configured J2EE Application servers on Windows and Solaris environments  • Maintained intranet DNS environment by configuring Primary and Secondary Domain Name Servers and DNS clients.    Environment: Red Hat Linux, SUSE, Sar, Vmstat, weblogic, , jboss, Veritas Foundation Suite, Veritas Cluster, Veritas Net Backup, Jumpstart, kickstart, ESM and HIDS, korn and perlRemedy. Education Bachelor's Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems:  RHEL 3.x,4.x,5.x,6.x ,Sun Solaris 8,9,10,11,HPUX 11i V1,11i V2,11i V3,AIX 5.3,6.1,VMWare ESX 3.5,4.0,4.1,SUSE 9.x,10.x,11.x,Oracle Enterprise Linux 4,5, CentOS 2.x,3.x,4.x,5.x WindowsNT4,Windows98/2000/2003/2008/XP.    Hardware  Dell Poweredge 1950,2950,R210,R310,R410,R510,R710,Blade Center Servers M710,M905,M610,M610X,M710HD,Blade Chassis M100c/Modular Blade Enclosure.HP Proliant DL series,C3000 and C7000 Enclosures,BL280C,BL460C,BL600C,BL20,BL40,Integrity Servers RX3660,RX6660,BL860C i2,BL870C i2,BL860C, IBM X3850,X3950,X3250 Blade Enclosures H,S and Eseries, Blades HS22,HS21,JS43,JS23,JS12,PowerSeries PS510,530,610,710,701,702SUNFIREV210,V240,V440,V880,T2000,T5240,T5220,M3000,M5000,E4800,E6800,10k,20k    Languages Scripting, PERL, C, C++, PHP, JAVA, PL/SQL, HTML, JavaScript, J2EE, JSP, Servlets.  Databases Oracle 10g/9/8, Sybase 11.5.1, POSTGRESSQL, MYSQL, MSACESS,DB2  Networking  TCP/IP, DNS, NFS, NIS, SSH, DHCP, Cisco Routers / Switches(MDS),Nexus 5000 and LAN,Open SSH,Open SSL,SSL,SSH,LDAP,Open LDAP,NIS,NIS+,NFS    Storage Tools EMC Open Migrator,Powerpath, Hitachi Device Manager,Storage Navigator  Tools  Veritas Cluster 3.x, 4.x & 5.x, Redhat Cluster, Sun Cluster 3.2, VMware, VERITAS Netbackup 6.0, VERITAS Storage Foundation Suite, Solaris Volume Manager, Sun Java Studio, sendmail,Puppet,Linux Imaging Software, NAGIOS, NAGVIS, NDOUTLS, Zenoss , MRTG, Egenera's cloud management software, PAN Manager,KVM,Xen Hypervisor    Web Technologies  Lotus Domino 5 / 6 IIS, HIS, ESX 2.5.1, 25.2 & 3.0 beta. iPlanet Webserver 6.0 /Sun one web server 6.3/6.5, Netscape Enterprise Server 4.0, Tomcat 5.x/4.x/3.x & Apache Server 1.x/2.