Software Developer Software Developer Game Developer/ Systems Engineer/ Systems Designer Colorado Springs, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Accelbyte January 2019 to June 2019 Short term contract to build a plugin for Unreal Engine  • Worked both on a team and independently.  • Remote environment.  • Used C++ and several libraries to build a plugin to support a SaaS product.  • Used both C++ and Blueprint to accomplish the goal to ensure that all possible clients could be supported.  • Built video player from scratch based on Dx11 and Windows Media Framework.  • Leveraged existing technologies to create a more comprehensive bug fixing experience. Game Developer/ Systems Engineer/ Systems Designer EarthSoft 2018 to 2018 to 2018    • Served as Lead Developer on PC game titled "Lifeblood".  • Built new API to service future web applications.(Python, Twisted, PostgreSQL).  • Built infinitely expandable chat, matchmaking, and other game related services that scale across the AWS Gamelift Service.  • Utilized C++, Python and C# during the course of development as needed.  • Managed and coordinated several contractors to produce valid and relevant assets for the project.  • Organized and executed on plans for public release iteration and support.  • Communicated with and supported product expansion for AWS product known as GameLift. Systems Engineer/Full Stack Web Developer/IT Administrator EarthSoft 2014 to 2018 • Built port-secured office network from ground up.  • Using Python and Twisted, created a "Tools" API that is only accessible from certain  environments(Security Reasons) that can be expanded by other developers.  • Utilized "Tools API" to create web portal for help desk team using Python and Django.  • Built and Managed company VPN for secure encrypted access to web portal.  • Provided support for EQuiS product, utilizing a knowledge of MS SQL and Oracle.  • Performed Basic IT Administrator duties such as managing the security and operations of several  company dependent infrastructures such as email and Fogbugz.  • Deployed and conducted training for tools such as Git, SourceTree, Perforce.  • Performed penetration testing of new website. Signals Intelligence Analyst United States Army 2011 to 2014 Achieved rank of Specialist E-4 serving overseas in Germany and Afghanistan.  • Cross-trained as Cryptologic Linguist and Tactical SIGINT Operator. Subject Matter Expert on several  pieces of classified equipment.  • Assigned to 10th Special Forces Group (Airborne) - Green Berets. Assignments supported the missions of the US military, the International Security Assistance Force and the US Intelligence  Community, primarily National Security Agency and US Army Intelligence and Security Command.  • Also served as unit Information Security Officer.  • Deployed to Afghanistan serving as Intelligence Analyst and Systems Manager. Tactical Help Desk  Advisor maintaining systems of Forward Operating Base.  • Re-engineered the entire classified network of FOB making it easier to manage and more efficient.  Allowed Tactical SIGINT Operators to hook in and out of network and devices easier and with added  security.  • Wrote a user's guide for network system in case of needed repair. Also wrote a guide to tear down,  move and bring the network back into operation. Served as NCOIC during absence of E-7.  • Increased productivity and lifespan of equipment. Trained civilian staff in signals intelligence.  • Conducted personal internet security and information protection training at the Battalion level.  • Created tool to increase field performance. Utilizing HFIP enabled toughbooks in combat  environments I created a system with python and Django to serve an Intelligence Logging service without need of far more unreliable satcoms. Education AIT in Signals Intelligence Army, SIGINT - Goodfellow AFB, TX 2012 to 2012 High school Pace High School - Pace, FL July 2006 to May 2010 Skills PYTHON (7 years), OPERATIONS (4 years), INFORMATION SECURITY (7 years), Django (4 years), Docker (2 years), HTML 5 (4 years), Javascript (4 years), Physical Security (4 years), Microsoft Office (7 years), Linux (10+ years), Bash (10+ years), PostgresSQL (5 years), SQL (5 years), Oracle (5 years), AWS Products (4 years), Azure (4 years), Penetration Testing (4 years), MySQL, Unreal Engine (5 years) Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Sergeant Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ugbvqldp-obcrnic Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information KEY COMPETENCIES  ? Information Technology ? Information Security ? Information Analysis  ? Personnel Supervision ? Visionary Outlook ? Quality Control  ? Motivation/Training ? Leadership/Team Building ? Organizational  Operations  ? Cryptology ? Problem Resolution ? Relationship Building  ? Known Langauges Include:(HTML, PHP, Javascript, Java, C++, C#, Python,  Ruby)  Select Accomplishments  * Completed underfunded overambitious game development project that the rest of the development  team lost passion for.  * Demonstrated IT abilities in multiple operations segments. Trained and cross trained on a wide variety  of equipment including classified national security related equipment.  * Interacted with co-workers, supervisors and subordinates dynamically while working within a range of  responsible capacities, including overseas deployment.  * Provide inspirational team leadership and counseling to subordinates that increases morale and raises  performance and productivity levels.  * Has several hundred hours of classified Intelligence Gathering and Reporting training.  * Software skills include Microsoft products, C++, C# and Python. Skilled in American Sign Language.  Have built and maintained custom computers and networks for individuals and small business for  several years.  * As an E-3 served in a Staff Sergeant E-6 slot. Accountable for several millions of dollars in government  property and equipment. At the rank of Specialist E-4 served as NCO In Charge, an E-7 slot.  * Currently pursuing Bachelors in Computer Science  * I constantly improve my working environment by developing tools and structures to better support an  efficient and productive workflow.