Information Security Administrator Information Security <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Information Security Administrator - General Nutrition Centers Pittsburgh, PA Cyber Security Professional    Enthusiastic IT Professional with a desire to utilize technology and communications skills provide excellent customer service while continuing to advance my Information Security expertise.    HIGHLIGHTS FOR CONSIDERATION    ? Information Security Administrator with a strong background in Access Control and audit compliance  ? Bachelor's Degree in Information Science, University of Pittsburgh  ? GPA: 3.175  ? CompTIA Security+ Certification  ? Versed in multiple Security programs, technologies and operating systems  ? Excellent written and inter-personal communication skills to help drive results and a positive customer service experience. Work Experience Information Security Administrator General Nutrition Centers - Pittsburgh, PA December 2017 to Present • Creation of all Active Directory accounts for employees both corporate and remote  • Provisioning and de-provisioning of accounts to sensitive applications  • Daily SIEM monitoring for suspicious network traffic and account activity  • Administrator for organization wide phishing and security awareness training campaigns  • Gather information and evidence for audits and ensuring day to day compliance Security representative for various IT projects Carnegie Mellon University - Pittsburgh, PA March 2016 to December 2017 Systems Administrator  • Performed basic administration tasks on a small cluster of Windows servers.  • Set up computers for faculty, staff, and students based on University standards.  • Deployed digital signage throughout the Civil and Environmental Engineering department.  • Performed basic maintenance on department owned hardware. Associate Professional Systems Administrator Computer Sciences Corporation - Pittsburgh, PA July 2014 to March 2016 • Member of server compliance team for Linux and HP-UX servers.  • Performed root password updates, ensured proper access control policies were in place, and ensured that all reporting services and configuration items were properly running on client servers.  • Created documentation detailing compliance processes for use by the client.  • Conducted technical interviews of potential candidates for Linux/Unix positions. IT Staff Intern University of Pittsburgh Medical Center - Altoona, PA May 2013 to August 2013 • Supported the applications team to maintain and edit applications used by hospital employees.  • Assisted the technical support team with troubleshooting complex technical issues for hospital employees.  • Configured and deployed desktops and mobile nursing systems across the hospital.  • Developed asset management tracking systems for computers and peripherals for each floor of the hospital.    Relevant Courses  Implementation of Information Systems  • Focused on Java Object Oriented Programing techniques  • Created a banking interface to work across web, android, and PC application  Database Management Systems  • Fundamentals of SQL coding  • Created a mock University admissions database  Analysis of Information Systems  • Focused on implementation of information systems and analyzing lifecycles  Design of Information Systems  • Follow-up to the Analysis of Information Systems course  • Further study of system lifecycle and implementation, followed by design a mock software to pitch to a panel of judges from outside the University  Introduction to Telecommunications and Networks  • Overview of networking protocols and analysis  • In-depth study of OSI model  Computer Security  • Background of different cyber security threats and prevention techniques  • Final project was creating a dictionary attack program to crack a hashed password  Information Security and Privacy  • Background of security threats  • In depth review of access control and integrity models  • Hands on labs with IDS, firewalls, access control in Windows and Unix Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Sciences University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA April 2014 Skills Css, Dlp, Splunk, Tripwire, Linux Additional Information SKILLS    • Operating Systems: Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Windows (XP, 7,10), and some MacOS X.  • Programming: Java, SQL, HTML, CSS.  • Software: MS Office Suite (Access, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook), VMware, Splunk, Tripwire IP360, Forcepoint DLP, Cisco Meraki.