Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - Golden Nugget Lake Charles Orange, TX Work Experience Systems Engineer Golden Nugget Lake Charles April 2019 to Present ?Tier III for resolution issues for casino helpdesk  ?Troubleshoot network issues on desktop/ laptop computers and deliver end user technical support.  ? Support company and third party software including VPN, antivirus, antispyware, firewall, encryption, and patch management for customers  ? Windows patch management, and desktop updates  ? Configure VMware ESX 6.0 hosts, vCenter, and virtual machines for production, demo and clients.  ?Setup and decommissioning of telephones, printers, peripherals, hardware recovery and recycling  ? Supervise and train technical staff to troubleshoot complex issues  ? Management of security certificates for Veriphones   ? Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the inegrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems, and key processes  ? Troubleshoot Cisco 2900 Routers and 5500 ASA  ? Troubleshoot PBX systems and VOIP phones  ? Update all IOS devices and maintain configuration  ? Weekly data center maintenance and vendor contact  ? Manages system backups Systems Engineer Landry's Inc February 2016 to April 2019 Tier I/II for resolution issues for corporate facility  ? Schedule technicians for cabling/network problems at stores  ? Apply patches and updates on current systems as needed  ? Monitor networks via Solarwinds  ? Workstation creation in the corporate office  ? Create tickets via AT&T express portal for location outages  ? Troubleshoot Cisco 2900 Routers and 5500 ASA  ? Troubleshoot PBX systems and VOIP phones  ? Monitor help desk emails and provide email support  ? Participate in after-hours/on call rotation  ? Manages system backups of assigned region using Evault Software Agent  ? Maintain servers to ensure optimal system performance  ? Remote network access via putty  ? Install and troubleshoot printers (Epson impact/thermal, Toshiba, HP, & Brother)  ? Setup HP/Brother/Ricoh/Canon printers  ? PCI compliance enforcement in regards to client's PC side of procedures and policies.  ? Virus/Malware removal to comply with PCI standards  ? Coordinate support efforts through third party vendors  ? Assist with departmental projects and system rollouts  ? Configured Aloha POS for restaurants  ? Transitioned buyout locations from previous POS to Aloha National Installation Coordinator FEBUARARY June 2015 to 2016 Assess training and organizational development needs within the call center/organization for tier  1 & 2 technicians  ? Troubleshoot and tested Verifone Units  ? Configuration of Dell or cisco firewall for PCI compliance  ? Installation and configuration of CCTV and DVR servers for clients  ? Configuration of POS software for client installs  ? Maintenance of SQL server on the clients server  ? Kitchen video equipment setup for Fast casual and fine dining restaurants  ? Designed and developed curriculum and engaged food corporations for learning development,  leadership development, new technology implementations, and change initiatives.  ? Facilitated instructor led training sessions for clients over POS software and updates  ? Directly involved with the procurement process, plans sourcing of goods and services to support  field operations or project management  ? RMA defective equipment and maintain loaner POS equipment  ? Install, configure, test, maintain, monitor, and troubleshoot end-user workstations and related  hardware and software i.e. ( dell 3310, printers, dedicated servers, routers, switches and printers) LAN Administrator COSCO Shipping CO September 2014 to June 2015 Install, configure, and manage all latest Windows Desktop OS platforms 7/XP  ? Create and manage user accounts in Active Directory (Server 2003 & 2008)    2  ? Liaison for vendors repairs ( AT&T & Copy Serve) for server, printers and server racks  ? Configure Blackberry and Apple handheld devices for VIP Business Analyst, Vice President, & President  ? Created tracking receipts for tickets via COSCO Footprint software (Numara)  ? Resolve technical problems with Local Area network (LAN), Wide Area Network (WAN) and Virtual Private Networks (VPN)  ? Configure Polycom device  ? Use of Cisco devices installing and configuring the capture and board level layout tools  (desktop/supervisor agent), & Historical report generator  ? Provide desktop support locally and remotely for 1000 users worldwide in China, USA and Panama using TeamViewer, VNC, & Dame ware Campus Technologist Houston ISD May 2013 to September 2014 Data Migration, Refresh, & Deployment project summer 2014  ? Windows XP-7 Migration using sysprep  ? Support Microsoft Office Suite 2007 & 2010  ? Support campus technology related grant management and reporting  ? Support, maintain, repair, and install all technology related equipment  ? Escalate issues to HISD helpdesk via the ticket support system  ? Troubleshoot problems with server, network, intranet, internet and e-mail  ? Coordinate with teachers for the staging of labs, programs, and robotics Education Bachelor of Applied Arts & Science in Applied Arts & Science Lamar University December 2015 Masters of Business Administration in Cyber Security University of Texas Tyler - Tyler, TX Skills Windows Platforms (7 years), Customer service (5 years), Antivirus (5 years), Desktop Support (5 years), Voip (5 years), Servers (5 years), Routers (5 years), Firewalls (4 years), TCP/IP (5 years), DNS (5 years), Windows Server (5 years), Vmware (2 years), Active Directory (5 years), System Administrator (6 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/john-mitc