SecurePlan Administrator SecurePlan <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SecurePlan Administrator Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SecurePlan Administrator KNIGHT SECURITY - Austin, TX November 2018 to Present SecurePlan Administrator 11/2018 to Current   Knight Security Systems, LLC – Austin, TX  Prepare invoices, reports, memos, letters, financial statements and other documents, using word processing, spreadsheet, database, or presentation software.  Conduct research, compile data, and prepare papers for consideration and presentation by executives, committees and boards of directors.  Set up and oversee administrative policies and procedures for offices or organizations.  Perform general office duties, such as ordering supplies, maintaining records management database systems, and performing basic bookkeeping work. Regional Security Systems Supervisor Research Blvd January 2013 to November 2018 • Oversee multiple region systems functionality.  • Troubleshoot system issues for all local and remote sites.   • Setup security systems for sites remotely to meet Regional BPS requirements.  • Manage security system start to finish for remote sites.   • Work hand in hand with onsite Technicians and Operations Managers.  • Create site layout to include badge readers, CCTV, and hardware.  • Oversee meetings.  • Cost management.   • Systems troubleshooting.  • Communicate effectively and efficiently between multiple parties to project completion. Quality Technician World Wide Technology - Austin, TX March 2011 to January 2013 Point of Contact between Project Managers, Line Leads, and Shift Supervisors.  • Ensure that the team works collectively and effectively to meet deadlines.  • Develop and maintain weekly production schedules.  • Develop daily meetings with teams and managers.  • Manage issues of projects in production.  • Manage materials, and solution projects including ordering, staging, and providing ongoing status Education High School Diploma John B. Connally High School - Pflugerville, TX August 2006 to March 2010 Skills Access Control (Less than 1 year), CCTV (5 years), printing (Less than 1 year), Receptionist, Excel, Data Entry, Administrative Assistant, Scheduling, Filing Additional Information Skills  ? Leadership/Management skills  ? Ability to troubleshoot problems without assistance.  ? Keep track of multiple projects and pay attention to detail.  ? Troubleshooting system related issues ex: printer not printing, Access Control System issues, and CCTV.  ? Ability to work with and without supervision.  ? Communication skills.  ? Type 60WPM