Contract Cable Installer Contract Cable Installer Contract Cable Installer Fort Worth, TX Education  New Horizons Computer & Learning Center – Fort Worth, TX   Network+, Security+ and CCNA  01/2019 to Present    ITT Technical Institute - Las Vegas, NV   Associates of Science in Network Systems Administration  Completed 2016 Work Experience Contract Cable Installer Fiber Tech Inc - Fort Worth, TX June 2018 to January 2019 Residential Cable Installer  • Routed, ran, and/or pulled wire cable lines, j-hooks and other related structures from outside poles to resident's houses as well as within walls and/or attics if necessary.  • Conducted thorough inspections of each line I ran to meet highly specific conformities as well as prevailing. Integrated cable, phone, and internet network systems and assured each is properly engaged and useful to the customer  • Never needed a manager to re-install of systems and cables I implemented and as a result was promoted to Commercial Cable Installer/Technician within 3 months.  Commercial Cable Installer/Technician  • Install, maintain, and repair cable systems, primarily incorporating television and internet services. Ran and route CAT5 or CAT6 cable from company poles to and within infrastructures and businesses alike. Furnished and renovated internet connectivity based systems into businesses needing brand new connectivity.  • Provided the highest of quality service to all customers and business partners on the job until the company dispended. Started school at New Horizons for Net+, Sec+ and CCNA. Security Officer II MGM - Las Vegas, NV August 2017 to February 2018 • Monitored central computer systems including camera systems, all radio frequencies and all alarm systems including fire, door intrusion and distress alarms tests. Observed all current and past surveillance systems data and information to gather more information needed for police investigation.  • Patrolled campus and ensured safety of infrastructure by prohibiting articles and personnel into restricted areas. Prepared reports on property damage, theft, and unauthorized substances  • Worked 3rd shift overnight while continuing to attend online school in the morning to get my degree. Left due to pursue different career in Fort Worth, TX. Deployment Engineer CDW - Las Vegas, NV March 2017 to July 2017 • Mass-configured computer systems to provide configurations and products with a team of configuration installers that was able to configure over 1000 computer systems a day for schools, companies, and government agencies.  • Implemented specific system requirements of components and programs necessary to complete installation and serve customers with complaints to resolve any issues with provided products IT Network Systems Administrator V & Saxe Theater - Las Vegas, NV March 2016 to March 2017 Cable Installer  • Ran cables to and from the main data frame in the cooperate building for communication between servers and every office; as well as configured switches and routers to run dedicated backbone trunk lines for every device.  • Utilized Active Directory services for new computer and users to access departmental domains with specific security capabilities.  • Installed and programed IP cameras throughout building in order to maintain security  Systems Administrator  • Maintained and configured hardware/software systems to run audio and visual shows.  • Installed all systems such as IP cameras, network printers, point-of-sale systems and managers, Windows 10 computer systems and media servers for shows and directory and mail servers to manage all systems.  • Preformed technical research to develop and innovate infrastructure by implementing best practices in the industry and evaluating business performance. Was involved in staff recruiting and training of new personnel  • Ensured system hardware, operating systems, software systems, and related products Education Associates of Science in Network Systems Administration in Network Systems Administration ITT Technical Institute - Las Vegas, NV 2016 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/clayton-rendon-03573892