Unix/Linux Systems Administrator/InfoLease DBA Unix/Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/InfoLease DBA Unix/Linux Systems Administrator/InfoLease DBA - JDR Solutions • IT professional with 8+ years altogether and 6+ years of experience in the area of Unix, Linux Red Hat installation, storage configuration, Red Hat clustering, resolving technical issues, as well as Virtualization  with installation, configuration, administration, support of Windows Server 2003/2008/2012, RHEL 4.x/5.x/6.x/7.x, SUSE 10.3/11.1 and VMware ESX 4.0, VMware ESXi 4/5,6, and vCenter Server 5.  • Expertise in various VMware features such as VMware HA, VMware DRS, and vMotion.  • Strong understanding of VMware Networking concepts such as creation of Vswitches, different types of port groups, NIC teaming and VLAN Problem management on VMware.  • Proficient in creating documentation (implementation and roll-back) for changes on over 900 servers as per company requirements.  • Strong experience in vNetwork, vSwitches and dvSwitch.  • Extensive experience in HP Blade System C-class Enclosure using Onboard Administrator and  VirtualConnect  • Experience in configuring and administrating NIS, NFS & DNS environment.  • Excellent troubleshooting skills with both hardware and software in Windows and Unix environment.  • Expertise in Creating the Data Centers and configure them to the company environment and policies.  • Expertise in assisting with the administration and upgrading from Windows 2003 to 2012 active directory and domains  • Expertise in creation of Windows 03/08/12, and RHEL servers utilizing templates, custom ISO's.  • Expertise in creating AD 2003, 2008, 2012 accounts, DHCP, file permissions, DNS records administration.  • Extensive experience in setup, configuration, upgrade, maintenance, performance monitoring and troubleshooting on different UNIX platforms such as Linux, Windows system software and hardware.  • Experience in implementing LDAP to authenticate with AD for authentication.  • Experience in RHEL provisioning, upgrades, Patching, configuration and performance tuning in  Linux, and VMware environments.  • Experience in working with ticketing tools such as Remedy, Domino, Service Desk, Jira, and InvGate to perform daily tasks and duties. Work Experience Unix/Linux Systems Administrator/InfoLease DBA JDR Solutions - Indianapolis, IN December 2016 to Present • Creating, Cloning, Patching, Testing of all Unix/Linux servers.  • Migrating InfoLease from AIX server to Linux server for clients.  • Whitelisting IP addresses for all clients through Red Hat iptables.  • Configuring and troubleshooting all Unix/Linux issues with all clients as well as Internal employees.  • Creating/Partitioning disks using Logical Volume Manager (LVM).  • Importing/Exporting/Encrypting/Decrypting GPG Public Keys to connect to servers.  • Creating/Managing User accounts through Red Hat Identity Manager (IdM, LDAP, Kerberos, DNS).  • Creating crontab to automate all Unix/Linux InfoLease 9.x/10.x scripts.  • Creating Scripts to automate nightly processes.  • Backing up/Archiving all InfoLease 9.x/10.x databases.  • Running ACH Listing for various clients every morning to ensure transactions are made on a timely basis.  • Installing VMware Tools on all Unix/Linux servers.  • Very familiar with SOC1 and SOC2 Audits and worked with auditors to ensure correct documents are sent.  • Installing NNT on all Unix/Linux servers  • Creating and storing RSA SSH keys.  • Taking TCP Dumps for network troubleshooting.  • Registering to Red Hat Subscription Management for all Unix/Linux servers.  • Setting up a Wiki for documentation on intranet and updating wiki for latest documentation updates.  • Running Invoices for client during night time after NJS has run.  • Day-to-day user support on InfoLease 9.x and 10.x for all clients.  • Installing and maintaining all InfoLease 9.x/10.x Modules.  • General user support - Password resets, account creating and deleting, network troubleshooting on Unix/Linux and InfoLease 9.x/10.x servers.  • Refreshing databases for all clients.  • Creating document for contract counts for all InfoLease 9.x/10.x clients.  • Installing and Authorizing UniData and InfoLease softwares.  • Deleting Graveyard records in InfoLease 9.x/10.x  • Creating Holiday tables in InfoLease 9.x/10.x for all clients. Unix/Linux System Administrator Navient - Indianapolis, IN August 2014 to January 2016 • Installing and configuring Red Hat Linux 5.x, 6.x, 7.x for EMC's xPression servers to automate generating docs.    • Hadoop Administration of a build out of computing clusters as part of a project to replace a web based infrastructure.  • Installing and configuring Jboss servers as part of an ongoing project for developing and deploying enterprise Java applications, web applications and portals.  • Configured software policies using HPSA, to monitor all Unix Servers with software management, patch management, as well as security management.  • Worked with Redhat Satellite server installation, Redhat Linux kickstart to deploy servers and updating applications.  • Worked with Service Desk for managing tickets for all servers including projects, problems/issues, as well as supporting.  • Part of a one week, 24/7 On-Call support 5 man rotation, supporting all Unix issues throughout the day and night.  • Decommission of Bank servers including uPromise and BankCo old servers and creating new  VM's to replace existing servers.  • Scanning for Vulnerabilities on all Unix Servers after new VM and physical build, resolving if any issues are found.  • Creating/Modifying/deleting user ID's as well as App ID's on all Unix servers, for all teams in the company, as well as all Applications.  • Building Appliance servers working with InfoSec, Storage, and backup teams to configure for the client which is pre-configured by the manufacturer.  • Building Treasury servers for IRS buildout including AIA, Oracle, Titanium, and WSM servers.  • Configuring and maintaining Apache and MySQL clusters. Deploying apache and Weblogic  application servers pertaining to the client's needs.  • Executing LVM (Storage Methodology), Performance monitoring, Error logging, Diagnostics, for all Unix Servers  • Applied security patches on all Unix servers.  • Patching all Unix servers every three months including test servers as well as Production servers, test servers at 7pm on Thursdays and Production servers at 11pm on Saturdays.  • Worked in the datacenter to add and remove hardware in HP servers, as well as wiring the cables. Windows/VMware System Administrator FEDEX - Pittsburgh, PA January 2013 to July 2014 Creation, Installation and administration of Windows virtual machines in VMware environment  • Provision, installation and configuration and support of Windows 2008 Servers, upgrading windows 2003 on both physical and virtual machines.  • Worked on migrations P2P, P2V, and application migrations, performed large scale P2V, migration using VMware converter.  • Installed and managed all Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 Environment running on HP/Dell/Cisco hardware as well as VMware ESXi.  • Worked on Migrating Virtual Machines with VMotion.  • Deploying Virtual Windows Servers using templates, and using HP Server Automation  Management Console (HPSA).  • Configured VMware HA, VMware DRS in acquiring higher efficiency for VMware infrastructure.  • Creating and managing Virtual machines and templates, worked with clones and snapshots of Virtual Machines.  • Installed Veritas NetBackup 6.5 Client and 6.5.2a upgrade on new Windows Servers that are deployed as per company procedure using NetBackup Administration Console.  • Added Servers to CA using DSM Explorer to help identify licenses and assets that are currently in use, and those that are inactive.  • Monitored servers using HP Operations Manager (HPOM) to help detect, solve, and prevent problems from occurring.  • Added new Windows servers to HP OpenView Operations to have servers being monitored by DCO team.  • Worked with PowerShell Scripting to monitor various applications and services within all  Windows Servers  • Preserved Windows server integrity and 99.9% 'uptime' to minimize any negative impact to clients' business System Administrator SAP - Sterling, VA December 2010 to December 2012 • Worked physically setting up over 300 servers for testing, development, and production.  • Set up iLO for all hp Servers, as well as iDRAC for all Dell PowerEdge Servers and IBM.  • Worked with Installing of Solaris, HP-UX, AIX, Red Hat Linux, SUSE Linux operating systems on HP, Dell, and IBM hardware.  • Excellent in Cable Management and setting up all wires to look clean and presentable.  • Troubleshooting Solaris, HP-UX, AIX, Red Hat Linux, SUSE Linux, calling support if needed.  • Provide 1st /2nd/3rd level support for Windows, Linux, running on HP/IBM/DELL hardware.  • Set up VNX storage for all servers including wiring  • Set up Brocade switches  • Worked with Veritas Clusters  • Analyzing system logs and identifying potential issues with servers. Education Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) - Indianapolis, IN Purdue University Calumet - Hammond, IN Skills Linux, Red hat, Vmax, Vnx, Iscsi, Netapp, Nas, Cisco, Vmware, Nagios, Scripting, Visio, Sql, Bash, Cabling, Windows 7, Acrobat, Adobe acrobat, Photoshop, Emc, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, Redhat, Active Directory, System Admin