Senior IT Specialist Senior IT Specialist Network/ Systems Engineer Ada, OK I am an army veteran of 8 years and 2 deployments. My two military occupational specialties were Multichannel Transmission Systems Operator-Maintainer(25Q) and Information Technology Specialist(25B). Although I have the knowledge and skill set to maintain and troubleshoot SATCOM technologies I feel more comfortable routing and switching IP networks. I currently hold CCNA Routing and Switching, Certified Ethical Hacker, Comptia Secuirty+, Comptia Network+, Microsoft Network and Security Fundamentals. I have high level of technical aptitude along with an emphasis for exceptional customer service. My communication skills compliment my ability to publicly speak to fellow team members, stakeholders and large crowds. My military training instilled disciplines such as punctuality, professionalism and accountability.  Contact  Email:  lloyd.t.mckeithen@gmail.com Phone:762-383-3511    www.linkedin.com/in/lloyd-tmckeithen-553816144 (LinkedIn) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior IT Specialist Ponotoc Sands - Stonewall, OK July 2019 to Present • Senior IT Technician for Mining plant operations. Design, install and configure internal and customer facing servers, network devices and firewalls.  • Proactively manage and maintain server, network and firewall systems.  • Administer and support core Microsoft, Cisco, and other 3rd party vendor equipment.Provide after-hours support for Infrastructure related emergencies as well occasional weekend maintenance.   • Maintain inventory and asset configuration documentation. Assist with hardware, firewall, telecom and software vendor evaluation, recommendation and negotiations.  • Cross train team members on existing and new technologies. Carry out special tasks at Management's direction. Interact with customers and staff at the technical level, as required. Systems Engineer CACI April 2019 to June 2019 Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Maryland  • Configured, maintained and assisted in troubleshooting Cisco ASA 5555x to meet customers ever changing needs while securing inbound and outbound communications.  • Proficient in network monitoring tools such as Cisco Prime and Solarwinds  • Skilled in troubleshooting with tools such as Wireshark to point out network environment bottlenecks and routing/switching issues.  • Configured security considerations using Cisco ISE alongside working closely with Systems Administrators to assure that Active Directory communicated properly.  • Daily tasks included using reporting features to present network metrics to fellow teammates and provide recommendations in mitigating possible issues in the future.  • Able to configure, troubleshoot and install multi-vender devices such as Brocade, Cisco and Juniper for cross-vender communications.  • Constructed operating procedure documents to streamline troubleshooting efforts using the OSI model.  • Managed and allocated L3 addressing utilizing DHCP, Statically assigned addresses for unique devices, and assigned block addressing for customers upon request.  • Utilized the Security Technical Implementation Guide to harden network devices such as Cisco switches, routers and firewalls.  • Implemented routing protocols such as OSPF, ISIS and EIGRP  • Conducted security walkthroughs randomly to ensure that users had all networking devices stored securely and all documentation was up to date.  • Implemented site-wide configuration modification for technologies such as 802.1x and MAB. Network Administrator People, Technology and Processes LLC December 2017 to April 2019 Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Maryland  • Configuring/Upgrading and troubleshooting on Cisco c3750x, Cisco 3850,  Cisco 3650, Brocade access switches  • Using SSH to manage and assist users in network resource access  • Implementing 802.1x and MAB (MAC Allocation Bypass), along with using  Sticky-MAC and Static MAC filtering for unique devices  • Assigning users and devices IPv4 addressing using Windows DHCP  • Verifying Network Access Control using RADIUS servers  • Supporting various commands with network resource access in a high demand environment  • Confirming two-way traffic in Cisco ASR9K along with verifying the status of Virtual Routed Interfaces    • Implement trunk configurations and the traversing of VLANs on Cisco Nexus  7000  • Using Cisco Prime as a point of central management for over 700 access switches for backup configuration storage, IOS upgrades and overall health of all devices responding to ICMP, SNMP, and other reporting protocols.  • Supporting several child sites located across the country with transport services off of our backbone with protocols such as GRE and IPSEC tunnels. Systems Account Specialist/ Administrator US Army - Fort Gordon, GA February 2014 to February 2016 -Local Area Network (LAN) connectivity checks and services (Ping, Traceroute, Netstat, Nslookup) to assure exceptional service.    -Provide telephony services (VoIP, Cisco CCM)    -Provide Audio Visual capabilities (VTC)    -Provide Computer Systems support such as re-imaging the machines locally or assisting in the process of handing the equipment to the proper authorities. Information Support Specialist/ Systems Administrator U.S. Army - KW August 2013 to February 2014 Kuwait  -Supported the Installation by bringing systems up to standards based of NAC (Network Access Control) requirements. This consisted of one or more distribution points that are configured to respond to the PXE boot requests, patch management and quality control before and after services are rendered.  Mainly focused on Microsoft/Windows technologies.    -Daily use Microsoft AD (Active Directory) from a Domain administrator prospective. Most of the daily functions included, but are not limited to, password recovery and account-lockouts. Familiar with the organization    structure of the Active Directory environment (OU, groups, permissions, gp_udpate, etc.).    -Assisted in the implementation of the port-based Network Access Control (PNAC) 802.1x site wide.    -Assisted in physical installation of Layer 2 Cisco switches along with working closely with the contractors assigned over the projects. This expanded my skill set to real-world Extensible Authentication Protocols such as "EAP over LAN" or EAPOL.    -Engineered a LAN consisting of Layer 2 Switches, Cat-5e cable runs, and over 200+ users at any given time accessing the resources. The purpose of the LAN was to allow students access to file and print share locally. There was absolutely no access to port 80/ 443 (HTTP, HTTPS). There was a central point of all configuration and system management via VLANs and basic MAC Filtering. We allocated printing resources from USB direct connections to utilizing the print-sharing feature. Our systems were mainly Dell Latitude E6500 running Windows 7. Registry settings were modified after the machines were given the OS if there were any problems during installation. Troubleshooting local machines using tools such as, but not limited to, Hirens Boot CD. Logistics IT Support Specialist/ Administrator U.S. Army - Fort Bliss, TX March 2010 to August 2013 TX  -Installed and maintained the communication link to database accessibility for the Standard Army Maintenance System-Enhanced (SAMS-E). SAMS-E is a United States Army Logistics Information System considered a mission critical system that supports Combat Services Support (CSS) Table of Organization and Equipment (TO&E) unit level maintenance elements, Field and Sustainment maintenance shop production activities, and Maintenance managers from the battalion to wholesale levels. In conjunction with the SAMS-E was the maintenance of connectivity of the Property Book Unit Supply Enhanced (PBUSE) systems.    -Deployed CAISI and CSS VSAT systems. Once the CAISI and CSS VSAT network has been established, clients are connected using an Ethernet cable up to 100 meters away from the CAISI switch. DSL [digital subscriber line] bridges in the CAISI system were available as well but were not in use. Command Post Node Systems Operator/ Administrator U.S. Army - Baghdad, IQ February 2009 to March 2010 Iraq  -Install, configure, integrate, troubleshoot and manage HF, UHF, SATCOM, radio communications Suites and associated cryptographic equipment deployed. Dealt primarily within a TDMA environment with an FDMA backup in place for redundancy (Ka/Ku). The use of spectrum analyzers and iridium phones were used to establish connection with the appropriate satellite.    -Dealt with the WIN-T Increment 1 to establish an at-the-halt network backbone that provides the full range of data, voice and video communications to command posts at the battalion and above echelons, using both line-of-sight (LOS) and beyond-line-of-sight (BLOS) communications nodes. Assisted in the implementation and training of the Colorless Core communications. This type of communication supported multiple security levels and improved bandwidth allocations.    -Cisco proprietary devices were mainly configured to provide communication to over 500+ users in a 24-hour operational environment.    -I supported both unclassified and classified communications with the use of Taclane Micro and Simple Key Loaders (SKL). This consisted of key management and destruction along with the required procedures to establish, maintain and verify communication links.  For network monitoring tools consisting of, but not limited to, Solarwind were used. This tool allowed administrators like myself to monitor individual objects/ devices along with remote equipment via GUI or terminal based.  -Familiar with SSH (22), Telnet (23) and TFTP (69) for the configuration and maintenance of network devices such as routers, switches and firewalls.  Familiar with ANSI/TIA-568 standards, pin-to-pair assignments, for the Cat-5e. Fiber cable was used primarily for the data multiplexing from the mobile terminal to the General Dynamics LAN Mangers equipment stacks.    Multichannel Systems Operator/ Maintainer Multichannel Transmission Systems Operator-Maintainer U.S. Army - Fort Lewis, WA January 2008 to February 2009 WA  -Duties included operating equipment such as the AN/GRC-245(V) is currently being fielded by the US, Canadian, Chilean, Jordanian and British armed forces and has been selected for the UK FALCON and the US WIN-T systems.  I am familiar with the AB-1339/G 15-meter antenna mass along with the AB-1 340/G 30-meter antenna mast.    -Assisted in the operations and communication establishment of the AN/  GYK-55 Create Device Digital Computer Set. This consists of a Ruggedized  Laptop Computer running ForceXXI Battle Command Brigade-and-Below (FBCB2) software, a Universal Serial Bus (USB) cable for connecting a mission data load (MDL) storage device to the laptop, and a computer transit case for storage of the laptop (with its DC power supply) and the USB cable. This piece of equipment is in high demand among both foreign and domestic war fighters. Education New Horizons Computer Learning Center 2017 to 2017 GED in Home Maintenance and Improvement Bamberg Job Corp Center 2005 to 2006 Skills Military (8 years), Public Speaking (5 years), Customer Service (9 years), Network Administration (10+ years), Network Security (8 years), Typing, Cross-Functional Team Leadership (4 years), Problem Resolution (8 years), Communications (7 years), Windows (10+ years), Linux (4 years), Team Building (8 years), Training (6 years), Teaching (3 years), Inventory (8 years), Operations (5 years), Powerpoint (10+ years), Data Analysis (3 years), Active Directory, System Administrator, Cisco, security, VPN, Networking, LAN, firewalls, DNS Military Service Branch: US Army Service Country: United States Rank: SPC(P) January 2008 to February 2016 Multichannel Transmission Systems Operator-Maintainer (25Q):  • Installs, operates, and performs unit level maintenance on multichannel line-of-site and tropospheric scatter communications systems, antennas, and associated equipment.  • Operating multi-channel transmission equipment and diagnostic equipment  • Performing maintenance on associated transmission vehicles  • Trained and operated WIN-T and SMART-T equipment  • Operated SATCOM equipment in combat theater.     Information technology Specialist (25B):  • Use of computer consoles and peripheral equipment  • Computer systems concepts  • Planning, designing, and testing computer systems  • CISCO proprietary routing and switching  • TACLANE and crypto custodian and operator  • Helpdesk support  • Maintenance of networks, hardware and software  • Provide customer and network administration services   • Construct, edit and test computer programs Commendations: • Army Commendation Medal  • Army Achievement Medal (2nd Award)  • Army Good Conduct Medal (2nd Award)  • National Defense Service Medal  • Global War on Terrorism Service Medal  • Iraq Campaign Medal (with Campaign Star)  • Army Service Ribbon  • Overseas Service Ribbon  • Certificate of Achievement Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) January 2019 to January 2022 CEH September 2017 to September 2020 CompTIA Security+ July 2017 to July 2020 CompTIA Network+ July 2017 to July 2020 Microsoft Network Fundamentals June 2017 to Present Microsoft Security Fundamentals June 2017 to Present Assessments Technical Support — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wbd8odr4ng7uv5-w Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fucxctpdbg6ozzxf Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Current Clearance: Secret  Willing and able to work CONUS or OCONUS  Attention to Detail  Professional demeanor  Technical Craftsman