Data Scientist/Analytics Consultant Data Scientist/Analytics Consultant Data Scientist with Machine Learning experience Springfield, IL Currently a junior data scientist with a strong background in applied statistics, data modeling, SQL and data visualization. Experienced in machine learning, engineering, parallel programming and DevOps, with a wide range of tools, including Python, D3.js, Hadoop, and Cloud Computing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Scientist/Analytics Consultant Wells Fargo - Springfield, IL December 2018 to Present • Design SQL, R & Python scripts to directly query and analyze internal and external data sources to package together clear, actionable findings  • Aid in the development of predictive modeling and machine learning solutions that continually improve with the collection of real-time dealer and sales results from product portfolio, using popular R/Python libraries, including TensorFlow, H2O, Scikit-Learn, Keras, GLM, and NNet  • Test model fit using cross-validation and bootstrapping methods, hypothesis testing, and measuring error and confidence  • Develop in an Scrum environment with team members, actively using sprints to deliver solutions quickly and continuously exploring ways to improve our results  • Model data using pandas/R dataframes, PowerPivot, Tera data, and Power BI.   • Work closely with colleagues in Product, Operations, and Sales to structure problems and understand the impact across various departments within the company   • Respond to project requests using JIRA, and follow the project through the entire SDLC cycle by creating/updating solutions/engagements  • Maintain codebase and documents using Subversion and Confluence Deep Learning Research Intern Digibiosys - San Francisco Bay Area, CA December 2018 to April 2019 • Provided Data Visualizations for heart rate monitor readings using Django, Angular and D3.js  • Implemented rudimental nonparametric modeling to obtain predictions  • Tuned ANN parameters to fit models to lower RSS   • Statistical signal processing including FFT and MLE  • Configured data visualizations to read from AWS Elastic Beanstalk for real-time data feed Junior Software Engineer MSFW - Springfield, IL April 2018 to December 2018 • Assisting in the development, implementation and management of technology-based business solutions to improve our clients’ delivery approach.  • Coding, testing and implementing configuration changes and assisting in the design of software applications to meet both functional and technical requirements using C# and the .Net Framework  • Full stack development using HTML5, CSS3, and multiple Javascript libraries including Angular, Bootstrap & jQuery  • Implementing analyses that will identify requirements related to people, processes & technology.  • Maintain and analyze client databases using MS/Azure SQL Server, and repositories using git Data Analyst DCC Marketing - Decatur, IL April 2017 to April 2018 • Updated and redesigned user experience for DMH company website.?  • Worked closely with social media team on WordPress blogs and social media marketing.  • Used site analytics and metrics to define and monitor success, using complex SQL queries and stored procedures  • Built user interface, data visualizations and designed overall user experience for Town Country Bank  • Designed optimized and usable interfaces for financial applications. Project Management Intern Project Management Intern - Decatur, IL March 2017 to April 2018 • Led 4 person team, developing cost effective supply chain for 785C model parts not routinely kept in stock.  • Developed a MySQL database application to store tool parts and suppliers. Database Developer/ Systems Administrator, Intern Southside Country Club - Decatur, IL - Decatur, IL August 2016 to October 2016 • Set up a server using Red Hat Linux.  • Configured Microsoft SQL Server on the server, built and managed a database for use in the Jonas Club Management Software system that runs all the workstations. Education Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering Northwestern University - Chicago, IL May 2019 to Present Master's in Business Administration, Data Management Millikin University - Decatur, IL August 2016 to January 2018 Bachelor's in Computer Science Monmouth College - Monmouth, IL May 2016 Skills C++ (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), Python (5 years), Data Visualization (4 years), SQL (5 years), Data Analysis (3 years), Machine Learning (2 years), Deep Learning (1 year), Applied Statistics (2 years), Data Mining (2 years), Software Engineering (2 years), R (2 years), Big Data, Data Science, Business Intelligence, SAP, Excel, HTML, C# (2 years), .NET (2 years), TensorFlow (1 year), Neural Networks (Less than 1 year), Keras (Less than 1 year), Torch (Less than 1 year), PySpark (Less than 1 year) Links http://github.com/erikedmonds http://erikedmonds.github.io/election Certifications/Licenses Data Science Immersive Bootcamp July 2018 to Present Springboard’s Data Science program Assessments Data Analysis — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4v2gy8hm75w1579r Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rv-teu566d7d7nfs Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Publications Hospital Data Mining With R 2017-05 - Collected, munged and normalized hospital data from HealthData.gov to manipulate in a MySQL database. Built a database application with Python to be analyzed with R. Built a BI dashboard in R using flexdashboard and Shiny. Ride-Sharing Database Application 2017-05 - Built a ride-sharing web application for Millikin students, using Python and Django, run on an Apache 2.4 web server hosted at Millikin. Built the front-end using AngularJS.