Systems storage Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> storage Engineer I am motivated Information Technology professional looking for a new challenge. Uxbridge, MA I have experience in both lab and production environmens. I have performed setup and configuration, troubleshooting and hardware replacement along with decommission of various data storage platforms, OS both windows and linux systems, and various virtual architectures. I also have experience in network as it pertains to data center systems communication ( SAN, NAS and SAN Over Ethernet). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems storage Engineer Verizon June 2019 to Present monitor and maintain the daily health of EMC ECS And Netapp storage platforms. Data Center Engineer Shutterstock - Somerville, MA June 2018 to October 2018 • Supervised personnel for the decommissioning of local data center.   • Migrated data on various EMC equipment to the new data centers.   • Set up and supervised the shipping of 500 servers and switches.  • Worked closely with network personnel in the shutdown of and failover of SAN,NAS,LAN and WAN networks. Systems Engineer II Dell EMC Data Domain Group - Durham, NC 2016 to 2017 * Performed setup, configuration and troubleshooting issues for EMC Storage platforms VNX, Avamar, Data Domain, and RecoverPoint in four data centers  * Initial configuration, administration and troubleshooting of VMware 5.0-6.0 from esxi host to Vcenter and Vsphere.  * Set up and configured individually systems on Brocade routers and switches for NAS, SAN and Network connectivity  * Utilized Proteus for IP, DNS and DHCP control and ServiceNow for asset control and service requests Systems Engineer Dell EMC - Hopkinton, MA October 2014 to February 2015 As a contact employee I performed system updates on symmetric, along with other duties that may have come up. I finished this project in February of 2014. IT Manager Inner-Tite Corporation - Holden, MA 2014 to 2015 * System matter and knowledge base expert  * Advised and recommended best practices in compliance to ITIL v3 standards  * Architected and budgeted for fiscal year 2015 a complete system to include upgrading of entire infrastructure: Disaster Recovery Plan, Network Security, and Database upgrade, Windows Enterprise Operating System Compatibility to Mail Server and workstation upgrades  * Support and troubleshooting of systems, applications, network, mail server, print servers, and individual workstations for over 100 employees  * System Administrator of Syteline ERP6 and Progress manufacturing software databases  * Mail server, all applications including Linux backup and recovery program, CentOS postfix mail server, and Microsoft Windows Active Directory Technical Systems Engineer Dell EMC 2013 to 2014 * Supported critical operations of a Tier III data center hosting approximately 350 applications and six petabytes (6 PB) of data  * Monitored private cloud to support the company's global footprint of more than 50,000 users across 400 corporate offices in more than 80 countries. Federated its cloud across the globe on four continents spanning five data centers  * Upgraded Symmetric equipment to new V3 operating system and provided troubleshooting support for any debugging and hardware incompatibility.  * Installed and configured and administration of Vmware versions 5.0 ESXi, Vcenter and Vsphere.  * Installed and configured Windows Enterprise operating System 2003, 2008, 2012, and Enterprise Linux Red Hat, Cent OS, Oracle Enterprise and Enterprise SUSE  * Set up and configured Cisco and Brocade routers and switches System Administrator Dell EMC 2011 to 2013 * Hosted computing and storage for corporate clients, including Colt, GM, Caterpillar, AT&T, Verizon, Charter and Cox Cable  * Responsible for replacing previous ticketing system with ServiceNow, a web-based system; tailored the program to the needs of the SMS Group  * Created Workflows, UI Policies and Actions, Service Catalog Items and Access Control Rules, Business Rules, Client Scripting, Order Guides and Assignment Rules.  * Worked with Citrix on a daily basis to administer accounts at three different data center.  * Installed, configured, and administered Vmware versions 4.0 through 4.8. ESXi, Vcenter, Vsphere, High Availability systems.  * Set up accounts and monitored troubleshooting for users and companies in ServiceNow  * Installed and configured computing infrastructure and deployment of new servers, equipment and software as required in production environment System Administrator Engineer Cloud Tech OPS Dell EMC 2009 to 2011 * Responsible for Datacenter Operations for EMC Cloud (Atmos), Mozy, Verizon and AT&T data centers  * Set up lab space for testing and build-out of production data centers  * Worked with an array of EMC hardware and software systems including RecoverPoint, Avamar, Celerra, Clariion, and Data Domain  * Set up and configured EMC Atmos Cloud Optimized Storage Software App.  * Built EMC Cloud POC for eBay Cloud Infrastructure  * Worked with Verari Systems Blade Technology, Blade servers and Blade Storage  * Interfaced with server and storage vendors to integrate equipment into associated systems  * Responsible for disaster recovery planning and testing, including backup and restore, remote software installations, and upgrades System Administrator POC Group Dell EMC 2007 to 2008 * Responsible for installation and preventive/remedial maintenance of servers, software, network, storage and SAN equipment located in LAB environment  * Installed and configured EMC Storage Platforms  * Installed, configured, and administered Vmware versions 3.0 through 4.0 ESX.  * Configured VMware, HP-UX 11i V2 servers, IBM AIX 5.3 servers P5 model, Red Hat enterprise 64bit on Dell Servers, Oracle Linux on server and Microsoft Enterprise Server 2003 and Server 2008  * Tested and evaluated Blade server technology Education High school Links http://linkedin.com/in/scott Military Service Branch: US. MARINE CORPS Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant ( E-5 ) April 1980 to March 1989 1. MOS 6076 Aviation GSE Technician - Specializing in Hydraulic Systems and Gas Turbine Compressors.  2. Taught a total of 48 classes with a total of 30 students each.   3. Wrote the new training syllabus for the 3 week hydraulic systems course. Commendations: 1. 2 Good Conduct Medal   2. 1 Unit Citation Medal   3. 3 Meritorious Promotions  4. 4 Letters of Meritorious Citations