Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack Web Developer IT professional dedicated to make our lives easier through technology. Miami, FL Team building, efficient management, fast troubleshooting and excellent relationship with  customers, native Spanish speaker. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Electronic Retail Data INC - Miami, FL May 2019 to Present • Hands-on experience using Ruby on rails, React.Js, CSS & Bootstrap for developing a sales and inventory applications for the retailers industry.  • Organized the debugging of the application in a Trello board for follow up.   • Reviewed code to validate structures, assess security and verify browser, device and operating system compatibility.  • Developed a testing environment connecting the inventory app to Solu-m API and GS1 API. IT Administrator Electronic Retail Data INC - Miami, FL February 2017 to Present • Installation and maintenance of electronic shelf label systems for the retailer industry.  • Helpdesk support role for our clients, specifically POS devices, printers, hardware and inventory software. I.T Administrator CLOVER SYSTEMS - Miami, FL May 2014 to February 2017 • Successfully implemented various infrastructure software solutions such as: VOIP Cisco Call Manager System, Antivirus (Symantec Endpoint Protection) and Anti-spam (Barracuda Cloud).  • Supported and administered network and systems infrastructure, including virtual environment, Active Directory, DHCP, DNS and Exchange Server 2010.  • Helpdesk support to approximately 250 users.  • Worked with the Projects Manager to resolve current inventory problems.  • Supervised 2 IT support analysts in providing excellent customer service to callers requiring assistance for hardware and software issues. Co-Owner and IT Manager AJ Seguridad - Valencia, Carabobo January 2012 to April 2014 • Negotiated contracts with car-assembly, pharmacies and construction companies, resulting in profits of approximately $50,000.00 USD per contract.  • Installed and supervised several smart access control systems and CCTV projects in office and home buildings.  • Installed several small and medium intranet networks, including wiring, switch configuration and network documentation. Jr. Designer Wibox.com - Valencia, Carabobo January 2011 to December 2011 • Optimized the media marketing strategy by programming tweets, feeds, Facebook posts with HTML templates.  • Monitored social media and online sources for IT industry trends. Systems Analyst Intern Alimentos polar comercial - Valencia, Carabobo October 2010 to December 2010 • Developed internal web application to manage helpdesk requests from approximately 350 users using SQL, PHP and HTML.  • Assisted customers in identifying issues and explained solutions to restore service and functionality.  • Responded to support requests from approximately 350 end users and patiently walked individuals through basic troubleshooting tasks. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Universidad Jose Antonio Paez - Valencia, Carabobo February 2008 to January 2011 Skills Api, C++, Exchange, Html, Javascript, Php, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Sql, Cisco, Dns, Dhcp, Vmware, Css, Intranet, Hyper-v, Voip, Access control, React Links http://www.jamespharr.com Certifications/Licenses Full Stack Web Developer June 2019 to Present • Trained in programming languages (JavaScript, Ruby, HTML/CSS), web frameworks and libraries(Ruby on Rails, Bootstrap, MVC, React), version control and database management (SQL, PostgreSQL, Git), as well as project management and development (GitHub, Agile Methodologies)  • Completed 350+ hours of staffed learning and 8,000+ lines of code. 10985 Introduction to SQL Databases (OLL) April 2019 to Present