Project Implementation Specialist Project Implementation Specialist Project Implementation Specialist - Agilysys Las Vegas, NV Highly qualified Information Technology professional with extensive  experience in IT Administration.  and systems management. Over 6 years of experience providing  solutions for mission critical network.  systems. Successful history of leading network infrastructure  deployments and enhancements. Detail-  oriented with a solid track record of delivering infrastructure  enhancements, software and hardware  solutions. Work Experience Project Implementation Specialist Agilysys - Las Vegas, NV December 2018 to Present Area  InfoGenesis Hardware and Software deployment for POS terminals, tablets, network printers, and P2PE credit card devices.  End user training for all types of system users - front of house end-users, back  office F&B management, IT administrators, and financial auditors.  Integration to credit card, property management, player tracking, inventory  control, customer loyalty, and numerous other systems.  Consulting with IT for integrating InfoGenesis POS into a properties PCI  environment, including separate VLANs, firewall configuration, and Group  Policy controls.  Consulting with F&B/Retail management on their system needs and managing  their system configuration  Managing other resources on site, whether mentoring/training new hires or managing large teams are large deployments.  Software installation and upgrade for InfoGenesis POS PA-DSS certified  application.  Project documentation on installation processes, end-user training, interface  troubleshooting or system configuration.  POS deployment in various Hotels, Resorts, Casinos, Retail and Cruise Ship  industries. Netsuite Administrator Akmitllc - Miami, FL October 2016 to October 2018 Fort Lauderdale Area  Providing technical support to small businesses.  Provide internal, ongoing system/technical support to NetSuite users, including  training  Support end user requests for new saved searches, reports, KPIs, and dashboards  Monitor & administer account management, roles and access, profile creation, security administration, etc.  Configure sales dashboards and optimize other front-end tools and customer- facing documents  Develop, test, and deploy customizations, custom objects, third party tools / applications and new NetSuite functionality based on evolving business needs  Utilize technical knowledge and business acumen to develop scripts, workflows, and reports  Design, implement, and maintain configurations and customizations within NetSuite  Microsoft Application Support (office, 365, SharePoint, exchange and more)  Hardware support including setting up: printers, scanner, net storage, hand  devices, projector, CCTV, A|V Support and other technical issues.  Creating and configuring small domain network: including dns, dhcp, AD, Networking, and data storage and much more.  Managing small IT Team.  Support Application: QuickBooks, Fidelio, NetSuite, Square, Websites and other application. Fleet Casino System Engineer Royal Caribbean Cruises, Ltd - Miramar, FL March 2015 to October 2016 Provide system support to the entire casinos across the fleet on 33 ships.  Build new Ships and deploy Casino Systems: Oasis, Galaxis, Bravo, Pem and System2go.  Supports casino/IT shipboard users to keep workstations in working condition, including PC workstations, window tablets, Google Tablets, Slot machines,  servers and related hardware user requests must be responded to promptly  24 /7 hours per day.  Responsible for installing CCTV *Night Vision.  Oracle Network Support Engineer On Call - Baltimore, MD November 2014 to April 2015 Area  Planning, upgrading Opera, Netsuite and Oracle database.  Building and Preparing servers for Opera Property management system and Oracle database.  Building Server 2003, 2008, 2012 and window professional.  Troubleshooting Network and hardware issue. Assistant Systems Manager Norwegian Cruise Line December 2012 to September 2014 1 year 10 months)  Provide system administration of business critical program and applications  using cutting edge technology and ensure high level of reliability and stability along integrated systems.  Supports all shipboard users to keep workstations in working condition,  including PC workstations, Point Of Sale terminals, cabling systems, servers, vings and related hardware  User requests must be responded to promptly 24 hours per day, 7 days per  week.  Identify equipment, software, and operating system requirements. Build and configure servers, mail systems, backup and recovery plans, and network  security systems. Create and administer policies and permissions. Develop  technical and user procedural documentation. Analyze and resolve issues with connectivity, hardware, software, and operating systems.  Technology Utilized:  ? *Finished Window 7 deployment on, 2 Norwegian ships (Jade & Pearl)  ? *VMware ESXi, Sphere 5, cluster load balancing / 60 - 70 servers and interfaces: Exchange server 2010 enterprise, system center configuration  manager 2007 r2, Fidelio CL .08, Micros, File server DFS, Napa system and etc  ? *Storage- HP P2000 G3 Array Systems, netbackup 7.1 and backup exec Systems Administrator Mount Laurel, NJ December 2010 to December 2012 Provided systems administration support for Training Center  Windows systems and responsible for keeping the VM environment healthy, updates server and workstation upgrades, disaster recovery monitoring, user  account setup and security administration.  Performed regular system backups and recovery procedures, closely following  SOPs to ensure system security.  Helped resolve virus outbreak as member of a team that quickly isolated and removed virus that had infiltrated systems.  Monitored night-batch job process, documented errors, performed nightly  troubleshot issues.  Training Center Department Setup: When two banks merged, 5/60 Training  room computer  Technology Utilized:  VMware technology, Window server 2003, Teller system Encore and 24/7  support on remote assistant and provide weekly server maintenance Series Wireless LAN Controller Cisco 2012 to 2012 375 AP across 15 decks on the Ship and ~20 Vlan and MTN Satellite Network  system  ? 4 Domain Controllers: 2V and 2P windows server 2008 r2  TDB Education Diploma in Information Technology Highland High School 2013 to 2013 Computer Systems Technology Camden County College 2005 to 2009 Skills SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION, CUSTOMER SERVICE, Project Management, ADP Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ali-khan-19587898?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3B2boNawiUQ5i4njfqvERKKQ%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile