Sheet Metal Fabricator Sheet Metal Fabricator Fargo, ND Computer Technician with background in scripting, home/office network  troubleshooting, infrastructure development, and general troubleshooting. Seeking challenging position with opportunities for expanding skill base. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sheet Metal Fabricator S.A. Mechanical - Fargo, ND February 2019 to Present General Laborer (Seasonal) People Ready - Fargo, ND November 2018 to January 2019 Provided general labor for various construction sites, warehouse operations,packaging plants, and snow removal for the FM area. General Laborer (Seasonal) Express Employment Agency - Fargo, ND September 2018 to October 2018 Provided general labor for various construction sites, warehouse operations,packaging plants, and snow removal for the FM area. Sheet Metal Fabrictor Northern Plains Mechanical - Fargo, ND August 2018 to September 2018 Fabricated HVAC fittings and assembled duct work for installation.   Maintained shop environment and any power tools that needed repairs. Systems Administrator Section 9 Cyber Cafe - Fargo, ND May 2017 to September 2017 Systems Admin & PC/Mac Technician  Section 9 Cyber Cafe - Fargo, ND (701) 476-1337    Analysed performance of; and diagnosed/treated issues with in-house gaming PC's and customers' devices. Facilitated communication with management when changes were being made to: network configurations, platform UI, client database, hardware, as well as arranged for maintenance on cafe gaming computers. Configured and hosted Linux based gaming server on local network. Performed autonomous repairs and updates to cafe computers over the network via cmd, powershell, and other windows command-line operations. Resident Manager Fercho Construction and Property Management - Fargo, ND June 2014 to March 2017 Resident Manager of a 24 plex. Varied duties including maintenance of building and grounds. Documentation and management of tenants. Adherence to company policy and procedures. Substantial tact and diplomacy with tenants and office personnel. Education Associate of Science in Information Technology Minnesota Community & Technical College - Moorhead, MN 2014 to 2016 Additional Information • Agile Software Development  • Networked applications  • Strong communication skills  • Working independently  • E-Learning application development  • Object-oriented design  • Working with large data sets  • System administration  • Cloud computing  • Linux  • HTML  • SQL database systems  • Portable Media Device Troubleshooting  • DAEMON Tools  • Remote Desktop Applications  • QBasic / Vbasic  • Software Updates and Driver Installations  • Windows Installations  • Building Computers  • Printer, Camera, Scanner Troubleshooting  • Anti-Virus/Malware removal and operating systems maintenance  • DHCP, FTP, LAN Networking  • Routers, Switches, Hubs  • Diagnosing PC, peripheral, and many multimedia devices  • OpenOffice.org  • Office365  • Windows Server 2012 R2  • Microsoft Windows 95/NT/9x/XP/Vista/7/8 and Windows 10 support  • x86/64bit applications