Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - DAI Work Experience Systems Administrator DAI - Bethesda, MD March 2015 to Present • Assembly of HP Proliant servers.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Windows servers (2008R2, 2012R2, 2016) with Hyper V, network equipment (firewalls, switches, wireless access points).   • Configuration of network services (ADDS, Group Policy, DHCP, DNS, file sharing, printing).  • Configuration of VPN tunnels between remote office locations (Sonic Wall and Meraki)..  • Administration of Endpoint Security (Kaspersky ES10, Sophos Central) and Full Disk Encryption platforms (Kaspersky FDE, WinMagic SecureDoc).  • Management of Endpoint Configuration Software (SCCM, Desktop Central).  • Management of patch testing / approval / distribution for client and server OS for more than 5000 machines Senior PC Support Specialist DAI - Bethesda, MD November 2011 to March 2015 • Triage and assignment of new support incidents and change requests.  • Identified and resolved hardware, software, and networking issues on Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 10 and Macintosh OS X platforms.  • Provided end user support for business applications including MS Office 365 and IBM Notes messaging and collaboration platform.  • Designed, implemented, and maintained a Microsoft Windows deployment solution for imaging multiple hardware platforms with custom built Windows 7 and 10 images and business applications, utilizing Windows Deployment Services, Microsoft Deployment Toolkit, Windows Automated Installation Kit, and VMWare. Upkeep of Enterprise Golden Image Technical Operations Engineer, Tier I mindSHIFT Technologies - Sterling, VA November 2009 to November 2011 • MSP support for small and medium sized businesses, troubleshooting and resolution of hardware, software, and network infrastructure issues for a customer base of tens of thousands of users.  • Provided configuration and support for Windows XP, Windows 7,  and Mac OS X.  • Developed training materials for mindSHIFT’s web based, hosted Microsoft Exchange management system (SaaS product). Education Bachelor of Arts in English Louisiana State University May 2006 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, SCCM, Network Administration (4 years), Operating System Deployment (8 years), Windows (10+ years), Patch Management (3 years), Endpoint Security (4 years), Full Disk Encryption (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Network+ February 2019 to February 2022 A+ October 2009 to Present