Computer Engineer Computer Engineer Computer Engineer Westlake, LA Work Experience Computer Engineer CSUSA - Lake Charles, LA January 2018 to Present Developing New software, Managing IT inventory, responding to help desk tickets, updating server , Active Directory management , HTML, C, PHP, Javascript, Angular, JSON Website Designed Software Engineer Pronto DC - Washington, DC 2017 to 2018 Developing web applications for law firms and Smalls businesses,including Ecomerce, Wordpress , Social Media, and custom Application Design . Senior Systems Administrator SP Networking - Lake Charles, LA 2014 to 2017 installing and configuring computer networks and systems  identifying and solving any problems that arise with computer networks and systems  consulting with clients to specify system requirements and design solutions  budgeting for equipment and assembly costs  assembling new systems  maintaining existing software and hardware and upgrading any that have become obsolete  monitoring computer networks and systems to identify how performance can be improved  providing network administration and support Computer Engineer Work Study McNeese State University - Lake Charles, LA 2011 to 2014 Assist the professor in designing class projects.  Test and re-test class project applications to ensure they work properly.  Assisting Identify and isolate defects.  Tutoring classmates on how to design and develop the software systems that control computers in areas that they have they have trouble understanding.  Integrating components into the final design.  Evaluate the effectiveness of the design and change if necessary.  Use computers extensively to produce and analyze designs.  Tutor classmate during development phase.  Build, test and modify product prototypes.  Analyze information and recommend appropriate hardware to users. Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering McNeese State University - Lake Charles, LA June 2010 to July 2014 Skills SQL (7 years), FIBER OPTICS (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), PHP (7 years), Network Administration (7 years), Programming (7 years), Computer Hardware (7 years), Computer Repair (7 years), Cisco (7 years), Active Directory, Service Desk (7 years), Windows 7 (7 years), HTML, Vmware, VoIP, Strategic Planning, Android (7 years), Application Development (8 years), HTML 5, MYSQL, CSS Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ddjanwf4gihtkf7s Verbal Communication — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/easx9sqnihxa0b7f Basic Computer Skills — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ons3gj5kegsv63g Food Safety — Proficient January 2019 Knowledge of proper food handling, storage, and equipment use for preventing the spread of foodborne illness. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ufsffrqxvfvjzatr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  Developing online software for companies using SQL, php, html5, javascript and css.  Building large networks from scratch, administrating and configuring current networks  Computer Software and Hardware Repair, Upgrades, Updates and Virus removal.  Providing IT technical support for teachers, students and customers  Wiring above and underground using cat5, cat6 and fiber optics.  Documenting and tracking all