Fund Accountant (Debt/Equity) Fund Accountant (Debt/Equity) Fund Accountant (Debt/Equity) - PCCP, LLC Charlotte, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Fund Accountant (Debt/Equity) PCCP, LLC - Los Angeles, CA April 2016 to Present Prepare Fund monthly and quarterly investor distributions and capital calls.  ? Daily reconciliation of cash accounts in addition to performing monthly bank reconciliations for 15 funds.  ? Ensure accurate and timely recording of journal entries.  ? Performing month end close processes and quarterly financial statement preparation.  ? Accurate calculation of quarter end, final and estimated fund net assets values, interest accruals, management fees and incentive fees.  ? Perform year-end audit preparation for each fund's external auditor Commission Staff Accountant VCA Antech - Los Angeles, CA August 2014 to April 2016 Responsible for commission calculation and accruals. Will process monthly commissions and prepare related month-end journal entries with appropriate supporting documents  ? Analyze various general ledger accounts, research and initiate adjusting entries so that financial data is accurately reported  ? Perform monthly Payroll and Tax bank reconciliations and communicate with hospital managers on relevant adjustments.  ? Prepare schedules for related balance sheet accounts and perform appropriate analysis to explain variances.  ? Responsible for select partnership distribution calculations. Auto-Chlor Systems- A/R Administrator Mattson Resources - Costa Mesa, CA June 2013 to August 2014 Process all accounts payable materials, purchase orders and purchase receipts in MS Dynamics PO system  ? Daily Cash Applications pulling all checks from lock box and posting payments to invoices and accounts in MS Dynamics system, paying close attention to detail as some payments applied to multiple invoices  ? Supervise all accounts receivable. Maintain B2B collections at a percentage according to company policy. Review all contracts for completeness and first paid invoices. Key member of "two-charge" meetings detailing status of each client and identifying problem clients.  ? Prep customers and sales and service representatives on a daily basis for cash collection. Summarize and review deposits, and prepare banking at the end of each day.  ? Maintain client privacy, security, and company confidentiality. Education Master of Science in Accounting Keller Graduate School - Sherman Oaks, CA 2019 Skills EXCEL (8 years), GREAT PLAINS (2 years), LAWSON (2 years), MICROSOFT EXCEL (7 years), MICROSOFT OUTLOOK (6 years), Bookkeeping, accounting, Budgeting, General Ledger Additional Information SOFTWARE SKILLS    QuickBooks, Oracle, MS Dynamic (Great Plains), Lawson, Yardi, Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Excel (Intermediate)