Production Control Engineer Production Control Engineer Production Control Engineer - Trinity Industries Dallas, TX Work Experience Production Control Engineer Trinity Industries September 2017 to Present • Serve as team subject matter expert for SQL and IIS technologies.  • Operate and maintain VMWare environment including vCenter, vSphere, NSX, and vRealize.  • Deploy change scripts provided by development teams and third party vendors.  • When performance issues arise, determine the most effective way to increase performance.  • Maintain the company's web and database environment documentation.  • Diagnose and resolve web and database server reliability and performance issues.  • Responsible for the operation and administration of ADFS and Single-Sign-On across pre-production and production environments.  • Collaborate with end users, Business Analysts, Software Developers and business leaders to design solutions that address business opportunities.  • Participate in defining software development standards and processes  • Support migration of users from on premise Exchange to O365.  • Integrate Mulesoft and Boomi technologies for API management gateways.  • Pilot Skype for business integration to meet procedures and expectations of corporate directives.  • Design and maintain Active Directory (on premise and Azure AD), DNS, DHCP, and certificate management  • Design, deploy, and maintain Azure products and services across multiple tenants and subscriptions.  • Implement/Support best practice AD Security, cloud security and cloud identity management working with and managing ADFS, SSO, EMS and MFA.  • Migrate legacy environments from premise based to Office 365 or in some cases from cloud to cloud. Senior Systems Admin Care Innovations March 2017 to September 2017 • I have gained experience in Azure platform development, deployment concepts, hosted cloud Services, and Azure Active Directory integration.  • Platform upgrades (On-premise and Azure VMs), installing/deploying IIS services and Windows OS, SQL server installation (database, Integration and Reporting Services) and management, hardware load balancing, scripting, automation, combination of Systems and Web administration.  • Setup and configuration of various third party applications (SolarWinds, Spotfire, JIRA, Splunk, PRTG) to monitor and or compliment the Cloud Infrastructure.  • Setup Nutanix servers running VMware ESX 6.0 for use at Co-located facilities for support the Department of Veteran Affairs for integration of PHI (Protected Health Information). Senior Systems Admin Grote Industries, Inc April 2013 to March 2017 • Responsible for day to day server operations using VMware in Clusters utilizing physical servers in an ESX environment hosting 1200+ Virtual Machines with machines located in Canada, China, Germany, Mexico and the U.S.  • Setup of VMware View for terminal sessions utilized by 550+ employees in eight locations around the world.  • Setup SRM for Business Continuity\Disaster Recovery Planning by utilizing Co-located space at a secure facility with N+1 services.  • Setup and utilized VMware vRealize Operations Manager for capacity planning to meet current and future growth and performance requirements  • Developed a hybrid Exchange\Office 365 migration from Exchange 2010 Standard to Exchange 2016 Enterprise with archive storage capabilities servicing 3000 end users globally.  • Migrated the Shared, Resource and Room Mailboxes from On-Premise to cloud and back to On-Premise during the migration from Exchange 2010 to 2016.  • Built and managed AirWatch Servers for mobile device management of corporate devices.  • Managed the Exchange 2010 environment along with the integration of the Lync 2013 and Cisco Call Manager services for VOIP services.  • Leverage PowerShell to administer and automate repetitive tasks, saving time and effort for the day-to-day responsibilities. Network Engineer Absolute Network Solutions January 2011 to April 2013 • Responsible for effectively planning, installing, configuring and optimizing the IT architecture to consistently meet high availability and performance expectations for small and medium sized business.  • I have completed several Exchange migrations from older platforms (2003 and or 2007) to the current Exchange Server 2010 version.  • Responsibilities include trouble shooting and maintenance of existing DMZ, WAN, LAN, WLAN and VPN communications. As well as recommending new network devices utilizing Cisco switches and the Adaptive Security Appliance (ASA).  • Client services would include troubleshooting for organizations that may or may not have a full time I.T staff that would need professional expertise with specific projects and or technologies for example Microsoft Exchange Server, SQL Server, and Lync Setup, and domain migrations to name a few.  • Proactive in Identifying and maintaining documentation for support personnel in departments that assist user's and\or customers. System Administrator for Microsoft SQL Servers Tek Systems July 2009 to January 2010 • Created and Deployed Virtual Server's to meet business needs, both in house and at hosted facilities to meet the needs of the enterprise environment.  • Responsible for troubleshooting and problem solving of SQL and Oracle servers through the entire development cycle.  • Worked in a large VMware environment; 1,000 plus servers housed off-site to meet the needs of the enterprise WAN environment. L1 Help Desk CompuCom January 2009 to June 2009 • Administration of NetBackup Enterprise Server 6.5 for backup of the 1500 sites across 65+ countries.  • I was responsible for the production environment; reviewing support logs, backup/recovery procedures and periodic maintenance.  • Resolved technical problems and answered queries by telephone in support of internal and/or outside customers.  • Worked in a large VMware environment; 10,000 plus servers with sites located in 65+ countries. Education Bachelor of Science Indiana University 2011 to 2012