IT Administrator IT <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Administrator Whitestone, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Administrator John P. Picone - Lawrence, NY August 2018 to Present Supported over 50 onsite employees and over 200 remote employees.  Created and managed Exchange and Active Directory user objects.  Imaged laptop and desktop computers, inventoried and distributed IT assets.  Imaged iPhone devices and delegated access through AirWatch MDM.  Maintained Canon printers, delegated access to Canon Secure Print, and inventoried toner supplies.  Administrated Docushare file management system and SmartBid system.  Delegated access to network shares and managed network attached storage.  Configured and administrated NEC VOIP phone system with voicemail.  Responsible for minor IT purchasing decisions.  Organized large IT dispositions of deprecated hardware.  Assisted in large network upgrade replacing Cisco switches, configuring a new Fortinet Access Points, as well as new firewall and VPN.  Worked with Managed Service Providers (MSPs) for cloud based software and printer management.  Organized and coordinated return of EOL equipment, including final billing. Systems Analyst NYC Health + Hospitals - Kips Bay, NY April 2018 to August 2018 Handled an average of 30 calls and 50 Service Requests per day.   Handled Tier 2 Clinical calls on occasion.   Supported Active Directory based applications in a Microsoft Environment.   Provided printer and desktop remote troubleshooting.  Freelance Web Developer Freelance/Self employed - New York, NY January 2017 to March 2018 Service Desk Specialist 2nd Shift Montefiore IT - Yonkers, NY August 2012 to September 2016 • Handled an average of 30 calls and 50 Service Requests each day  • Managed Major Incidents and On Call escalations  • Assumed Team Lead responsibilities when needed  • Became HDI-SCA certified and gained extensive experience in IT Administration in a corporate environment.  • Was responsible for running regular SQL analytic reports used in director-level meetings.  • Used SQL knowledge to identify an overlooked ticketing issue and created a weekly report to correct and track the issue.  • Designed training documentation and managed Knowledge Base, and trained new associates  • Managed a team of three to work on special projects and other off-shift responsibilities. Education Web Development in Web Development Flatiron School - New York, NY September 2016 to January 2017 Information Technology Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY 2007 to 2008 Skills ACD (4 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (5 years), Ruby on Rails (Less than 1 year), React (Less than 1 year), Redux (Less than 1 year), ITIL (5 years), System Administration (5 years), Sharepoint (4 years), Peoplesoft (Less than 1 year), Citrix (4 years), Active Directory (5 years), VPN (5 years), Sharepoint (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office 2016 (2 years), Microsoft Office 365 (4 years), Microsoft Office 2013 (4 years), Outlook Web App (5 years), Skype (Less than 1 year), Webex (Less than 1 year), Novell (4 years), Vmware (Less than 1 year), Gotomeeting (4 years), Bomgar (1 year), SCCM (4 years), Dropbox (2 years), Jabber (Less than 1 year), Lync (3 years), Network Administration (5 years), It Specialist, Information Technology (5 years), Help Desk, Desktop Support, SQL (4 years), Ruby (Less than 1 year), Onboarding (3 years), Microsoft Office 2010 (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/james-segarra-iii Certifications/Licenses HDI-SCA September 2015 to Present