Managed Services Intern Managed Services Intern Cybersecurity Specialist Duluth, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Managed Services Intern Safe Systems, Inc - Alpharetta, GA March 2019 to Present • Install maintain and troubleshoot Multifactor/Dual Factor Authentication Procedures for Banks and Financial Institutions.  • Handle Malware Analysis and remediation for workstations and servers.  • Provide File Level and System wide Encryption across active systems.  • Monitoring of alerts from Rogue Access and DNS Spoofing. (COMSEC) Manager/Section Chief U.S. Army Signal & Communications 2011 to Present 2011-Present:  • Maintain effective communications using military radio and computer networks across Classified and Unclassified systems.  • Maintain Ownership of an updated Security Clearance that allows processing and handling of SECRET level documents and devices across state lines and country borders.  • Communications Security (COMSEC) manager and Section Chief of designated soldiers and personnel. VoiceNation Jr. Systems Administrator VoiceNation August 2017 to February 2019 • Organize, install, troubleshoot and maintain Linux, Windows and Macintosh environment across different departments.  • Produce user profiles using FreeIPA system to allow access across Network using LDAP protocol.  • Perform daily, weekly, monthly backup processes using shell scripts, cloned, restored, and archived on local or off-site servers.  • Assisted in changeover of company Firewall, and secure VPN access for remote users.  • Utilize VNC connections between CentOS, various Windows Server Operating Systems, and Mac OSX whether physical or virtual.  • Maintain seamless communication across workspace utilizing VOIP technology by SIP protocols.  • Manage trouble tickets for 100+ users and workstations. Charter Retention Agent Spectrum February 2017 to May 2017 • Assisted customers over the phone with various in-home network issues.  • Worked with coordination and scheduling of mobile service technicians to assist customers. IT Specialist Military/G6 ADOS Tour February 2016 to October 2016 • Worked with bridging VTC calls, and establishing a P2P communication using TCP/IP.  • Managed inventory of Bitlocked Windows workstations.  • Handled Imaging and reimaging workstations with the transition to Windows 10.  • Maintained inventory, distribution, and provisioning of Blackberry devices.  • Manager for Army Certificate System (ATCTS) which monitors soldiers up to date cyber training. Education Associates in Cybersecurity Gwinnett Technical College 2017 to Present U.S. Army Signal School 2011 High School Diploma Grayson High School 2008 to 2010 Skills Linux (1 year), Office 365 (Less than 1 year), LDAP (1 year), Windows (3 years), Mac OS X (4 years), VPN (1 year), Virtualization (1 year), Tier 1/2 Support (3 years) Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E-4 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ December 2017 to Present • Computing basics and concepts of databases and infrastructures.  • Installation and Security of devices from Laptop to PC on wired or wireless networks.  • Concepts of programming and application software.  Additional Information PERSONAL SKILLS:  • Strong Collaborator  • Effective Communicator  • Deadline Oriented  • Team Player  • Hands on Learner and Demonstrator  • Flexible with Given Projects and Timelines  • Active Leadership Abilities  • Energetic Presence