IT Analyst/ Systems Administrator IT Analyst/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Analyst/ Systems Administrator - Water4Life Solutions Oakton, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Analyst/ Systems Administrator Water4Life Solutions - Oakton, VA August 2016 to Present Gathered requirements and prepared documentation to implement IT modernization projects (Agile).  ? Enhanced internal IT Support and Webpage support, providing a user-friendly interface for employees to manage.  ? Installed and configured software to meet the client's IT modernization needs (Agile).  ? Conducted IT security measures to secure the company's network.  ? Led the research to help the company transition to an alternative cloud storage solution to improve data capacity while providing more oversight and accountability.  ? Tracking new business Alerts: Devex, World Bank, USAID.  ? Proposal preparation support: Research, graphics and charts, bios, budget.  ? Bookkeeping and tracking accounts payables and receivables.  ? Tracking payments and expenses for consultants.  ? Organizing/creating files on Dropbox. Eyewear Consultant Luxottica - Tysons Corner, VA June 2014 to August 2016 Top Sales associate at Lenscrafters in Fair Oaks Mall. My job was to set a positive and energetic vibe by constantly interacting with customers and leading them to develop an interest in the brand name frames carried in the store. I was later transferred to the top regional store in Tysons corner Mall due to my recognition of my excellent sales capabilities and customer relationship skills.  ? Scheduled eye exam appointments and checked eligibility on vision coverage for patients.  ? Assisted optometrist by performing pretest on patients.  ? Provided guidance to patients in selecting, ordering, and dispensing eyewear including contact lenses.  ? Managed an online purchasing and inventory management system.  ? Troubleshooting system to resolve customer issues.  ? Performed opening and closing duties. Education B.S in Information Systems and Operations Management George Mason University 2018 Management of Information Systems Management of Technology Project Management Skills REQUIREMENTS GATHERING, HTML, MS PROJECT, VISIO, DOCUMENTATION (2 years), Active Directory, Help Desk, Desktop Support, System Administrator Additional Information Technical skills Computer skills  ? Requirements Gathering  ? Cloud Solutions  ? Web Development  ? SDLC Documentation  ? Tracking and documenting project & office expenses  ? Help Desk Support  ? Business development  ? Proposal Support  ? Project Coordination    ? MS Office suite  ? MS project  ? MS Visio  ? Windows Server 2016  ? Google Cloud  ? Adobe Acrobat  ? Dropbox  ? QuickBooks  ? AWS  ? Cisco  ? Oracle  ? MYSQL  ? HTML & CSS VA