Independent Contractor Independent Contractor Southington, CT Technical professional with over three years of experience in the fields of computer security, technical support, and  research assistance seeking an opportunity to build upon current experience and position towards a career in information  security. Specific areas of strength include computer security analysis and protection, automating tasks with scripted  solutions, and familiarity with various Linux distributions. Work Experience Independent Contractor February 2015 to Present Served in various roles for different companies.  ? Developed a website for a nonprofit company.  ? Served as a mathematics tutor, both private and through a company.  ? Performed general factory work. Learned new machines, and added to user manuals.  ? Wrote and published fiction novella. Write short stories. Part Time Remote System Administrator QuoJax - Rochester, NY March 2014 to July 2015 Secured a compromised legacy web server and rebuilt it with a focus on web security.  ? Managed the web server transition and developed a plan to phase out the existing system.  ? Migrated files from legacy servers to new servers.  ? Worked with Apache 2 web server technologies. Project Assistant Internship -Windows Migration University of Rochester Department of Medicine - Rochester, NY January 2013 to May 2013 Responsible for developing and evaluating business and technical specifications for migrating  hospital computer to Windows 7 from Windows XP.  ? Provided solution, design, and methodologies to support migration tasks.  ? Provided technical support for 200 users during migration. Embedded Systems Programmer Internship Techwell Solutions - Rochester, NY March 2011 to July 2011 Developed software for in-house testing equipment and debugged embedded software on custom- made company devices.  ? Provided support for hardware and software issues. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Security and Forensics Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY September 2014 to 2015 Skills Css, Security, Apache, Linux, Red hat, C++, Git, Javascript, Perl, Php, Python, Backtrack, Metasploit, Nessus, Nmap, Wireshark, Eclipse, Java, Html5, Bash Certifications/Licenses Offensive Security Certified Professional (OSCP) Present Additional Information SKILLS:  Security Tools: Metasploit, Armitage, Cobalt Strike, WireShark, NMap, OphCrack, HashCat, IPTables,  OllyDbg, Nessus 3  Programming: C, C++, Java, PERL, Bash, Expect, Python  Operating Systems: Windows, Red Hat 6, Ubuntu, Backtrack 5, Kali Linux, CentOS  Web Technologies: Apache, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, PHP  Software: Vim, Eclipse, VirtualBox, VMWare, Microsoft Office, Git  Other: Technical Specification Writing