DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer - Bayview Asset Management Fort Lauderdale, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DevOps Engineer Bayview Asset Management - Miami, FL October 2015 to Present Responsible for the installation, configuration, administration, monitoring, and daily maintenance of enterprise-wide Apache Server, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS and IIS architectures.  ? Interact with Software Development and infrastructure teams to define physical and virtual requirements required to implement application solutions and troubleshoot technical issues.  ? Responsible for documentation surrounding architecture, design documentation and systems test planning.  ? Defines requirements for physical and virtual system architecture and evaluates performance, implements test plans and handles design documentation.  ? Responsible for open networks technologies for authentication using Active Directory and LDAP.  ? Interaction with business units and project managers to solve variety of business - as well as technical issues.  ? Interact with software, network and Linux infrastructure administrators to seamlessly implement solutions to complex technical issues.  ? Responsible for upgrades and patching, certificate renewals, and systems process monitoring.  ? Logs collection and analyzing using Splunk.  ? Technical documentation skills, supporting and working on multiple projects/tasks simultaneously.  ? Make recommendations for improvements to existing architecture. Systems Administrator Cross Country Home Services - Sunrise, FL July 2013 to September 2015 Configure, install, repair and update servers, desktops, hardware and software to create secure environment.  ? Maintain system performance by performing system monitoring and analysis, and performance tuning; troubleshooting system hardware, software, networks and operating and system management systems; escalating application problems to vendor.  ? Ensure secure environment by enforcing company policies and monitoring access in all environments.  ? Plan, coordinate, and accomplish assigned work under direct supervision; execute on well-defined tasks in a timely and quality manner.  ? Create and maintain technical documentation during projects and daily assignments.  ? Ability to troubleshoot hardware related issues as well as the ability to replace various hardware components.  ? Configure, install, repair and update servers, desktops, hardware and software to create secure environment.  ? Responsible and accountable for security, privacy and maintenance of all company iPhone, iPad & Droid mobile devices.  ? Create, configure, maintain virtual servers in VMware vSphere 5. Systems Administrator HTH Worldwide - Wayne, PA January 2011 to April 2013 Plan, coordinate, and accomplish assigned work under direct supervision; execute on well-defined tasks in a timely and quality manner.  ? Create and maintain technical documentation during projects and daily assignments.  ? Ability to troubleshoot hardware related issues as well as the ability to replace various hardware components.  ? Configure, install, repair and update servers, desktops, hardware and software to create secure environment.  ? Keep company printers in working order throughout entire office by diagnosing problems and fixing hardware issues.  ? Assists in identifying and resolving user problems and concerns with office automation equipment, hardware and software.  ? Acquires, installs, configures, and maintains office productivity software and tools.  ? Handle network configurations; Configure HP Pro Curve switch to the correct VLANs, adjust patch panel to correct ports accordingly.  ? Responsible and accountable for security, privacy and maintenance of all company iPhone, iPad & Droid mobile devices using Maas360; also repaired broken screens for company iPhones.  ? Configure and manage wireless routers throughout the office. Education BA in Computer Management Information Systems in Computer Management Information Systems Liberty University of Lynchburg Skills Apache (4 years), IIS (3 years), INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES (3 years), JBOSS (3 years), LDAP. (3 years), Linux, Devops, Jenkins, Microsoft Azure (1 year) Additional Information Skills    OS: Linux (Ubuntu, RedHat, CentOS), Windows Servers 200x, Mac OS X.  Protocols: TCP/IP, FTP, DHCP, LDAP, SNMP, SMTP, VPN, DNS, VoIP.  Applications: Confluence, Tidal Enterprise Scheduler, Splunk, AppDynamics.  Continuous Integration: Jenkins, Git (BitBucket & GitHub), SVN, Ansible, Artifactory, Nexus, RabbitMQ.  Virtualization: VMware ESXi/ESX 4.1, 5.0, 5.5, VMware Workstation & Fusion, Oracle Virtual Box.  Architectures: Apache, Tomcat, JBOSS, IIS, .Net Core.  Load Balancers: Netscaler, F5.  Databases: MySQL, MSSQL, MongoDB.  Cloud: Microsoft Azure.  Languages: Python, Bash, Ant, Ansible, HTML, CSS.  Ticketing System: JIRA, Service Now.