Sr. Desktop Analyst Sr. Desktop Analyst Sr. Desktop Analyst Chicago, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Desktop Analyst TEKSystems - Chicago, IL February 2019 to July 2019 • Supported VIP's, Tier 1 and remote office users within the United States and Internationally  • Troubleshooted laptops/desktop issues and Mobile devices as well as RSA authentication, and Office 365 issues.  • Worked with Active Directory, Blackberry Work, RSA, Director for VDI thin clients, Citrix and Outlook  • New PC builds, network problems, audio/Visual setups for meetings, software instillations and job pushes  • VMware management and updates, end of life upgrades  • Works with third-party vendors  • Point of contact technician for high-level projects and migrations as well as Tier 1 technicians  • Tier 2 Support Technician IT Systems Specialist Lead Mizuho Bank LTD - Chicago, IL September 2016 to February 2019 • Created system documentation and training guides for users and incoming technicians  • Responsible for Tier 1 / 2 level support to in house and international users  • Provided support for users in a Windows 7/10 and Virtual Environments as well as VPN users  • Troubleshooted issues with Outlook 2010 and 2016  • Supported in-house/external users in ATL, DC, WAS and TX Branch locations.  • Maintained and troubleshooted Technical Equipment (Computers, Phones, Video Units, Servers, Switches, etc.)  • Participates in system development and software testing projects with vendors.  • Worked with in-house users and external users/vendors to fulfill banks technology needs.  • Installs computer systems and software's.  • Support all levels of staff including VPs, Executives, and Senior Executives.  • Daily server data backups and updates to the server when needed. Systems Administrator/Desktop Support Lead North Town Academy High School - Chicago, IL October 2014 to July 2016 • Lead System Administrator for North town High School  • Maintained computers\projectors and all IT equipment for the campus  • Created and maintained training and knowledge base documents for users and new technicians  • Installed system updates and configuration changes regularly on all systems  • Implemented new policies and procedures to increase security on apple devices for entire school  • Worked directly with corporate office to fulfill Tech needs of school staff, administrators and directors  • Added/created/deleted and Modified user's in Outlook as well as Active Directory  • Created Purchase orders for new equipment and parts as needed Lead Data Analyst IRI - Chicago, IL May 2012 to October 2014 • Lead Technician for Tier 1 call center that supported over 1500 users throughout the united states and internationally  • Accepted and logged user calls (in S.O.R.T Support Order & Request Tracking System) and provided resolutions to users by telephone, email, or remote tools in accordance with service standards.  • 85% (OCOT) SUCCESS RATE.  • Escalates calls (as necessary) to Level II and level III IT staff, or authorized contractors to resolve problems and/or execute user request according to published escalation procedures.  • Maintained ownership of user inquiries and request through resolution, owning the relationship with the customer. SharePoint Administrator ACCRETIVE HEALTH - Chicago, IL February 2012 to May 2012 • Created/maintained 300+ SharePoint sites.  • Designed/ presented SharePoint sites to clients.  • Helped migrate to new SharePoint version 2010 for all clients.  • Worked in a team of 2 to establish 90% overall satisfaction with clients. Banker Life & Casualty ACCRETIVE HEALTH - Chicago, IL December 2009 to May 2010 Remote Desktop Tech  • Provided remote support for 450+ users and all locations nationally and internationally.  • Supported smartphones including Blackberry, Trio, and Palm for clients worldwide.  • Created, updated, reset and unlocked clients accounts using Active Directory and AWD.  • Diagnosed incoming problem tickets according to level of importance.    PLATFORMS AND TOOLS  • Software: MS Office, AS/400, Remedy Ticket System, Active Directory, Norton, McAfee, Unicenter GUI Ticket System, Smart Team, AWD, Aris, SQL  • Operating Systems: Windows 7 / Vista / XP / 2000 / 98 / MAC OS  • Hardware: Hard Drives, CD / DVD Drives, Desktop PCs, Laptops, Monitors, Keyboards, Power Supplies, Memory/RAM, Port / Slot Installations, Server backups / Updates  • Networks: Wireless Network Setup and configuration, WAN, LAN, Basic Cisco / Network Troubleshooting commands  • Databases: Oracle Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY DEVRY UNIVERSITY - Chicago, IL October 2009 Skills Lan, Training, Customer service, Preventive maintenance, Maintenance, Problem solver Additional Information KEY SKILLS    • Technical Troubleshooting  • LAN Connectivity  • Software Installs  • Problem Solver  • Customer Service  • Preventive Maintenance  • Hardware Configurations  • Team Collaborations  • User Training Support