REALTOR REALTOR Holly Springs, GA Dynamic professional with extensive experience providing administrative and human resource support  within corporate settings. Excel at overseeing hiring process, managing HR systems, creating reports, and  assisting with organizational data. Possess excellent written and communications skills, coupled with  strengths in team building, project management, and leadership. Known for exemplary work ethic and  strong interpersonal skills with ability to multitask in changing environments. Proficient using ORNL  systems and MS Office (Word, Excel, and PowerPoint). Core competencies:    Database Management Employee Records Documentation and Reporting HR Compliance  Employee Engagement Training and Development Compensation/Payroll Administration  Recruiting Hiring Orientation/Onboarding Scheduling Customer Service Project Management Work Experience REALTOR KELLER WILLIAMS - Knoxville, TN March 2017 to July 2018 Listed and sold homes Administrative Assistant March 2014 to June 2017 • Provided administrative support.  • Researched equipment to maintain calibration compliance dates and prepare work orders; maintained  calibration records and generated monthly reports.  • Prepared weekly meeting notes and supplied managers with updates on pending work.  • Coordinated scheduling of management's commitments.  • Improved communication, organization, and working procedures. OAK RIDGE NATIONAL LABORATORY - Oak Ridge, TN March 2012 to November 2013 Mar 2014 - June 2017 Core Team Administrator March 2012 to November 2013 • Served as primary administrative resource for work performance issues related to business, finance, and information management.  • Interacted with customers/clients supplying excellent service.  • Communicated information to team members to enhance performance.  • Developed business plan and annual work plan in collaboration with facility manager; tracked progress.  • Verified business, financial, and work control systems supported customer operations. Staffing Assistant B&W Y-12 - Oak Ridge, TN September 2009 to May 2010 • Oversaw hiring process; posted job requisitions, interviewed applicants, completed background checks, and led new-hire orientation.  • Maintained employee records, prepared reports, and coordinated benefits and travel arrangements.  • Interfaced with internal/external clients and customers, supplying high level of customer service.    (865) 705-5357 tamararhenson@gmail.com    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE - CONTINUED TEMP SYSTEMS ENERGX - Oak Ridge, TN September 2007 to May 2008 Human Resource Specialist/Office Manager  • Directed daily office operations, coordinated management meeting scheduling, completed AP, and assisted with interview and hiring process.  • Audited company's employee files and assisted during benefit open enrollment period, acting as liaison  between employee and insurance companies.  • Set up and organized new office location.    BWXT Y-12 (TEMP SYSTEMS), Oak Ridge, TN Feb 2004 - Oct 2004/Aug 2005 - Mar 2006  Administrative Assistant Aug 2005 - Mar 2006  • Provided administrative support to 14 project managers during construction projects.  • Maintained database. Staffing Assistant February 2004 to October 2004 • Assisted with new-hire process during company restructuring that required 700+ salaried employees to reapply for their positions, scheduling large volume of interviews within eight-month period.  • Reviewed resumes to match candidate strengths with new job opportunities for technical, administrative, or professional positions.  • Completed human resource functions, coordinating drug screens, travel arrangements, and security  access for interview candidates.  • Created procedure documentation detailing staffing assistant responsibilities. Office Manager/Outside Sales SOUTHERN SAFETY SUPPLY, LLC - Knoxville, TN February 2002 to July 2003 • Sold safety supplies to industrial accounts and managed daily office operations, account collections, and product quotes.  • Communicated with prospective clients to highlight product quality/benefits and secure new business. Education Bachelor of Science in Organizational Management in Organizational Management TUSCULUM COLLEGE - Knoxville, TN Associate of Science in Marketing in Marketing PELLISSIPPI STATE TECHNICAL COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Knoxville, TN Skills CRM, Customer Service, Marketing, Outlook, Microsoft Office, Powerpoint, Sales, Word