Network Systems Administrator Network <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Columbia, SC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Systems Administrator The Adjutant General - South Carolina Army National Guard - Columbia, SC June 2018 to Present Designed, documented and executed maintenance procedures, including  system upgrades, patch management and system backups.  Handled special projects designated by the senior developer.  Executed and monitored standards for user interfaces  Responsible for implementation of new mainframe development project.  Ensured that sites adhered to brand guidelines.  Routinely reviewed training materials and course details to ensure that  important updates were included within a reasonable time frame. IT Specialist Army National Guard - Camden, SC May 2015 to Present Confer with project personnel to identify and resolve problems.  Establish and execute a project communication plan.  Perform risk assessments to develop response strategies.  Test and verify hardware and support peripherals to ensure that they meet  specifications and requirements, by recording and analyzing test data.  Monitor functioning of equipment and make necessary modifications to ensure  system operates in conformance with specifications.  Specify power supply requirements and configuration, drawing on system  performance expectations and design specifications. Seasonal Game Advisor GameStop - Columbia, SC November 2018 to January 2019 Receive payment by cash, check, credit cards, vouchers, or automatic debits.  Greet customers entering establishments.  Answer customers' questions, and provide information on procedures or policies.  Sell tickets and other items to customers.  Process merchandise returns and exchanges.  Stock shelves, and mark prices on shelves and items. Loss Prevention Associate Ross Distribution Center - Rock Hill, SC November 2017 to June 2018 Identify case issues and evidence needed, based on analysis of charges, complaints, or allegations of law violations.  Prepare or review specifications or orders for the purchase of safety equipment,  ensuring that proper features are present and that items conform to health and safety standards.  Follow ethical codes that protect the confidentiality of information.  Sort and route incoming mail, and collect outgoing mail, using carts as necessary.  Enforce rules and regulations of recreational facilities to maintain discipline and ensure safety. Assembler Black and Decker - Fort Mill, SC September 2017 to October 2017 Inspect, test, and adjust completed units to ensure that units meet specifications,  tolerances, and customer order requirements.  Assemble parts or units, and position, align, and fasten units to assemblies,  subassemblies, or frames, using hand tools and power tools.  Position, align, and adjust parts for proper fit and assembly.  Attach name plates and mark identifying information on parts.  Drill, tap, ream, countersink, and spot-face bolt holes in parts, using drill presses and portable power drills.  Operate or tend automated assembling equipment, such as robotics and fixed  automation equipment. Kennel Assistant The Dog Knowledge - Charlotte, NC August 2017 to September 2017 Observe animals for signs of illness, injury, or unusual behavior; notifying  veterinarians or managers as warranted.  Assign tasks such as feeding and treatment of animals, and cleaning and maintenance of animal quarters.  Perform the same animal care duties as subordinates.  Confer with managers to determine production requirements, conditions of equipment and supplies, and work schedules.  Inspect buildings, fences, fields or ranges, supplies, and equipment in order to determine work to be performed.  Administer prescribed medications to animals.  Feed or exercise animals or provide other general care, such as cleaning or maintaining holding or performance areas. Cashier Bojangles - Fort Mill, SC December 2014 to September 2017 Maintain sanitation, health, and safety standards in work areas.  Clean food preparation areas, cooking surfaces, and utensils.  Read food order slips or receive verbal instructions as to food required by patron, and prepare and cook food according to instructions.  Take food and drink orders and receive payment from customers.  Clean, stock, and restock workstations and display cases.  Cook the exact number of items ordered by each customer, working on several  different orders simultaneously.  Serve orders to customers at windows, counters, or tables.  Prepare and serve beverages such as coffee and fountain drinks. Kennel Assistant Newport Veterinary Hospital - Rock Hill, SC June 2017 to August 2017 Observe animals for signs of illness, injury, or unusual behavior; notifying  veterinarians or managers as warranted.  Train workers in animal care procedures, maintenance duties, and safety precautions.  Treat animal illnesses or injuries, following experience or instructions of veterinarians.  Assign tasks such as feeding and treatment of animals, and cleaning and maintenance of animal quarters.  Perform the same animal care duties as subordinates.  Confer with managers to determine production requirements, conditions of equipment and supplies, and work schedules.  Inspect buildings, fences, fields or ranges, supplies, and equipment in order to determine work to be performed.  Examine animals for injuries or malnutrition, and arrange for any necessary medical  treatment.  Supply animals with food, water, and personal care.  Clean facilities and equipment such as dog pens and animal control trucks.  Write reports of activities, and maintain files of impoundments and dispositions of animals.  Administer prescribed medications to animals.  Feed or exercise animals or provide other general care, such as cleaning or maintaining holding or performance areas.  Keep records documenting animal health, diet, or behavior.  Mix feed, additives, and medicines in prescribed portions.  Advise animal owners regarding sanitary measures, feeding, general care, medical  conditions, or treatment options. Pet Care Associate Petsmart - Rock Hill, SC August 2016 to March 2017 Observe animals for signs of illness, injury, or unusual behavior; notifying  veterinarians or managers as warranted.  Train workers in animal care procedures, maintenance duties, and safety precautions.  Treat animal illnesses or injuries, following experience or instructions of veterinarians.  Assign tasks such as feeding and treatment of animals, and cleaning and maintenance of animal quarters.  Perform the same animal care duties as subordinates.  Confer with managers to determine production requirements, conditions of equipment and supplies, and work schedules.  Establish work schedules and procedures. Education Associate in Veterinary Medicine Penn Foster - Scottsdale, AZ June 2020 IT US Army Cyber School - Augusta, GA January 2016 to June 2016 High School Diploma in General Studies York Comprehensive High School - York, SC June 2015 Skills WEB PAGE DESIGN (Less than 1 year), Scheduling, Inventory, training, Outlook Military Service Branch: Army National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: E4 May 2015 to Present Certifications/Licenses Blue Sky Mast, CCE, CORC & Capstone Exercise September 2018 to Present Hurricane support; DIRECT training Table 1 Individual Operator June 2017 to Present Table 1 individual operator on the satellite transportable terminal (STT) signal system Table 1 Individual Operator June 2017 to Present Table 1 individual operator on the command post node (CPN) signal system SNAP Network Operations Training August 2018 to Present SIPR NIPR Access Point Networking SNAP V1 NET August 2018 to Present SNAP V1 NET (New Equipment Training) Driver's License April 2018 to January 2026 Driving history for 5 years BasicPlus May 2018 to May 2020 CPR, AED, and First Aid for Adults Additional Information SKILLS    Animal Care Expert     Veterinary Medicine Beginner    Web Page Design Skillful    WPM: 113