Producer/Director/Editor Producer/Director/Editor Austin, TX To advance my career in the technical customer support field. I am looking for a progressive, team-oriented position in a challenging environment where my skill set can be utilized to the fullest. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Producer/Director/Editor TheSurlyNerd.com - Austin, TX July 2012 to Present Website design and setup for TheSurlyNerd.com. Show production with emphasis on consistency and quality. The last year has been spent with design and branding changes to  reach larger audiences. Main duties: weekly show production, social media, and design. Personal Shopper Instacart Shoppers - Austin, TX February 2018 to May 2019 Austin, Texas - February 2018 - Current  Responsible for quickly and accurately assembling orders from a selection of over 5,000  products where appearance and freshness is a factor. Emphasis on customer service  experience, ensuring that customers receive the best products in the available stock and making  personal recommendations. Working one on one with the customer base to provide the best  shopping experience. Exceeds metrics for user feedback and order speed. Linux Systems Administrator L2 Hostway - Austin, TX August 2015 to January 2016 Supported both Windows and Linux dedicated and virtual server customers. Assisted and educated customers on basic and advanced use of products and services. Participated in team  meetings, providing input and suggestions to further increase productivity. Server building and installation. Linux Systems Administrator Giganews - Austin, TX May 2013 to February 2015 Monitored server health and network statistics over multiple data centers globally. Engaged in troubleshooting and replacing server hardware as needed. Trained new hires in job duties. Built and tested new servers and networks for deployment. Designed and implemented company  workflow procedures. Sr. Technical Support Consultant HP Cloud Services - Austin, TX October 2011 to January 2013 Instructed users on setup and use of cloud servers from user interface and API through chat and Salesforce.com ticketing system. Created Knowledge-base and workflow for Knowledge-base    articles. Created policies and training for support representatives. Education Computer Systems Technology and Graphic Design Houston Community College 2002 to 2005 High School Diploma Kerr High School - Houston, TX 1997 to 2001 Skills APACHE, LINUX, RED HAT, DNS, API, CURL, REST, FTP, EXCEL, OUTLOOK, POWERPOINT, WORD, PHOTOSHOP, AFTER EFFECTS, ILLUSTRATOR, ADOBE PHOTOSHOP