IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Administrator/AWS SysOps Houston, TX Proactive self-starter known to initiate procedures and system improvements to increase system stability and staff productivity. Dedicated IT professional with over 2 years of comprehensive, technical and troubleshooting experience using AWS. Over 8 years of expertise in IT infrastructure, networking, application support. Work Experience IT Systems Administrator Global Healing Center - Houston, TX April 2018 to Present Global Healing Center - I.T Systems Administrator  • Deploy, manage, and operate scalable, highly available, and fault-tolerant systems on AWS.  • Select the appropriate AWS service based on compute, data, or security requirements  • Migrated QuickBooks Windows application from Swizznet to AWS using AWS EC2 and Workspaces.  • Migrated companies' Linux webserver from IBM Soft Layer to AWS using EC2, RDS, Route53, and S3.  • Create and manage VPC and Bastion hosts.  • Extended corporate network into Amazon Virtual Private Cloud using Cisco Meraki's AMI.  • Designs and maintains IAM security policies within AWS.  • Assist with the thorough documentation, maintenance, and continuous improvement of standardized processes using JAMF Pro.  • Implemented imaging workflow for all macs assigned to companies' JSS server using Apple DEP and VPP.  • Creates solutions by using custom scripts for various company needs using bash, python, and apple scripts and cocoa dialog  • Creates, manages, develops, & secures enterprise ready ma Cos images, maintaining security updates and service packs for supported applications, and performing necessary QC and verification for installation on all supported Mac clients using tools such as JAMF Pro and NetSUS.  • Implemented NoMAD and NoMAD Login for Active Directory authentication.  • Installed and configured Microsoft Active Directory 2016 server utilizing DNS, GPO, and LDAP for user authentication and file sharing.  • Performs system resource management, manages system accounts, performs system-wide backups and data recovery using Code42 Backup cloud solution.  • Configured and implemented CRM with integrations to e-commerce platforms and various marketplaces.  • Implemented and maintains Cisco CES appliance with integration to G Suite.  • Strengthens network security by using Cisco CES, Umbrella, Threat Response, and Sophos Central Endpoint Protection. IT Senior Support Global Healing Center - Houston, TX December 2016 to April 2018 • Provide architecture, engineering and lifecycle management for the Company's Enterprise Mac OS desktops via JAMF Pro.  • Provide Level III support for the configuration, installation, and maintenance of Mac OS X and iOS systems and applications  • Troubleshoot mass packaging and application deployments as escalations arise  • Contribute to development and ongoing improvement of industry best practices and standards for deploying Enterprise Mac technologies  • Managed major OS upgrade from El Capitan to High Sierra using Composer, Jamf Admin and Self Service. Desktop Support Engineer Influence Health - Hoover, AL April 2015 to December 2016 •       Designed, planned, and implemented JAMF Pro Cloud mobile device management system.   •       Managed all aspects of Mac deployments including software packaging, configuration profiles and VPP.  •       Created standardized company image and deployed via Casper Imaging.   •       Technical lead for all Mac related issues supporting multiple remote locations.   •       Evaluate, test, and deploy patches and upgrades and establish processes to ensure proper patch level compliance across the desktop environment.   •       Provided technical training and help desk support functions to agency end-users.  Application Support Specialist Diamond Jacks Casino And Hotel - Vicksburg, MS May 2012 to April 2015 •       Developed documentation for the first-tier IT support team to utilize in installing applications, diagnosing issues and use of the product  •       Oversees the administration of casinos’ MICROS, MGT and CMS systems.  •       Administer corporate AS400 tasks such as user account creation, password resets and HIS hotel integration support.   •       Troubleshoots and maintains MICROS database using EMC and RMC.  • Responsible for all tiers IT support. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Jackson State University - Jackson, MS 2014 Skills Active Directory, Linux Administrator, System Administrator, System Admin, Linux, Vmware, Redhat Certifications/Licenses Cisco CMNO JAMF Certified Admin JAMF Certified Technician Lean Six Sigma Yellow Belt