VMware Systems Engineer VMware <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer VMware Systems Engineer - State Street Bank • IT professional with 5+ years of experience in area of virtualization with installation, configuration, administration, support of VMware ESXi 5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0/6.5/6.7 and vCenter server 5/6.0/6.5/6.7 with both Embedded and External PSC, windows servers 2003/2008R2/2012R2/2016.  • Expertise in upgrading vCenter Server from 5.5 to 6.0 to 6.5 to 6.7, migrating vSphere from Windows server 6.0 to Appliance 6.5.  • Expertise in Maintaining Business Continuity Disaster Recovery using Zerto, Migrating over 2000 Virtual Machines over the Datacenters.  • Expertise in advanced features of ESX/ESXi, vDS, Host Profile, vMotion, Storage vMotion, HA, DRS, vCenter Standalone converter, Configuring vRealize operations manager, vRealize Automation and Update Manager.  • Expertise in building, installing and configuring and support of windows 2008/2008R2/2012R2/2016 servers, upgrading windows server 2003 to windows 2008 and 2012/2016 on both physical and virtual machines to ensure server compliancy as part of upgrade/build process.  • Expertise in implementing WSUS and SCCM 2007/2012 for centralizing the OS and security patch management throughout the data center on the servers running on windows operating system. Work Experience VMware Systems Engineer State Street Bank - Boston, MA February 2019 to Present • Install and Configure vCenter 6.0, 6.5 Appliance, ESXi 5.5/6.0/6.5 hosts, vCenter Update manager and administer 7+ vCenter's in different markets across US and Administered 4000+ VM's across 7 different datacenters.  • Upgrade all ESXi hosts utilizing Vmware Update Manager baselines, Upgrade VMware tools and hardware version as part of upgrade from 5.5/6.0 to 6.5.  • Upgrade VCSA appliances and VMware vCenter running on Windows based servers as part of major refresh project.  • Configure advanced features of ESX/ESXi 5.0/5.5/6.0/6.5, Distributed virtual switches, Host Profile, vMotion, Storage vMotion, HA, DRS, vCenter Standalone converter and Update manager.  • Responsible for capacity planning, design and install and configuration of newly provisioned HP C7000 enclosures running bl460 G9 blades with Pure Storage and Solid fire.  • Convert RDM's to VMDK as part of migration process to ensure data stability.  • Administering Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, WINS and building new windows physical/virtual servers as per the requirement of the project.  • Deploy security patches, updates as part of the patching cycle using WSUS and SCCM.  • Identified and developed automation for routine infrastructure tasks; notably, auto scaling virtual machines using vRealize Operations, VRealizeOrchestrator, and PowerCLI.  • Document and categorize all SOP (standard operating procedures) to ensure the onshore/ offshore model has maximum reliability. VMware/Windows Systems Administrator (Migration Specialist) Davita Inc - Denver, CO March 2017 to February 2019 • Responsible for creating, configuring and applying the Host Profile to specific hosts.  • Develop, test, and maintain a Disaster recovery plan for critical VMs an application data  • Worked the complete lifecycle of a datacenter relocation project, including standing up the new environment for prod servers as well as powering off all the servers in the non-prod environment which were fork lifted and shipped to the new datacenter and restarting them.  • Installed, configured and deployed SRM as well as Failback Testing from Protected Site to Recovery Site in SRM and Shared Recovery Site across protected sites.  • Installed and configured Disaster recovery solution using Zerto across different vCenters for business continuity and implement migration strategy for consolidating datacenter from around the world to single centralized location which involves 4000+ virtual servers and 100+ physical servers using vCenter standalone converter.  • Created an entire migration plan within two weeks for their voice messaging/IP phone services as part of datacenter migrations to ensure maximum uptime on servers.  • This involved creating the cluster, configuring hosts, spinning new VM's via OVA templates, and supporting them while closely working with external vendors; which the client uses since our environment was hosting the client.  • Troubleshooting IIS applications based on monitoring and logs generated on the server  • Centralized distribution of packages using SCCM creating user groups, distribution packages and advertisements  • Performance monitoring and tuning for ESX Servers, Virtual Center Server (vSphere) and Virtual machines  • Creation of templates from VMs and Creation of VMs from templates  • Performance monitoring and tuning for ESX Servers, Virtual Center Server and Virtual machines Systems Engineer VST Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2014 to August 2015 • Worked with a team of Datacenter support to maintain OS and Hardware.  • Responsible for the installation, configuration and support of VMware vSphere and the daily management/monitoring of the virtual environment.  • Creation of templates from VM's and Creation of VMs from templates  • Performance monitoring and tuning for ESXi servers, Virtual Center Server (vSphere) and Virtual machines.  • Migrated all existing machines from VMware Lab Manager to vCloud Director 5.1.  • Automating the environment through VMware Orchestrator and writing scripts for daily tasks.  • Worked with application owners, project managers, business directors to design and develop integrated solution utilizing VMware ESXi, Windows Server to enhance performance and develop cost analysis charts to ensure maximum budget reduction. Education Masters in Engineering in Engineering Texas A&M University Kingsville Bachelors in Engineering in Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Esxi, Vmware, Vsphere, Virtualization