Tech & Apps Management Specialist II Tech &amp; Apps Management Specialist II Tech & Apps Management Specialist II - ADP Queen Creek, AZ I am looking to expand and challenge myself by focusing on working to be knowledgeable and  to become a point of contact for support functions or services. Work Experience Tech & Apps Management Specialist II ADP January 2017 to Present • Install and verify user profiles on new employee's laptops.  • Assist in escalated cases from our Associate Service Desk.  • Process equipment returns for employee departures and/or lease upgrades.  • Troubleshoot and resolve Windows 7 and Windows 10 application or OS based issues.  • Repaired and installed software, hardware and peripheral components end user laptops  • Assign and deploy application access through SCCM Configuration manager for end users.  • Utilize Service Desk for ticketing and tracking of reported issues and projects.  • Configure the Citrix Receiver on End user machines.  • Utilize the Citrix Application Center for User management and application hang ups  • Configure and install RSA software tokens for employees. Systems Administrator Contractor December 2015 to November 2016 • Served as a technical resource for the resolution of routine computer system issues.  • Resolved all IT issues and assisted in any operational items requested.  • Provided quality customer service while demonstrating the ability to effectively  • Basic and advanced problem analysis and recommends solutions to the end-user or manager  • Set up new users and removed network access for outgoing users.  • Repaired and installed software, hardware and peripheral components on PCs and servers.  • Worked in hybrid network environment with on prim and cloud-based applications    Contact  480.201.9310 (Mobile)  jimepp68@gmail.com Systems Administrator/Desktop Support Merits June 2015 to August 2015 Education AAS in Applied Computer Science Lamson College - Tempe, AZ Skills MICROSOFT WINDOWS, WINDOWS 10, WINDOWS 7, WINDOWS SERVER 2003, MICROSOFT WINDOWS SERVER 2003 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ August 2006 to Present