Salesforce Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Financial Data Analyst - The NPD Group Ronkonkoma, NY Work Experience Salesforce Administrator SmartSource Rentals - Hauppauge, NY February 2019 to Present • Managed Salesforce 125 Salesforce licenses to promote 95% user activity.   • Coordinated with 45 sales reps in 5 channels to examine Salesforce pipeline and brainstorm new revenue opportunities.   • Created reports and dashboards that reps can effectively use to monitor YTD revenue to YTD budget as well as forecast pipeline to budget.   • Created lead assignment rules based on several factors; geography, product type and industry, to ensure clients were aligned with the most capable rep to meet their needs.   • Executed focused marketing campaigns by detailing leads and contacts that met certain criteria based on past behavior. Financial Data Analyst The NPD Group - Port Washington, NY July 2018 to February 2019 Analyzed trends on financial KPIs representing revenue, expenses and capital expenditures.  ? Distributed monthly reports explaining KPI variances along with detailed action plans.  ? Automated reporting of financial model by incorporating VBA in Microsoft Excel. Manufacturing Supervisor The Nature's Bounty Co - Bohemia, NY May 2017 to July 2018 Manufactured 3 million tablets and capsules each shift by managing assignments for 25 employees.  ? Improved machine efficiency in compression by 5% by analyzing downtime data with pareto graphs.  ? Enhanced product quality by reducing process variability in 5 work areas and 30 production machines.  ? Reduced safety incidents in compression/encapsulation by 10% by implementing 5S system in injury prone areas.  ? Coached employees on standard operating procedures, safety guidelines and work instructions by providing feedback via observation. Quality Systems Analyst NBTY Inc - Bohemia, NY November 2015 to May 2017 Managed quality management systems by reviewing non-conformance reports and CAPAs on a daily basis.  ? Monitored timely disposition and execution of material review by facilitating 3 material review meetings per week.  ? Tracked quality defect and root cause trends by applying pareto analysis to custom PQM reports. Quality Systems Auditor NBTY Inc - Bohemia, NY December 2014 to November 2015 Ensured 21 CFR 111 compliance by auditing designated processes for 2 packaging facilities on a monthly basis.  ? Communicated top 10 audit findings to plant management by graphing observations in bar chart.  ? Coordinated recurring monthly meetings with 6 department managers to formulate actions plans regarding audit findings. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Management in Finance State University of New York at Stony Brook University - Stony Brook, NY May 2013 Skills EXCEL, MS EXCEL, POWERPOINT, WORD, TIME MANAGEMENT Additional Information Skills  ? Proficient with MS Excel, Word and PowerPoint  ? Technical writing  ? Data presentation  ? Time management  ? Leadership