System Administrator I <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I System Administrator I - US Air Force Intelligence Squadron Birmingham, AL Work Experience System Administrator I Vectrus November 2018 to Present  Operates and maintains all aspects of server administration to include but is not limited to Microsoft 2012 AD, WINS, DNS, and DHCP.   Performs daily administration of Exchange 200x servers and Outlook Web Access   Performs VERITAS Backup Exec to conduct file server Backup / Restores   Maintain Systems Availability and perform regular maintenance on equipment   Maintains antivirus / security requirements by the US Army standards and regulations Cyber Systems Operator US Air Force Intelligence Squadron - Birmingham, AL July 2015 to Present  Provides core services by designing, configuring, installing, and managing data services at the operating  system and server application level.   Serves as IT Team Lead in support of military intelligence operations; responsible for ensuring the execution of quality customer support and 24/7 mission critical system operability.   Performs system resource management, manages system accounts, performs system-wide backups and data recovery, and load and capacity planning and management.   Brief project update and timeline, outage, and systems status presentations to customers and senior level leadership daily; advised technical decision makers; single point of contact for product and service information and technical assistance.   Maintains antivirus / security requirements by the US Air Force standards and regulations with information disseminated up to a TS level.   Installed $850 thousand worth of communications infrastructure to include over 24 miles of fiber optic cable, 7,500 feet of Cat6 copper cable, 1,400 feet of coaxial cable, and 12,500 fiber termination kits. Financial Care Representative T-Mobile - Homewood, AL August 2016 to November 2018 Handles 90 tickets a day to ensure compliance with company standards.   Accounts for 30 percent of team goals with call resolution time of 190 seconds per call.   Coordinates with clients and negotiate on all payment settlements for same.   Enhances the completion of training to keep in touch with changes in policy. Education Associates of Science. Information in Systems Management Community College of the Air Force June 2018 to Present Advanced Diploma Shades Valley H.S. - Irondale, AL 2009 to 2013 Skills Unix, Security, Linux, R2, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Windows 7, Windows server 2008, System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Linux Administrator, SCCM Military Service Branch: United States National Guard Rank: Senior Airman Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES/SKILLS:  * Proficient with Windows Microsoft, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Power Point and Outlook)  * Proficient OS: Unix, Linux, Vista Business Enterprise, Windows 7, 8, 10  * Proficient with Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2012 R2, and 2016  * Active TS SCI Security Clearance