Ppap coordinator Ppap coordinator Quality Casco, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Ppap coordinator Stanley Engineered Fastening - Chesterfield, MI July 2018 to Present Directs sampling inspection and testing of PPAP parts, components, and materials to determine conformance to standards and customer requirements.  Responsible for operation of computer hardware and software related to PPAP data collection and determination of product quality and process capability.  Interface with both customer and subcontractors as required in such areas as: PPAP, APQP, Process Control Plans, PFEMA’s, MSA and SPC, etc.  Gathers and reports monthly reports for PPAP status.  Detail orientated and able to fill out appropriate paperwork to zero errors.  Support timely and comprehensive reporting of PPAP status to customers and management.  Understand technical customer specifications. Quality Engineering Intern ZF (FCA Marysville) June 2018 to May 2019 • Data mining in multiple systems for warranty and internal quality related issues  • Creating presentations for customer NCT's and warranty issues, and internal and external quality issues  • Coordination and investigation of internal and external quality issues  • Enforcement and implementation of quality processes  • Auditing (Plant rule violations, 5s, and LPA)  • Improvement and management of auditing processes  • Document monitoring and control  • Analysis of Statistical Process Controls  • Assist in error proofing efforts and improvement  • Create, update, investigate, and closure of 8D's and related documents for NCT's (CCN, SCN, and ICN's)  • Capability studies  • Using effective communication to solve critical quality issues while working with multiple levels of management.  • Worked with PQE's to establish effective PFMEA's Control plans, product and process audits.  • Quality alerts for safety, process, and systems.    During my internship at ZF my highest achievement was the improvement production systems by fault code analysis to reduce maintenance downtime and improve the performance of systems through monitoring, reporting and auditing efforts. Quality systems administrator Motor City Stamping January 2018 to June 2018 • Documentation of quality processes  • Material planning  • Assist with PPAP process  • Document control  • Compliance records  • Knowledge of IATF 16949, ISO 14001, 9001  • Data Analysis  • Auditing  • WPO  • Error proofing  • Quality alerts    At Motor City Stamping, I assisted with material planning, record keeping, auditing, error proofing processes, process mapping, and creating charts and documents for compliance efforts. I used effective communication while engaging with my peers in problem solving of quality efforts. I successfully created error proofing on over 25 different product types of brackets for GM. Improved WPO, created scheduling for PPAP, and calibration efforts. Staffing Coordinator Career Connections May 2017 to January 2018 • Accounts Payable 50+ employees  • Create/Maintain/close employee files on multiple systems  • Audit/Maintain/enter employee hours into database  • Payroll   • Assign pay cards/direct deposit information  • Frequent interaction with clients on administrative issues  • Prepare workers' compensation audits and claims management  • Recruiting, scheduling interviews, attending events  • Orientations  • Manage Job postings and social media platforms  • Create and maintain ATS, Req's, Timeclock.    While employed at Career Connections, I successfully implemented, documented processes for payroll, recruiting, and assisted in creation of orientation processes, implemented new ATS systems. I also successfully implemented employee incentive programs and made key strategic alliances with entities within the clients' area to aid in full-cycle recruiting. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Administration Baker College June 2017 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/christina-rauch-15ba71b0