Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator / Service Desk Agent - Prelude Services Mechanicsburg, PA Energetic self-starter, able to work independently or with diverse groups to achieve targeted goals.  Takes advice and direction from coworkers and supervisors with an open mind. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Prelude Services 2015 to Present Systems Administrator  Built Configured and maintained all servers physical and virtual. Built configured and maintained all  systems in VMWare and multiple Citrix environments. Configured and maintained backups in multiple backup systems. Worked with Avamar, NetBackup, BackupExec and Veam. Worked on  projects and client conversions migrating them into our domain.  Service Desk  Answered phone calls and performed troubleshooting on any issues that came up. Maintained a high 90% FCR and took in the range of 30-40 calls a day. Helpdesk Agent, Full-Time Randstad 2013 to 2015 Worked with many different clients and assisted with technical needs.    Labor and Industry  Worked with Active Directory, Mainframe, Microsoft Office 2010, Windows XP and Windows 7.  Worked with both Remedy and Servicenow ticketing systems, did general troubleshooting for printers and internet browsers. Maintained an average FCR of 80%-90%    Members 1st  st  Worked with the general public supplying assistance with technical issues with Members 1 bank,    performed troubleshooting with Internet Explorer, Safari, Google Chrome and Firefox. The ticketing  system used was Remedy. Maintained an average FCR of 95%    FBL Financial  Multi-tasked many duties while maintaining high call stats and high call volume. Performed  troubleshooting for Citrix, Office 2010, Office 2013, Office 365 OWA, Active Directory, Trivoli,  Bomgar and many more, Maintained and average FCR of 95%+ Education Computer Networking and Internet Technology Keystone Technical Institute - Harrisburg, PA April 2013 Skills Help Desk, Service Desk, Desktop Support, Tech Support, Helpdesk Support, System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, Linux, System Admin