Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Security Professional Raleigh-Durham, NC Passionate and dedicated professional with experience in incident response, intrusion detection and analysis, system administration and tooling. Experienced in positions of team leadership and self directed leadership. Currently in school pursuing a Bachelor's of Science in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer Endurance International Group August 2016 to May 2019 As a member of the Technical Integrations team I developed solutions for the migration of newly acquired web hosting brands onto the Endurance platform. I was the technical lead of our VPS/Cloud migration team. Tasked with developing tools, migrating servers and solving issues that arise from migrating thousands hosting accounts onto the Endurance platform. This position requires a breadth of technical knowledge, development skills and an ability to solve problems in a fast paced environment with tight deadlines.   Security Analyst PhishLabs October 2015 to August 2016 Worked in the Security Operations Center of PhishLabs. Identifying and analyzing phishing sites, malware, rogue mobile applications that are on the Android and Apple app stores, ransomware and crimeware. As well as developing internal tools to assist in the optimization of day to day workflow, such as a bulk whois tool utilizing various whois APIs to retrieve domain contact information including: web host, network provider and domain owner.  Senior Security Administrator Endurance International Group September 2013 to October 2015 Worked as the senior escalation point for the abuse departments at Endurance brands. Created documentation for internal policies and best practices. Determined and secured root level compromises. Addressed advanced postmortem and active intrusion issues. Worked with third party vendors and RBL organizations to improve our network's reputation. Detected and cleaned malware and phishing sites from infected servers. In April of 2013 I was recognized by the director of system administration as the employee of the month for resolving over 1,000 escalations in a two-week period with a 100% satisfaction rating.  Education Bachelor's in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Western Governors University 2019 to 2020 Skills Git, Python, Apache, Linux, DNS, System Administration, AWS, Security, SQL, BASH, MySQL, Nginx, Exim, Atlassian Suite, Iptables, Nmap, Log Analysis, Intrusion Detection, Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana