Linux Systems Cloud Engineer Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> Cloud Engineer Linux Systems Cloud Infrastructure Engineer - PhishLabs Jacksonville, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux Systems Cloud Engineer PhishLabs - Charleston, SC 2016 to Present provided infrastructure support and system development for company wide products  • Set up all user authentication and access. Server permissions, ssh, apache htdigest,  AWS IAM policy creation, internal applications, API keys. SSO integration with Azure  • Wrote Terraform playbooks for rapid deployment of products into Cloud  • Provisioned new servers (CentOS, Ubuntu, FreeBSD) utilizing various hosting solutions.  Dedicated hardware on OVH, SoftLayer and Leaseweb, cloud instances such as digital  ocean droplets and AWS EC2 instances, virtualization via virtualbox and vagrant.  • Performed a complete lift and shift migration of Application stack from baremetal  servers to AWS and Openstack cloud instances.  • Configured various applications and server resources to fit product needs. Apache, nginx,  SSH, Iptables, DNS, postfix, GitLab, Bitbucket, Software Repositories, postfix and Procmail rules, Nagios, Prometheus, etc..  • Performed server audits, disaster recovery scenarios, vulnerability scans, and system  patching for hardening and security efforts.  • Set up ansible for configuration management and automation  • Developed tools for developers and users to mitigate complexity of tasks and allow them  to do more work.  • Troubleshot system issues alerted by user or monitoring and crafted quick solutions to get back to operational standards, participated in on call rotation.  • Migrated applications into docker to be used in kubernetes clusters  • Set up various jenkins jobs and pipelines for application deployments Cyber Security Analyst II PhishLabs 2015 to 2015 providing further advanced analysis for clients and mentor-ship for junior analysts  • Acted as an escalation point for investigation of more complex cybercrime campaigns  • Mentored and trained level 1 analysts.  • carried out performance reviews, case audits and personal evaluation of level 1 analysts  • Researched and became Subject Matter Expert in BePush malware campagins. Cyber Security Analyst I PhishLabs - Charleston, SC 2014 to 2014 Unix Systems Programmer Blue Cross Blue Shield - Jacksonville, FL 2013 to 2013 Management of AIX and RHEL servers and system programming  • Became go to admin for Storage technologies - both Netapp and EMC storage arrays  • Worked closely with server provisioning operations, creating new VM's and LPAR's as well  as installation and configuration of applications such as Samba, Commvault, websphere,  SSH etc.. performed all firmware updates and deployments  • Wrote scriptis and programs in shell (KSH, Bash), and various other languages (perl,  javascript) such as government audit stig checks, task automation and unix learning  games for other depts.  • Assisted clients in general unix tasks such as setting user permissions, expanding  filesystems, adding users, editing config files, installing additional software, Virtual  Machine resource allocation, Cron jobs etc..  • Worked on infrastructure development for affordable healthcare act marketplace Linux Systems Administrator PetGuard - Orange Park, FL 2010 to 2012 System admin, Web Developer, General IT  • Part of a two man team that handled in house servers hosting various web applications  from the corporate website, ordering and tracking software, time management, and email.  • Made various frontend and backend website enhancements via html/css and php  • Did a complete overhaul on system security and turned it into something of pride  • Migrated all applications from RHEL3 servers to CentOS5 servers which allowed for much better security and thousands of dollars saved in licensing costs.  • Handled provisioning of users and equipment as well as troubleshooting anything  related to a computer. Electronics Technician PC Depot Computer Outlet - Orange Park, FL 2008 to 2010 Handled diagnostic troubleshooting and repair of computers  • Diagnosed computer hardware and software issues down to a component level  • Installed home theater systems  • Performed malware cleanup and data recovery  • managed inventory ordering and sales reports Education A.S. in Computer St.Johns River State College - Orange Park, FL 2013 Skills AWS (3 years), Linux (10+ years), malware (4 years), Nagios (3 years), provisioning (4 years), Red Hat, Devops, Linux Administrator, Redhat, Rhel, terraform, ansible, Bash, Python, C