IT Technician IT Technician Macedon, NY Work Experience IT Technician College of Art and Design RIT - Henrietta, NY January 2018 to Present • Assisted in the setup of a brand-new server room with equipment totaling 1.2 million dollars.  • Increased productivity with a reorganization of office space.  • Responsible for training, integration and interviewing of new employees. Cybersecurity Engineer Co-Op Eaton Corporation - Pittsburgh, PA June 2017 to December 2017 • Responsible for first-time and re-analysis of physical and data security of products, ranging from penetration testing to automated analysis.  • Responsible for reports of findings averaging 40 or more pages. Jr. Systems Administrator / IT Tech College of Art and Design Co-Op RIT - Henrietta, NY January 2017 to May 2017 • Responsible for daily upkeep of over 2,000 computers, both PC and Mac.  • Daily tasks included immediate technical support of professors and students, as well as long-term projects.  • Responsible for top-to-bottom set up of labs and other learning environments including cabling management, physical security management, and deployment of area dependent softwares. Education Bach. of Science Rochester Institute of Tech - Henrietta, NY August 2014 to Present Skills Assembly, Cryptography, Linux, Reverse engineering, Network security, Information security, Nessus, Networking, System administration, Switching, Java, Security, Sql, Python, System security, Risk management, Audit, Forensics Additional Information SKILLS    Java, Python, C, SQL, Assembly  Windows, OSX, Linux  Burp Suite, Zap, Nessus, Appscan    CLASSES    Computer Security: Computer Security 101, Cyber Security Policy and Law, Computer System Security, Computer System Forensics, Principles of Web Application Security, Reverse Engineering Fundamentals, Risk Management for Information Security  Computer Science: Intro to Cryptography  Networking: Network Services, System Administration, Intro to Routing and Switching, Network and System Security Audit, Network Security and Forensics