Financial Analyst/Staff Accountant Financial Analyst/Staff Accountant Financial Analyst/Staff Accountant - Exeter Government Services Work Experience Financial Analyst/Staff Accountant Exeter Government Services - Frederick, MD January 2018 to Present • Supports Federal Student Aid and its debt management and collection systems and processes.  • Performs daily accounting and reconciliation processing and reporting for a long-term government contract.  • Provides financial analysis and accounting systems support for day to day operations and for daily, weekly, monthly, and other periodic reconciliations.  • Reports multiple accounts/portfolios which manage and monitor debts and debt collection activities and events.  • Uses data manipulation techniques such as pivot tables and V Lookups to analyze loan data.  • Utilizes complex SQL queries to extract General Ledger data Junior Systems Administrator Trinitech Consulting - Beltsville, MD March 2018 to August 2019 Perform multiplatform Server builds on VMware, which include Windows Server 2008, UNIX Solaris 10, LINUX Centos 6.4, and RHEL 6.4. Responsible for assigning hostnames, static IP addresses, default gateway addresses and DNS addresses to Windows 2008 Servers so as to introduce them to the network. Use the "dcpromo" tool to configure DNS, Active Directory as well as to promote standard Windows 2008 servers to domain controllers  Windows 7, 8 and 10 NOS imaging and configurations and software deployment. Create new User accounts and profile on Windows NOS, UNIX and LINUX systems. Troubleshoot and resolve OS, application, malware desktop related issues on various Windows NOS. Use TCP/IP troubleshooting tools to troubleshoot and resolve network connectivity and DNS related issues in the LAN  Configure Windows NOS clients to join the domain as well as configure file and print sharing on some Windows NOS to enable resource sharing.  Experience in building and configuring VMware host and guess systems on Oracle Virtual Box as well as bridging the Guess VMware systems to communicate with other physical LAN systems. Benefits Verification Specialist AmerisourceBergen - Rockville, MD November 2017 to January 2018 • Verified all demographic, benefit, and insurance information for cancer patients and corrected and obtained any missing information in Patient Plus CRM.  • Used knowledge of Medicaid, Medicare, and Private Health Insurance to research patient's benefits with payers.  • Completed data entry in Patient Plus CRM to document patient's benefit coverage.  • Submitted requested medical documentation to insurance companies.  • Demonstrated excellent customer services to patients, healthcare professionals, and insurance carriers.  • Troubleshooted authorization related issues in the Patient Plus CRM. Project Cost Analyst Mele Associates - Rockville, MD July 2017 to August 2017 • Facilitated contract travel requirements and reviewed requests and expense reports.  • Reviewed subcontractor invoices for labor rate and spend accuracy.  • Reviewed MELE client invoices for labor rate and spend accuracy.  • Prepared monthly cost and travel reports for clients in Excel.  • Combined and finalized monthly status reports in Word.  • Provided cost analysis to support contract award execution.  • Reviewed subcontractor hours and costs to assess and request PO funding needs.  • Generated project baseline budgets and projections in Excel.  • Compiled data and generated reports in Excel for various levels of program review.  • Participated in proposal preparation through costing and administrative support.  • Effectively communicated with corporate staff on project accounting, contracts, and human resources issues.  • Looked up client, customer, and employee data in Deltek at Neo CRM database. Also updated database to make sure client, customer and employee information was current.  • Retrieved large cost funding data spreadsheets from Cognos database to prepare sheets to be sent out to vendors. Graduate Services Assistant American Association of Colleges of Podiatric Medicine - Rockville, MD November 2015 to April 2017 • Created queries, forms, and reports using SQL and Microsoft Access to improve access to significant information related to podiatry students and programs.  • Entered additions/corrections to databases making information easier to view and assess.  • Maintained and analyzed statistical information using charts, graphs, and pivot tables in Microsoft Excel in each program area to serve as a substantial guide for analytical purposes.  • Responded to email and written correspondence and fulfill requests for publications, applications and residency information and development to inform and help podiatry students and programs.  • Assisted applicants in navigating the website and conducted basic website troubleshooting to ease the applicants' online experience on CASPRweb (the portal for podiatry students).  • Updated websites' HTML code using basic programming compiler Visual Studio as directed to ensure that the website content was current.  • Assisted with CRIP Scheduling, including reviewing CRIP reservations and schedules for programs and to provide additional support as needed to make CRIP successful and useful for students and programs. (CRIP stands for Centralized Residency Interview Process)  • Produced daily reports from the web-based programming as required to keep students and programs informed of latest changes. Data Analyst National Electric Benefit Fund - Rockville, MD August 2015 to September 2015 • Assisted in transferring the insurance coverage information of several employees and participants in the "Family Medical Care Plan (FMCP)" from the old system called Ceebas to the new system called "V3". V3 essentially is more efficient than Ceebas.  • Analyzed employer information in Microsoft Excel using pivot tables and charts.  • Submitted the payroll by entering the insurance coverages information of several employees and participants into an online database system called V3  • Edited, entered and verified participant data so that it matched the information from the monthly reports.  • Adjusted data manually when needed in order to reduce errors. Research Assistant American Institutes for Research - Washington, DC May 2015 to June 2015 • Researched, developed, and maintained online and paper score reports for statewide assessments of student achievement.  • Analyzed assessment scores in Microsoft Excel and compared it to online database.  • Conducted highly detailed quality checks for online and paper reports to ensure that the final print of these reports had no mistakes.  • Reduced errors significantly and improved final quality of outgoing research reports to our clients. Medical Records Assistant MBI Health Services LLC - Washington, DC December 2014 to May 2015 • Checked insurance plans and treatment plans for over 50 patients every hour using computer program called Credible in order to determine their eligibility for day health program.  • Caught over 20 patients ineligible for treatment nearly every day due to issues with insurance or the absence of treatment plans.  • Copied over 50 medical charts every day in order to keep record of "billable" and "not billable" patients and compile a "Do Not Admit" list.  • Filed over 200 medical charts in file cabinets therefor contributing to neater and more organized office space.  • Improved patient billing experience and Medicaid compliance of the company. Fisheries Research Assistant Rockville, MD July 2014 to October 2014 • Assisted with weekly mailing of over 100 advanced letters, informing marine fishermen of their required fishermen survey two weeks before actually interviewing them.  • Interviewed over 200 captain and owners of fishing vessels over the phone using CATI.  • Gathered valuable research data through phone interviews for a government survey geared towards improving pelagic fishing experience.  • Entered data into log sheet using Microsoft Access.  • Checked survey data from in-person interviews using computer program called OCR to ensure survey data was correctly scanned into computer. Education Bachelor of Arts in Economics in Economics University of Maryland College Park - College Park, MD May 2014