Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Somerset, KY Avid worker with 7+ years of experience in providing technological and administrative support, as well as 2+ years of managing an electronic refurbishment sales account. Seeking to leverage my technical and professional expertise to learn and grow within the field of computer technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Lynn and Darla Supported Living Services October 2012 to Present Responsibilities:  • Set up new workstations and laptops for new hires.  • Manage company email accounts via Microsoft Office 365.  • Address assorted tech issues.  • Train new staff on tech systems.   • Assess and suggest technology solutions for company needs.  Achievements:  • Assisted owner directly with tech consultation.  • Taught disabled adults basic computer skills.  • Work remotely and independently. E-Waste Supervisor United Cerebral Palsy of the North Bay - WineBev Services - Napa, CA May 2017 to June 2019 Responsibilities:  • Provide transport to a group of clients to and from their homes via a company vehicle.  • Supervised and trained a crew of disabled adults to perform electronic waste refurbishment and recycling.  • Managed eBay sales account for refurbished electronic parts and systems.  • Maintained warehouse, dismantling tools, and resale inventory.  • Ensure R2/RIOS policies and regulations are followed.  Achievements:  • Successfully trained the first two disabled adults in the company to become certified to drive a forklift.  • Successfully reopened and managed a company eBay sales account with a profit of at least $10,000 per month.  • Single-handedly maintained the warehouse to pass regulatory requirements without any negative marks.  • Increased e-waste productivity by well over 300% in only six months.  • Upgraded the entirety of UCPNB and its subsidiary companies with new workstations and networks after assessing technology needs.  • Created testing sheets and procedures that are still used by the company. AM Operations Assistant OnTrac - Petaluma, CA February 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Provided support for preload crew.  • Provided administrative support for upper management.  • Performed light maintenance on incoming linehaul trucks.  • Dispatched drivers to respective routes.  • Processed and resolved customer/driver questions and complaints.   Achievements:  • Volunteered to work odd hours as coworkers called out.  • Provided quality customer service resulting in positive company reviews.  • Provided administrative assistance that resulted in passing an internal quality assurance audit.  • Single-handedly trained a coworker on job duties and tasks. "Chief Elf" Napa Valley Toy Company - CLOSED - Napa, CA September 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Interacted directly with customers on floor and at register and addressed concerns/questions.  • Assisted owner with scheduling.  • Managed receipts and end-of-day cash out.  • Managed shipping and receiving.  Achievements:  • Single-handedly managed the store successfully for 3 months.  • Supervised other employee until store closure.  • Assisted in packing down merchandise and furniture after store closure. AM Package Sorter OnTrac - Petaluma, CA February 2015 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Promptly and correctly sorted incoming freight to assigned area.  • Assisted management with training new staff.  • Assisted operations office employees with varied tasks.  • Worked at least 6 days a week.  Achievements:  • Correctly sorted over 1200 boxes per shift. Sales Associate Toys R Us - CLOSED - Burbank, CA June 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Assisted varied customers on sales floor with questions and concerns.  • Receive and sort incoming merchandise.  Achievements:  • Sorted and stocked over 200 boxes of incoming freight per shift. Education High School Diploma Mark Twain High School 2012 Skills Driving a route with a company vehicle (2 years), Forklift Operator (2 years), Computer Repair (7 years), Customer Service (4 years), Computer Hardware, Proficient in Microsoft Office Suite, Electric Pallet Jack (1 year), Shipping And Receiving (4 years), Inventory Management (2 years) Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nb2nz2a7szmorh8d Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.