Jr. Network/ Systems Administrator Jr. Network/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Jr. Network/ Systems Administrator - Ocean Reef Club Florida City, FL Resourceful Jr. System/Network Administrator able to respond to a wide range of challenges with a focused and creative approach. Highly effective at problem solving and decision making. Five years of progressive IT experience. Work Experience Jr. Network/ Systems Administrator Ocean Reef Club - Key Largo, FL September 2016 to Present • Oversaw IT activities to maintain operations by maintaining laptops, tablets and PDAs for 500+ users.  • Monitored operational and security procedures for numerous computers in the network, related systems administration and maintenance protocols.  • Set up hardware and software in optimal configurations to meet network performance requirements.  • Established, repaired and optimized networks by installing wiring, cabling and devices.  • Managed system-wide operating system and software deployments, as well as any related upgrade problems.  • Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades.  • Provided documentation on start-up, shut down and first level troubleshooting of processes to help desk staff.  • Monitored network performance and provided network performance statistical reports for both real-time and historical measurements.  • Updated network systems to support confidential company operations and eliminate hacking.  • Responsible for support and development of company disaster recovery plan.  • Installed appropriate security patches to dissolve security vulnerabilities. Computer Technician Miami-Dade County - Doral, FL January 2016 to November 2016 • Broke down and evaluated user problems using test scripts, personal expertise and probing questions.  • Setup, installed and configured computers in various business locations to support operations and reporting.  • Linked computers to network and to peripheral equipment, including printers and scanners.  • Assessed system hardware and software and suggested modifications to reduce lag time and improve overall speed.  • Explained technical information in clear terms to non-technical individuals to promote better understanding. Audio Visual Technician Ocean Reef Club - Key Largo, FL December 2015 to September 2016 • Adhered to safety protocols while installing projectors, displays and speakers.  • Provided troubleshooting techniques in integrating professional audio/video systems.  • Performed tasks by using proper tools, materials, methods and safe practices in accordance with best industry practices.  • Pulled and terminated variety of cables. IT Deployment Technician KForce Inc - McAllen, TX June 2015 to December 2015 • Broke down and evaluated user problems using test scripts, personal expertise and probing questions.  • Configured hardware, devices and software to set up new workstations for employees.  • Explained technical information in clear terms to non-technical individuals to promote better understanding.  • Followed up with clients to ensure optimal customer satisfaction following support engagement and problem resolution. Education Associate of Science College of Business and Technology - Miami, FL 2014 High School Diploma South Dade Senior High School - Homestead, FL 2012 Skills Active directory, Ccna, Cisco, Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Cisco certified network associate, Dns, Exchange, Mcse, Security, Optics, Fiber optics, Operations, Best practices, Maintenance, Aerial lift, Associate, Microsoft exchange, Microsoft office Additional Information SKILLS  • Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) R&S  • Cisco Certified Entry Network Technician (CCENT)  • Network+ Certification  • A+ Certification  • MCSE (Currently Pursuing)  • Utilized Troubleshoot Active Directory, Office 365 and the range of the Microsoft Office suites.  • Microsoft Exchange  • Cisco switch and routing  • Fiber optics experience  • Mac and PC operating systems  • Cable-running expertise  • Hardware and software installation  • Security best practices  • Network component installations    • Skilled in TCP/IP and WAN  • Technical analysis  • Servers expertise  • System upgrades  • User Support  • Enterprise Wi-Fi management  • Network maintenance  • Network and server troubleshooting  • Aerial lift operations  • Bilingual Spanish/English  • DNS, DHCP, WSUS  • Cyber Ark  • Solar Winds  • Zabbix