Spanish Tutor Spanish Tutor Brooklyn, NY Able to diagnose and analyze electromechanical problems associated with development, performance and servicing of computers and computer-based office automation equipment. Proficient in C++ and Java. Experienced in Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, InfoPath, and Outlook. Fluent in Spanish, reading, writing, speaking Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Spanish Tutor Wyzant - Independent Tutor - Brooklyn, NY February 2017 to Present • Tutor students one-on-one aged 6 to 8 years old, high school and college students, and young adults in order to improve written, reading, and conversational skills while also gain more confidence during tests.  • Develop personalized plans for students according to their goals and needs.  • Write and submit summary and progress after each tutoring lesson. Systems Administrator / IT & Graphic Art Support Apexx Omni-Graphics - Maspeth, NY August 2018 to December 2018 G Suite Google Administrator.  Servicing Windows Server, DNS, Active Directory.  Troubleshot, diagnosed, and resolved software and hardware issues (Roland VersaWorks printers). Math Tutor SAGA Innovations - Brooklyn, NY April 2018 to June 2018 Tutored and mentored seven to ten 9th grade students in Algebra I at Abraham Lincoln High School.  Provided language support and scaffolding for English language learners whose first language is Spanish. IT Specialist NYC Human Resources Administration (HRA) - Brooklyn, NY May 2014 to November 2016 IT Specialist, Medical Insurance & Community Services Administration (MICSA), Office of Procedures-Forms Unit  • Provided Technical Support to MICSA's Medicaid Authorized Resource Center (MARC) system, which provides Medicaid information for providers authorized by City of New York.  • Designed/revised form drafts, in both Microsoft Word and Microsoft InfoPath. Help Desk Technician HRA- Office of Staff Resources - New York, NY October 2011 to March 2013 • Provided support to end-users of proprietary software by phone, and/or electronically through ticketing system.  • Filled in for in-house IT services as needed, installing new desktop systems for staff and project managers.  • Troubleshot, diagnosed, resolved and documented software and hardware issues. Education B.S. in Computer Science Brooklyn College/CUNY - Brooklyn, NY December 2015 A.A.S. in Electromechanical Engineering Technology New York City College of Technology - Brooklyn, NY June 2012 Skills C++ (4 years), Java (4 years), Microsoft Office (4 years), Microsoft Excel (4 years), Eclipse (2 years), Javascript (2 years), HTML (1 year), Hibernate (1 year), technical support (4 years), linux (4 years), Teaching, Typing, Powerpoint, problem solving, Organizational Skills, Communications, Organizational Skills, Communications Links http://linkedin.com/in/nygonzalezivan http://wyzant.com/Tutors/ivan_ny Additional Information Relevant Projects  Dunk A Prof  Video game developed in Java using OOP as part of the backbone team.     Ken Ken Puzzle  Classic Ken Ken Puzzle developed in C++ as part of the testing team. 