I.T. Consultant and Support Technician I.T. Consultant and Support Technician I.T. Consultant and Support Technician - Barz Solutions, LLC Mounds, OK Full time position in an environment that offers challenge, while allowing me to apply creative problem solving skills and gain further experience Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience I.T. Consultant and Support Technician Barz Solutions, LLC - Tulsa, OK March 2015 to Present Provided advice, guidelines and technical support to clients of small to medium sized businesses. Helped organizations and employees with the change management process. Utilized remote and in-house desktop support for day to day desktop issues. Built, managed and maintained NAS servers, Windows servers, OS X servers. Email integration support and Active Directory roles. Performed all software and hardware configuration and upgrades. Role out O.S. systems on Windows and Macintosh Platforms. Setup and managed LAN and wireless printers, created folder redirection on desktops to server. Domain management, mobile device consulting, configuration of emails, apps and hardware repairs. Performed onsite analysis, diagnosis, and resolution of peripheral hardware and software issues for end users, and implemented corrective solutions, including offsite repair for remote users as needed. Consulted organizations management and employees of current growth and change in Information Technology directly correlated to their businesses technological needs. Provided support and management of routers, switches, access points, VPN access and unattended remote access. Consulted and configured backup solutions per clients needs. Team 2 Lead/I.T. Director Mentor Technologies Inc May 2013 to March 2015 Collaborated with Chief Executive Officer regarding I.T. policy, procedures and direction of business. Supervised all technical support staff; "Team 1", "Team 2" and "SeamLESS Team". Responsible for all technical support teams' weekly calendars, on-site tickets, and in-remote tickets. Reviewed all technicians closed tickets and corrected technical writing before billable to clients. Monitored, managed, maintained the server environment including; Active Directory, Exchange and SQL database. Prepared and monitored disaster recovery solutions, including backups of servers via Tulsa-Connect and Reflection offsite backup software. Guided support staff in repairs and upgrades of hardware, network infrastructures and software. Installed, setup, and maintain appropriate software on in-office servers. Developed bid specifications as required by company policy for new and replacement of hardware and software. Responsible for coordinating the selection and purchase of equipment and support materials needed to reach company goals. Developed and maintained an accurate inventory of all company technology equipment. Assisted CEO in coordinating and providing in-service and hands-on training for company staff for hardware and software applications as needed. Maintained a limited inventory of hardware, software, parts and materials sold to clients. Performed other duties as assigned by the CEO. I.T. Systems Administrator Mentor Technologies Inc May 2013 to March 2015 Provided In-House and On-Site IT Support and Network Administration. Maintained, diagnosed and configured systems, hardware and software issues. Installed, configured, and supported existing and new client local area networks (LAN), wide area networks (WAN), and Internet systems or a segment of a network system. Maintained network hardware and software. Monitored networks to ensure network availability to all systems users and performed required maintenance to ensure network availability. Occasionally supervised other network support and client server specialists and infrastructures. Coordinated, and implement network security measures. Issued server upgrades and server migrations, desktop migrations and upgrades. Configured, maintained and supported Firewalls and Routers. Email and hosting support. Maintained all security standards in both a server and network environment. Computer Technician Rogers State University June 2012 to January 2013 Academic Computing Services  Assembled all users' computers, including loading of operating systems, drivers and software. Distributed computers and provided support to new users. Handled printer setups and installations. Familiar with TCP/IP protocols and troubleshooting. Assisted in technical issues including password resets and basic computer troubleshooting. Assisted in the configuration of Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 8, Leopard, Snow Leopard, Lion and Mountain Lion. Provided extensive hardware and software support, virus removal and software installation. Provided Network Support and installation for wired and wireless networks. Replacement of parts for Dell desktops, Laptops and Projectors. Assembled in-house server builds. Education Bachelor's of Science degree in Applied Technology Rogers State University - Claremore, OK January 2011 to May 2013 Associate's Degree in Banking and Finance in Banking and Finance Northeastern State University August 2006 to January 2008 Associate's Degree in Liberal Arts in Liberal Arts Tulsa Community College August 2004 to May 2006 Skills Active directory (6 years), Excel (10+ years), printers (4 years), security (1 year), Vpn (4 years), Desktop Support (9 years), Help Desk, MAC, Service Desk, Macintosh (10+ years), Tech Support, Mac OS X (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Switches (7 years), Customer Service, Microsoft Office, Networking, Technical Support, Windows 7, Vmware, Sales, Javascript