Production Supervisor/ Systems Administrator Production Supervisor/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Quantifiable Objectivity Guntersville, AL, 35976, US A Self-motivated and dependable leader who can achieve a high level of performance with minimal supervision. A task completer with a diverse employment background in food and manufacturing processing plants and business. Experienced and demonstrates excellent client and project management skills. An action-oriented individual with a strong ability to communicate effectively with coworkers, executives, and business leaders. A team player. Work Experience Production Supervisor/ Systems Administrator Southern Metal Processing - Oxford, AL January 2018 to Present VP of operations Scott Payton 256-831-8130  Conduct plant safety audits required for each assigned shift. Audits performed are: Salt audits are conducted every hour of shift, Solvent audits are conducted every other hour of shift, Water Treatment audits are conducted 8AM, 12PM, 4PM for first shift and 8PM, 12AM, and 4AM for second shift. Conduct Property Checks are conducted every three (3) hours to include: Generator and Compressor Rooms, Chemical Dock/ Storage Area, and Steamroom for gas level monitoring and proper remixes for plant operations. Manage production to meet or exceed daily goals. Verify all GMPs are being followed and product meets testing standards. Packing Manager Farm Fresh Foods - Guntersville, AL January 2017 to November 2017 President Mark Welborn 256-264-9180    ? Negotiated material and supply costs with vendors.  ? Determined material needs and placed orders for all corrugated, plastic, CO2, and pallets.  ? Supervised employees on two (2) shifts.  ? Tracked and documented daily inventories.  ? Collected, calculated, and graphed data in regards to usage of materials to maintain ample stock of plant production.  ? Collaborated with Plant Managers and Shipping Managers to facilitate good flow of materials to prevent bottlenecks in the production and shipping processes. Master Scale Operator Pilgrims Pride Corporation - Guntersville, AL January 2016 to January 2017 Supervisor Arnold Rivera 256-582-5631  ? Adhere to all applicable regulations, policies, and procedures for health, safety, and environmental compliance.  ? Set up and operate plant production equipment according to current good manufacturing practices and standard operating procedures.  ? Set up and verify the functionality of safety equipment.  ? Calibrate and/or adjust plant equipment to ensure quality production using tools such as calipers, micrometers, height gauges, protractors, and ring gauges.  ? Monitor and adjust production processes and equipment to facilitate and ensure quality and productivity.  ? Troubleshoot problems with equipment, devices, or products.  ? Start up and/or shut down processing equipment. Franchise Development Manager RIMTYME - Houma, LA March 2010 to May 2012 Coordinate and direct activities of businesses or departments concerned with production, pricing, sales, and the distribution of products and services.  ? Determine staffing requirements needed for successful plant operation.  ? Oversee personnel processes.  ? Hire, and provide training for new employees.  ? Provide staff management by preparing work schedules and the assignment of specific essential job duties.  ? Review financial statements and data, sales and activity reports, and other performance data to determine productivity and goal achievements.  ? Determine and implement cost reduction and program improvement.  ? Plan, coordinate, and implement activities in regards to sales promotions with other departmental heads.  ? Determine the goods and services to be sold, and set prices and credit terms based on forecasts of customer demand.  ? Represent company management in purchasing negotiations to locate, select, and procure merchandise for resale.  ? Perform sales floor tasks such as greeting, assisting customers, stocking shelves, conducting inventories.  ? Develop and implement product-marketing strategies to include: advertising campaigns and sales promotions.  ? Provide recommendations for new facilities and oversee remodeling or the renovation of current facilities.  ? Plan store layouts or design displays.    General  Divisional Manager  Glenn's ? Guntersville, AL  ? Oversee all activities and processes related to making products and the provision of services.  ? Coordinate and direct activities of businesses or departments concerned with production, pricing, sales, and the distribution of products and services.  ? Review financial statements and data, sales and activity reports, and other performance data to determine productivity and goal achievements.  ? Determine the goods and services to be sold, and set prices and credit terms based on forecasts of customer demand.  ? Provide staff management by preparing work schedules and the assignment of specific essential job duties.  ? Perform sales floor tasks such as greeting, assisting customers, stocking shelves, conducting inventories.  ? Plan store layouts or design displays. Education Associate of Science in Computer Science and Technology Gadsden State Ayers Campus - Oxford, AL May 2018 to Present Associate in Business Management and Administration Snead State Community College - Boaz, AL September 2003 to May 2005 High School Diploma in HSD Guntersville High School - Guntersville, AL August 1999 to May 2003 Skills Management (6 years), Microsoft Office (5 years), Production Management (3 years), Quality Control (6 years), Account Management (3 years), Maintenance (4 years), Accounting (10+ years), Training & Development (10+ years), Auditing (3 years), Sales (5 years), Community Outreach (2 years), Process Improvement (2 years), Process Development (2 years), System Administrator