Systems Support Specialist (SSS) <span class="hl">Systems</span> Support Specialist (SSS) Systems Support Specialist (SSS) - Randstad/Fortune 500 Insurance Company El Paso, IL Experienced, confident team lead with extensive knowledge and confidence in working with the public. This includes customer support, collaboration environments, public speaking, and project and program teams. I am highly personable, with excellent oral and written communication skills. Proficient at multi-tasking, prioritization, working in a fast-paced environment, and adapting to new job roles. I have a great reputation in going above and beyond for our customers, and I am often pulled in as a liaison where there are communication issues with our business partners, providing them with solutions they are happy with while still adhering to our company's policies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Support Specialist (SSS) Randstad/Fortune 500 Insurance Company - Bloomington, IL April 2013 to Present Randstad/Fortune 500 Insurance Company  Systems Support Specialist (SSS) with the Center of Excellence (CoE).  4/2013 – present     Current role: SSS Safari Licensing Manager/Lender Relations - Auto  ? I handle all requests that come in for Safari, a learning tool offered to internal employees. I confirm learning needs, and determine the best route of education for each requestor. I troubleshoot issues with active and inactive users, and provide continual updates to the Enterprise Learning Department so we can analyze the need/cost of software licenses.  ? I handle all auto account changes for the Lender Relations team. I work with underwriting and agent offices to validate policy information and make changes in Rumba. I build new accounts, make changes to current accounts, and do internet research to validate information on the accounts.      Prior Role: SSS Resource Management Team Lead (Primavera)  • Team Lead for Resource Management in Primavera, a sub-team of the Organizational Support Services Center of Excellence (CoE).   • Our Resource Management team was created to replace the work that dedicated Project Planners did in Primavera. Our team was responsible for the allocations of all Systems employees, including Primavera time sheet management, project schedule adjustments and closings, and project reporting.  • My Primavera experience includes creating/sharing layouts, creating customized reports for projects, and reconciling Primavera allocations to People Allocation Request forms in Lotus Notes. Adding and closing out new resources, creating project milestones and complete project closings.  • As the lead, I focused on resolution of issues with our business partners, while providing the team with support and guidance. I facilitated weekly and impromptu meetings as we continually looked for ways to improve services that we offered our customers. I am adept in conflict resolution, and spent the bulk of my time tracking down the main root of issues and working with the customer one-on-one via email or phone to identify and fix problems within their project schedules. I am known for following process and encouraged my team to provide great customer service while staying in the parameters of our defined role.   Additional Support Specialist duties performed within the SSS Center of Excellence:     Communication:  ? I composed Business Decision Documents, providing several researched solutions to an issue, including pros and cons to each one. I suggested the optimal solution and presented it to the project team for review/feedback/approval.   ? I have written Executive Summary Documents, presenting the need for a change in a process or workflow (or creation of a new one), and outlined the implementation of a new, improved, process.  ? I provided design and decision document editing for Enterprise Datacenter Design’s Architect team to ensure quality formatting and proper communication.  ? I have created email templates for mass communication purposes.  ? I have collaborated with the Customer Communications team in updating their “Standards” Guide for communications standards according to the AP Style Book and legal requirements.     Planning:  ? I have worked on projects creating T Minus schedules for deadlines, including a plan of action for obtaining deliverables from team members. I was often the first level of contact with resources who had issues meeting their milestones, and offered my assistance in helping them produce their work by the due date. I did this by taking on the administrative tasks and helping to drive the work, allowing them to focus more specifically on their goals.   ? I have helped organize large (100+) function meetings and events by identifying individuals and teams with the necessary skills to carry out such events. My duties included everything from creating the Power Point presentations, gathering agenda items, reservations and meeting invitations to ordering equipment and food. I facilitated “practice runs”, where we tested the technology, and meeting flow.     Technical:  ? While working in Datacenter Design, I completely restructured our program’s on-boarding process. After research and meeting with other programs, I assisted in creating a SharePoint page dedicated solely to bringing people into our environment and ensuring the process ran smoothly.   ? I worked with our Migration Office in creating and tracking communications and surveys from all of our application owners to ensure that they have everything necessary to migrate their application to the new data centers.   ? I ran the routing/approval process of all technical decision documents using SharePoint. I lead the updating of our program’s current process for this by creating a traceable workflow and then training one resource/backup to handle the entire process     Administrative:   ? Meeting minutes  ? Creating spreadsheets in Excel  ? Monitoring multiple Outlook inboxes  ? Creating organizational and flow charts with Visio  ? Scheduling team meetings with Outlook; agenda solicitation and preparation  ? Maintaining team calendars and room reservations.  ? Processing large print orders  ? Ordering /reserving equipment  ? Running large meetings/presentations  ? Assist planners in creating resource requests   ? Risk, Issue and Dependency reports  ? Created and maintained our program’s distribution lists  ? I maintained our program’s confidentiality guidelines for all members and associates and track all agreements and responses. Administrative Coordinator Randstad/Fortune 500 Insurance Company - Bloomington, IL April 2012 to April 2013 Ad Services/Ordering and Scheduling  4/2012-4/2013  * Gather information from MIND, ENIC and AMT databases to verify and update agent inventories.  * Communicate with external vendors to coordinate installers/technicians to replace equipment in agent offices, and work with Agencies (via phone and electronic communications) to secure dates and times for installers to complete their equipment upgrades/replacements.  * Create schedules and spreadsheets in Excel, Asteroid and Service Manager to order replacement equipment in accordance with our current project as well as resolving inventory discrepancies.  * Actively utilize the following software and tools: Outlook, Word, Excel, Asteroid, Service Manager, Asset Manager, ENIC, MIND, and Lotus Notes. Able to access SharePoint for client specific documentation. Office Administrator Oak Street Wholesale - Minonk, IL 2011 to 2012 inputting orders, customer sales and purchase orders, as well as invoicing and credit memos.  * In charge of shipping and tracking UPS orders, setting up all freight shipments, and email correspondence with our customers, suppliers, and retailers. I would also troubleshoot issues with customers who were experiencing difficulties on our website through remote access.  * I utilized MS Office, Excel, Intuit Quick Books, Ship Gear, and UPS Worldship in my daily operations.  • My main objective was to see that customers get their product on time and at the lowest cost to them, by comparing shippers and grouping merchandise on their orders. I worked one-on-one with businesses concerning damages and/or shipping claims and have a great deal of experience in resolving issues with dissatisfied customers Office Manager England Window and Door, LLC 2010 to 2011 * I served as an Office Manager of a privately owned window and door installation company, where my responsibilities included, but were not limited to: customer relations, accounting, filing, billing, scheduling, book keeping, writing proposals and contracts, and general office duties.  * I utilized office machinery such as computers, fax machines, scanners, copiers, multi-line phone systems, and credit card machines.  * I was fully responsible for keeping the office running smoothly and dealing with customers and suppliers in a prompt and courteous manner. Education Associate Associate in Communications Illinois Central College - East Peoria, IL Skills LOTUS NOTES, MICROSOFT OFFICE, SHAREPOINT, PRIMAVERA, RUMBA, TRAINING, Customer Support, Customer Service, Call Center, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Data Entry, Direct Support, CSR