Embedded Engineer Embedded Engineer Embedded Engineer - Office depot, bocaraton, FL Chicago, IL • 5 years of experience in Installation, Configuration, Management of Linux OS (RHEL, CentOS, Ubuntu), Amazon Web Services, DevOps, Windows Servers in an Agile environment.  • Worked in infrastructure team on installation, configuration and administration of CentOS 5.x/6.x/7, Red Hat Linux 8/9, RHEL 5.x/6.x/7, Red Hat Satellite 6, Windows Server and SUSE Linux 10.x/11.  • Experience in System Administration, System Builds, Server builds, Installs, Upgrades, Patches, Migration, Troubleshooting, Security, Backup, Disaster Recovery, Performance Monitoring and Fine-tuning on UNIX Red Hat Linux Systems.  • Experienced in Cloud automation using AWS Cloud Formation templates, Python, Ruby, Chef (DevOps), Puppet (DevOps) and Vagrant.  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of VMware VSphere4, ESXI, VMware View, vCenter Server, Host Clustering with HA, DRS, Replication Manager 5.x/6.0, Site Recovery Manager, VMotion, Physical to Virtual Migration and Managing SAN Data stores with, iSCSI, NFS & FC.  • Worked with VMware Orchestrator, VMware realize Automation 6.0 (vRA), catalog management, creating cloud server provisioning entitlements, creating and defining business groups, creating catalogue items, creating services for the catalogue items, creating Windows and Linux (Red Hat6) blueprints.  • Experience in Installing, upgrading and configuring Red Hat Linux 4.x, 5.x, and 6.x using Kick start Servers.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins/Hudson/Teamcity/Ansible/Bamboo/Docker by installing, configuring and maintaining for the purpose of continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Experience in development and configuration experience with software provisioning tools like Chef, Puppet and Ansible.  • Expertise in configuring and managing services like AWS EC2 using AMI's available. Configured multiple servers depending on application needs using continuous integration tools like Jenkins.  • Experience working on configuration management in Linux using Puppet there by developing Puppet Manifests using RUBY for provisioning applications and scripts.  • Expertise in using build tools like MAVEN and ANT for the building of deployable artifacts such as war & ear from source code.  • Experience in Branching, Merging, Tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like Subversion (SVN), GIT (GitHub, GitLab), Clear case, Harvest and VSS.  • Designing the entire cycle of application development by using Docker.  • Wrote custom monitoring and integrated monitoring methods into deployment processes to develop self-healing solutions using Nagios, Graphite and Zabbix etc.  • Implanted continuous integration concepts using Hudson, Cruise Control, Jenkins and AnthillPro.  • Installed and configured monitoring tools such as Nagios, Splunk, SiteScope for monitoring the network bandwidth and the hard drives status.  • Conduct systems design, feasibility & cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions like Amazon Web Services (AWS) and experience with Perforce, Subversion and CVS.  • Involved in handling Tickets, Monitoring, Troubleshooting and maintenance for Day to day Activities.  • Management of library versions and deprecated code, Design and sequencing of automated builds & test runs and Troubleshooting expertise - build failures due to dependencies, tests, etc  • Good Interpersonal Skills, team-working attitude, takes initiatives and very proactive in solving problems and providing best solutions. Work Experience Embedded Engineer Office depot, bocaraton, FL January 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • projects of D6CX, A6N2, T6R7, T5R1 platform with Linux OS  • Developed HAL software library in userspace of the three platforms to provide public interfaces to customers; the HAL library is to provide public interfaces to application customers; it consists of hal_pulsei, hal_pulseo, hal_boot, hal_rtc, hal_nvm, hal_lcd modules and so on;  • Implemented DESIP line discipline of Linux kernel which is responsible to communicate between application processor(Atom) and power management processor(rh850) of the D6CX, A6N2 platforms using sysfs of Linux kernel following Delphi's rh850 document;  • Implemented PWM input extreme signal detection project in kernel including determining a variety of situations such as stg, stb, overflow, active/inactive in specific mode;  • Optimized boot up timing of D6CX platform by changing scripts in /etc/init.d, and used grabserial to verify optimization result;  • Changed LCD resume, suspend behaviro of its driver, and write hal_lcd apps to enable/disable LCD after waking up from sleep mode;  • Added hal_lcd api to set landscape or portait mode of splash screen;  • Maintain HAL and DESIP modules including updating, fixing, debugging the codes of the three platforms;  • Fixed t6r7 uboot temperature threshold issue of t6r7 uboot  • Solved rtc, mtd, desip driver issues which is reported by customers in Linux kernel using function generator, Oscilloscope;  • Conducted integration tests of hal_modules of every software iteration release;  • Helped Delphi's engineers to fix their rtc issues by i2cdump tools, and desip messages System Engineer JetBlue Airways, NY July 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Creation and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in RedHat Linux. Created users, manage user permissions; maintain User & File System quota on Redhat Linux.  • Performed Linux administration tasks in test and production environments with Installing, configuring and troubleshooting the client applications on the UNIX servers.  • Create, deploy and manage Linux and windows VMware using Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization Manager, which includes moving and migrating VMware from one cluster to another cluster or within the same cluster.  • Administered Linux servers for several functions including managing Apache/Tomcat server, mail server and MySQL databases in both development and production.  • Configured and managed Jump Start Server on Solaris and Kick Start Server on Linux.  • Worked with adding DNS entries to their DNS servers for virtual servers that was being created for certain projects. Installed, setup and configured Virtual Machines (VMs) matching the project requirements.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds.  • Implemented the monitoring tools like Nagios 3.0 to monitor services like CPU, Hard Drive, Memory, Users, HTTP and SSH etc.  • Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Knowledge of Chef as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Implemented and administered VMware ESX 3.x for running the Windows OS on Redhat Linux Servers on development and test servers.  • Responsible in managing all aspects of the software configuration management process including code compilation, packaging, deployment, release methodology and application configurations.  • Involved in installing subversion version control and creating and administering repositories.  • Work with the various agile development teams to standardize branching and tagging of code in our TFS repository and maintain code base integrity.  • Manage and maintain TFS server. Customize Work Items, Process Templates, Build Definition Templates and TFS Reports. Designing, creating and maintaining GIT repositories to client specifications.  • Involved in taking the weekly backups of the repositories and managing the repositories  • Engaged in managing daily builds, configuration, and environment maintenance across multiple test and production environments in an Agile sprint lifecycle.  • Bash shell-scripts to automate routine activities and Monitored trouble ticket queue to attend user and system calls.  • Troubleshooting issues on RHEL servers and worked on user request (LAN ID requests) and performance issues.  • Attended team meetings, change control meetings to update installation progress, and for upcoming changes in environment.  Environment: RedHat Linux, Git, TFS, VMware, Agile, Jenkins, Nagios, VMware ESX 3.x, Apache/Tomcat, Bash scripting, Ant, Maven. Systems Administrator GlaxoSmithKline - Philadelphia, PA February 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked in a huge enterprise environment with 250+ Solaris servers.  • Experienced in the installation, support, configuration and maintenance of Sun Servers/workstations.  • Installing, upgrading and configuring Solaris 9, 10, AIX 5/6, Red hat Enterprise Linux 4, 5.1  • Worked with MySQL database installations and configurations.  • Experience supporting EMC Arrays like VNX, Clarions and VMAX arrays.  • Worked in 24/7 support environment for network and systems support.  • Experience in scripting. Implemented shell and Perl scripts for log rotation and monitoring.  • Utilization and Implementation of VMware at the full implementation range using the complex features of VMware connectivity with SAN, HA and DRS configuration. Worked on V-motion in VMware.  • Installing and Configuring nodes on a VERITAS Cluster in a SAN environment, adding VCS agents for Oracle, Sybase, troubleshooting fail over issues , resource management  • Worked in deploying Linux and Windows virtual machines in VMware. The implementation involves SAN connectivity with VMware.  • Performed multiple Linux kick start installation both on VMware and physical servers  • Configured and distributed virtual machines on different hosts and configured v-motion. Performed template installations.  • Performing p2v migrations in Windows and Linux OS. Embedded Engineer BBT - Toronto, ON June 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • CSIM(Control and Switch Interface Module) board of WiMAX's BTS based on MPC8270 and VxWorks  • Developed BSP software for CSIM board of WiMAX's BTS(Base Transceiver Station) which works with VxWorks operation system involving developing bootloader, implementing interrupt controller driver, timer driver, managing memory controller, managing MMU table, managing cache controller, conducting verification test and so on * Implemented two 100M Ethernet network drivers one of which is connected with AGW, the other for debugging  • Implemented communication among boards based on a protocol defined by ourselves of data link layer using RS485 bus  • Ported UART serial driver, implemented nor flash driver and added corresponding function  • Conducted Integration test of BSP, device drivers of Ethernet driver, and serial port driver  • Tested downlink/uplink throughput using test tools, solved severe exceptions resulting from hardware, array access violation and so on • Projects based on TMS320TCI6482 platform and C language  • Conducted the downlink transmitting beamforming project of physical layer of WiMAX involving programming uplink weight estimation by decomposing the covariance matrix and downlink weight multiplication, testing the weight vector validity using channel emulator and so on; at the same time, conducted integration test, and validation;  • Designed test vector to estimate and optimize every module's processing cycles; analyzed and optimized codes to implement downlink beamforming function  • Implemented channel estimation algorithm, channel equalization algorithm, CINR estimation algorithm on uplink OFDM receiver; conducted integration test, and validation.  • Designed and implemented diversity SNR report function, which can help RF colleagues to debug malfunctions; conducted integration test, and validation.  • Conducted Integration test after the module of downlink transmitting beamforming(a special form of MIMO) merged into whole downlink software  • Conducted the performance test of the uplink receiver, analysed the BER vs CINR curve, and found out the reason of unusual phenomena  • Solved severe troubles of DSP exceptions resulting from array access violation, limitation of DSP's processing ability Skills SOLARIS (2 years), AIX (2 years), ORACLE (2 years), PERL (2 years), SUN (2 years), VERITAS (2 years), ETHERNET (1 year) Additional Information Operating Systems: RHEL 3/4/5/6, Solaris Release [ ] IBM-AIX 5.X, Windows 98, Windows 2000 and NT.    Hardware: HP Proliant, Blade servers, Sun Servers E450, E3500, E4500, E5000, E6500, E10k, E15k, E25k, Sun Ultra's, V210, V280, V490, V880, V6800 SUN Ray (1g Ultra Thin Client) SUN Desktops (SPARC 10, 5), DMX3 and DMX4 Storage Arrays, F5.  Software: Veritas Volume Manager 3.5/4/5, Veritas File System, Veritas Cluster Server 3.5, Veritas Netbackup 6.0, MS-Office/MS-Project.  Web/ Application Server: Tomcat, Apache DB2, Oracle.  Network Protocols: DHCP, DIG, DNS, SNMP, SMTP, Ethernet, IOS, netstat, NFS, NIS, nslookup, RIP, OSPF, BGP, TCP/IP, and tcpdump..  Cluster Environment: Sun Cluster Servers 2.2, 3.1, 3.2 and VERITAS Cluster Servers 4.1.  Programming Languages: C, SQL, HTML, PHP, XML, Perl and Shell Programming, JSP, Python