Exchange Server Administrator, Senior Consultant Exchange Server <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Senior Consultant Exchange Server Administrator, Senior Consultant - Booz Allen Hamilton Arlington, VA Experienced and rounded IT professional seeking a dynamic environment to utilize, challenge, and gain skills  while providing the assets for the team and company to accomplish their goals effectively. Work Experience Exchange Server Administrator, Senior Consultant Booz Allen Hamilton - McLean, VA August 2016 to Present Ø Responsible to the configuration and day to day administration of the entire Exchange 2010, 2016, and Exchange Online environment for the firm.  Ø Tasked with coming up with new and unique ways to tailor the Office365 suite to best suit our users.  Ø Managed and planned migration of 20,000+ mailboxes from Exchange 2010 on-prem to Exchange  Online.  Ø Maintained updates and security patches on all Exchange servers as needed.  Ø Responsible for tier 3 support as it pertains to the environment.  Ø Managed and leveraged Splunk to monitor environment.  Ø Worked with a team of Engineers to schedule, plan, and complete tasks on deadline. Systems Engineer SyCom Technologies - Richmond, VA May 2011 to August 2016 Ø Carried out infrastructure related tasks for large and enterprise businesses customers, including:  Windows server deployment and maintenance, Exchange and Office 365 deployments and migrations, network planning and configuration, security and performance analysis, presales, and tier 3 support.  Ø Worked with a team of account managers, project managers, engineers, and support analysts to custom  tailor IT solutions to customer demands.  Ø Utilized Auto Task IT Business Management platform to manage customer accounts and tickets and compile, document, and share information between team members. CNU Sports - Newport News, VA July 2013 to May 2015 Video and Content Producer  Ø Responsible for setting up, producing and packing live video streaming and video productions for all  sporting events.  Ø Directed and managed a team of producers to edit and generate content on a strict deadline. IT Intern Velocity Micro - Chesterfield, VA January 2011 to May 2011 Ø Assembled custom computer builds and other consumer electronic products.  Ø Fulfilled quality assurance auditing on computers and electronic products. Customer Service / Technician ABEC Electronics - Midlothian, VA June 2010 to September 2010 Ø Handled point of sales and technical support for consumers and consumer electronics.  Ø Repaired TVs, Computers, and other electronic products. Education Information Systems Christopher Newport University - Newport News, VA August 2011 to May 2015 Chesterfield Technical Center - Chesterfield, VA September 2009 to June 2011 Cisco Networking Academy Skills Exchange, Scripting, Active directory, Cisco, Firewalls, Vmware, Hyper-v, Microsoft office, Windows server 2003, Correspondence, Punctual, Team player, System Administrator, Powershell, System Admin Additional Information Technical Skills Workplace Skills  Ø Setup and maintain Windows Server 2003/8/12/16 Ø Proficient use of Microsoft Office Suite  Environments Ø Knowledge of business correspondence  Ø Manage and navigate Active Directory formatting  Ø Setup and manage Hyper-V and VMWare ESXi Ø Punctual/excellent attendance  Environments Ø Excellent listening skills  Ø Setup and manage Exchange/O365 Environments Ø Enthusiastic team player  Ø PowerShell Scripting Ø Self-motivated learner  Ø Configure Cisco Routers, Switches, and ASAs Ø Able to learn on the fly and adapt to  Ø Deploy and configure Barracuda firewalls situations