IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Manager Sherwood, OR When there is a solution presented or conceptualized you can count on me to jump in and start removing road blocks. I will look for ways to get the project started and with the right people. Communication is key if you want to accomplish goals.  I have the ability to communicate at all levels building trust, understanding and relationships with those around me. I like to be around others with fun personalities, you are serious but you know when to joke around. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems Administrator Astronics - Clackamas, OR October 2017 to Present • SCCM  • JIRA  • Hyper-V Cluster  • Dell Compellent Storage  • Aruba/HP Networking    Accomplishments:  • Building out a Clustered and multi-tiered Solidworks 2018 Client/Server system using the Solidworks 2018 PDM.  • Building out New Clustered Servers to host HA Hyper-V Clustered VM's.  • Building out an entire Atlassian Suite System with JIRA, CORE, Bitbucket and more  • Building out a Bugzilla Server system.  • Building out GitHub  • Building out a copy of "a Production installation of Infor Syteline 9", click by click.  • Building License Servers  • Building out SCCM to update all Windows 10 Operating Systems to Build number 1809  • Building out a Windows Deployment System to fast track new installs of Client PC's  • Setting up a Wireless network on NIST 800-171 802.1x Protocols k, r & port security    Using Dell Technologies to build out clusters, storage manager on compellent systems and Server 2019. Within I manage Hyper-V, SCCM, WSUS, WDS, ESET, ERP among other technologies. We use O365 Enterprise with voice, I handle all setups within Active Directory Directory Services, Exchange and Skype for Business. I work with Watchguard firewalls, I have replaced and added to the firebox many times along with patching and firmware updates. We have 300-400 Computers onsite including 50+ servers and the number grows every week. I do the standard Server room duty's as well, racking, re-configuring, logging into remote controllers and configuring IP address, modern broadcast domains, VLANs and minimal switch configurations. Using Active Directory OU's to manage devices and to maintain security principals are daily duty's as well. IT Systems Administrator Museum Tour Catalog November 2014 to Present Accomplishments:  -Gained high percentage rates and PPC through Google analytics. Used Ad Words to create compelling Ad verts to increase sales through omni channels.  -Mitigated threats by being active within and monitoring networks.  -Had success understanding new types of software and ERP systems never used.    Day to day operations, using skills that involved critical thinking to mitigate applications/servers down time. Security minded and worked with internal employees to understand risk and threat management. Worked with board members, owner and vendors to provide insight into solutions that provide the company with opportunity. Worked on investigation of issues break/fix, Active Directory, setting security and managing security through group policy, making sure each computer object was in the correct OU for security delegation. Excellent communication through out the company to provide the best resolution on maintenance and issues.    Equipment and Software Used:    ? IT (DELL VRTX, Nodes, Server 2012, Clustered System HA, VM Domain, AD - 18 Servers 80 Desktops)  ? Administration and deployment of Microsoft Servers 2008/2012 R2  ? Microsoft information services IIS 6-8  ? Microsoft Windows technical help desk  ? Network administrator multi virtual LAN, Wireless, Domain, Office 365 + Hybrid Exchange, Vlans firewall policy and MAC address restrictions Appliances, Watchguard, Cisco, Dell layer3 switches  ? Marketing needs (Build email templates, graphics)  ? Marketing vendors (Middleware installation and services, production cases, PCI-DSS, MSSQL, AdWords, Google Analytics)  ? Web Design (Front-End, Order Confirmation, BO, Abandon cart, SEO, SEM) Web Consultant Media/Web Director Pacific Empire Radio Corp January 2012 to November 2013 Accomplishments:  -Town hall type meetings to gain position and understanding on the community and what a digital project being built would mean to them.  -Built a large scale internet system for communities to advertise and interact.    Position required to be highly focused project management based and attention to detail. I worked with radio market management to design and construct a community web portal based on the marketing needs of the radio stations clients.  ? Configured servers, worked in IIS and managed databases and code for the projects.  ? Held round table discussions and focus groups to elevate ideas for the project based on needs of a community and not just the radio station.  ? Taking ownership of issues in pursuit of resolutions  ? I would also travel to fund raiser board meetings as the technical supervisor.  Equipment and Software Used:  ? Server 2008 R2, DNS, VPN, RD Services, SQL Management  ? Web and portal design in DNN Software  ? Microsoft Server 2008 R2  ? Microsoft Information Services IIS 7.5 + Exchange Server  ? Microsoft SQL RTM 2008 R2  ? Agile method of site building and upgrades  ? Building a (SaaS) community web portals driven by radio  ? Technical support IT Interactive Director New Northwest Broadcasters October 2009 to January 2012 I took this on as a Systems Administrator but I defined it more as a Project Management position, I had a new internal hosted web system operational within 4 months and all 36 websites were rebuilt on a new framework, which took excellent analytical skills to employ problem solving techniques under various constraints and deadlines. Saving the company nearly $74,000 in the first year of service.  ? Lead a team of 8 to prioritize and focus on digital media and marketing  ? Held internal training sessions in person, 1 on 1 and conference calls  ? Provided Technical Support on all designs, capabilities and web maintenance  ? Presented operational data to stakeholders, vendors and other marketing managers  Equipment and Software Used:  ? Microsoft Windows Server 2008 R2  ? Microsoft SQL RTM 2008 R2 / DB backup & internal version system  ? Network engineer  ? Internal SOHO wireless AP installation and security awareness  ? Agile method of site building and upgrades  ? Email systems, News Letters, Digital Music Stations  ? Web design, mock-up, prototype and storyboard, TV commercials Education Computer Science Microsoft Class room April 2005 to August 2007 Computer Science Community College - Oceanside California 1998 to 2000 Diploma - yes in Art/Music/CAD High School Skills Configuring wireless Access Points (10+ years), Database Installation/Configure MS SQL, MySQL (10+ years), IIS and Apache (For Windows) (10+ years), Systems Integration (10+ years), SQL Management, Backup, Recovery (10+ years), Computer Hardware (10+ years), ERP and CRM Management (5 years), PCI-DSS (3 years), Software Installation and Management (10+ years), Windows Systems Administration (10+ years), Windows Xp, Vista, 7, 8.1, 10 (10+ years), Microsoft Office 2000,2007, 2013, 2016, 365 Pro (10+ years), Virtualization, VM, Hyper-V, VMWare (10+ years), Networking, VPN, AP, WiFi, Mesh, P to P, Dish, Satellite (10+ years), DELL VRTX blade server and chassis management CMC (3 years), Natural Gas and Oil - SCADA administration, Web SCADA, Communications (6 years), System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Active Directory, Linux, SCCM, JIRA (2 years), Dell Compellent Storage Manager (2 years), Dell Servers (6 years), Microsoft SCCM Management (2 years), Microsoft ATP (Less than 1 year), Solidworks PDM 2018 management (2 years), Jira User (2 years), Jira Management (Less than 1 year), Clustered Hyper-V (4 years), Switches and Networking (10+ years), System Center Data Protection Manager (DPM) (2 years), Raspberry Pi (Configuration and setup) (2 years), IoT Devices (4 years), Linux Administrator, Redhat Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional Network+ Certification Microsoft MTA Certified MS Virtual Academy - Database Fundamentals August 2014 to Present MS Virtual Academy - Active Directory Fundamentals July 2014 to Present CISSP Training February 2018 to May 2018 I studied the CISSP training complete Groups JDA Ecometry Users Group - ERP System Management (Ecometry) November 2014 to Present Additional Information SOCIAL SOFT SKILLS:  • Dependability  • Calm under pressure  • Leadership  • Positive  • Communication skills  • Company, Personal and Task Loyalty  • Ability to work with a team  • Good work ethic    TECHNICAL SOFT SKILLS:  • Creativity  • Client Awareness  • Understanding of others technical aptitude  • Can adapt to all situations    HARD SKILLS:  • ITIL, NIST, SOX, 802.1x, JIRA Installation and User  • Microsoft Server 2008, 2012, 2016, Hyper-V, Virtualization, Forest Level, AD DS, PowerShell, Roles  • Bugzilla, Raspberry Pi, Retro Pi, DPM, SCCM, ESET, WG SSLVPN  • Using SQL agent to schedule Database backups and restoring, from on or off site data sets  • Computer system building and repair, malware and antivirus knowledge  • SFTP, SSH, VPN, TELNET, AWS, IIS, APACHE, RD Gateway Services, SSL, Hyper-V Cluster Manager  • NAS, Clustered Shared Drives, Mounting Directories, File Systems: FAT32, NTFS, ReFS  • WiFi Camera Systems, WiFi, AP, Layer2/3 Switches, OSI model, Networking, Cat5,5e, 6  • MySQL, MSSQL, WDS, Labtech Monitoring, Watchguard Firewall appliance, Patching  • HTML5, CSS3, SEO, SEM, SVG, PS, Coding, Notepad++