Sr. Systems Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Systems Administrator - Regenerative Medicine Solutions Charleston, IL Obtain a challenging leadership position applying creative problem solving and lean management skills with a company to achieve optimum utilization of it's resources, maximize profits, and ensuring continuing efficiency. Work Experience Sr. Systems Administrator Regenerative Medicine Solutions - Tampa, FL May 2015 to Present • Manager of I.T. Helpdesk  * Troubleshoot and provide company-wide support at corporate location as well as remote access to clinic locations across the country to resolve any I.T. related problems  • Zoho CRM Administrator  * Gather, identify, and analyze CRM software requirements and ensure they are met  * Assist in creation of long-term strategic goals for high data quality and appropriate data use  * Evaluate and configure CRM system, and provide detailed end user documentation  • Ring Central and InContact Phone Systems Administrator  * Manage and troubleshoot phone systems internally as well as contact center  * Project Manager in implementing contact center including the porting of numbers and providing the appropriate call queue scripting for maximum efficiency of call routing to appropriate agents to maximize sales potential, as well as, detailed, accurate reporting for data analysts  * Provide technical support to end users, diagnosing and resolving problems  • Microsoft 365 Administrator  * Access and manage all administrative features  * Exchange, User Management, Password, SharePoint, Compliance, Service, Billing, and Skype for Business  * Purchasing of domains, SSL Certificates, and adding to Microsoft 365 for email hosting Accounting Assistant Jilek Accounting and Consulting - Herrin, IL January 2015 to March 2015 * Assist with payroll and taxes under CPA supervision  * Maintained up-to-date rules and regulations on old and new tax laws to perform job duties and keep CPA updated Intern Regenerative Medicine Solutions - Tampa, FL December 2014 to January 2015 Worked with sales and marketing teams implementing new Customer Relationship Software (Zoho) General Laborer Southern Illinois University - Carbondale, IL June 2014 to December 2014 Performed upkeep and managed ground crew for campus maintenance Turbine Operator Southern Illinois Power Cooperative - Marion, IL August 2006 to May 2011 Controlled steam-driven turbongenerators in electric power station. Signaled Auxiliary-Equipment Operator to start turbines and boiler auxiliary units. Adjusted throttle and vacuum-breaker valve to engage governor that regulates speed of turbines and notified switchboard operator that turbine-driven generators can be synchronized with auxiliary units. Monitored panelboard to control operations of turbines to detect equipment malfunctions. Stopped turbines when malfunctions occurred, following operating instructions. Recorded instrument readings at specified intervals. Performed minor maintenance to equipment as needed or instructed maintenance personnel Education Bachelor in Business Management in Business Management Southern Illinois University - Carbondale, IL December 2014 Associate in Applied Science in Applied Science Rend Lake Community College - Ina, IL May 2004