Broker Broker Springfield, MO Work Experience Broker My Double Edged - Springfield, MO May 2019 to Present My Double Edged is a fulfillment company that brokers deals with time-share owners to get them out of their time-share, list their property for sale on the secondary market, or provide relief with high maintenance fees. We provide a legitimate service that our clients appreciate due to the unscrupulous nature of the time-share industry. Executive Account Manager - West Coast AT&T/Protel Solutions LLC - Springfield, MO January 2019 to May 2019 Official title listed as Executive Account Manager for AT&T. Contracted through a company called ProTel Solutions, LLC. Managed 560 AT&T Business customers that were specifically assigned to me, all located on the West Coast and mainly the Greater Los Angeles area. Authorized and managed all AT&T lines of business, including fiber, VOIP services, mobility/wireless product, analog lines, etc. Inbound Sales Representative HughesNET/ CSLLC - Springfield, MO July 2018 to August 2018 Handle inbound calls from prospective customers regarding HughesNET satellite internet service, and my commission was based on the percentage of calls I took that resulted in a sale. My professional experience and education in IT provided me with a very strong understanding of the technology. Insurance Agent/MSR TeleTech - Springfield, MO February 2017 to December 2017 Licensed insurance agent for 17 states including Missouri. Issued new insurance policies for Auto and Property. Adjusted policies for policy holders, including re-basing policies from one state to a different state. Assisted with billing questions, concerns, and payments. Systems Administrator I JMARK Business Solutions, Inc. October 2012 to December 2016 Over 4 years experience working for an MSP in a high-level tech support environment. Multi-tasked maintaining and upgrading computer systems for a variety of businesses. Provided assistance with a wide range of IT issues such as troubleshooting offline servers and workstations. Made additions and changes to Active Directory, Exchange and Office 365 for users. Installed and troubleshooted Cisco and Sonicwall VPN clients for remote users. Ran monthly tests of Backups (VEEAM, Datto, Unitrends, etc). Upgraded and installed various line-of-business software specific to each business. Network + Certified, Windows 8.1 70-687 Certified, and Windows Server 2012 R2 70-410 Certified. Education Associate of Arts Degree in GEN ED - Transfer Degree OTC - Springfield, MO August 2007 to December 2010 Skills Microsoft Word, Excel, Powerpoint, and Access (10+ years), Missouri Property and Casualty Insurance license (1 year), KASEYA (6 years), Connectwise (5 years), Desktop Support, Computer Repair, Comptia, Customer Service, Upselling, Call Center, Selling, Certification, Pc Support, Help Desk, Tech Support, Active Directory, Service Desk, Data Entry, Account Management, Salesforce, Sales, Cold Calling, MS Office, Outlook, Business Development Certifications/Licenses 70-687 Microsoft 8.1 Certification Present CompTIA Network+ Present Property and Casualty License for MIssouri March 2017 to March 2019 Property and Casualty Insurance License for State of Missouri. Also licensed for 16 other states including Florida, California, Texas, and several other highly populated states. Assessments Sales Skills: Influence & Negotiation — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively use influence and negotiation techniques to engage with and persuade customers. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ee-uohg3sztioqnm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.