Mortgage Systems Administrator Mortgage <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Mortgage Systems Administrator - First Community Credit Union Cypress, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mortgage Systems Administrator First Community Credit Union June 2018 to Present Maintain mortgage systems users, roles, profiles, security settings, and loan access settings.  ? Perform system analysis and simulation testing to determine potential impact of deploying  proposed system changes  ? Create and maintain business rules for data entry, workflow progression and regulatory  compliance.  ? Maintain the Encompass loan document generation library, including building custom documents  as needed and maintaining eFolder settings.  ? Stay apprised of Ellie Mae published system administration guidelines and best practices to optimize system performance.  ? Design and document changes and enhancements to system functionality.  ? Build custom input forms to reflect company needs and improve workflow efficiency while remaining consistent with regulatory guidelines  ? Analyze data flows for process improvement opportunities.  ? Complete troubleshooting of all Real Estate computer applications and systems as needed.  ? Submit functional and technical specifications, change requests, and test plans to IT.  ? Develop and update user procedures, guidelines and documentation.  ? Collaborate with training department to provide employee and new hire Encompass training.  ? Verify accuracy and generation of quality reports, and auditing, including, but not limited to,  HMDA, User Profile Settings, Weekly Pipeline, and Monthly Board Reports  ? Manage and administer integrated applications and systems, such as WebCenter Administration  (POS), Encompass Products & Pricing System (EPPS), Encompass Customer Relationship  Management (CRM) System  ? Assistance in the integration of FICS Mortgage Servicing (MS) System  ? Responsible for implementation and administration of new Point of Sale Encompass Consumer  Connect Group Fitness Instructor LA Fitness June 2017 to Present Create a fun, energetic environment to guide patrons through group fitness sessions  ? Produce unique choreography and musical playlists for cycling/spin and AquaFit/Water Aerobics  classes Licensing Analyst Nations Reliable Lending, LLC April 2017 to June 2018 Boosted employee engagement, by implemented a health/wellness program for employees  ? Upgraded company marketability and expansion through application and approval of corporate,  branch, and individual licenses in 45 states and DC.  ? Established new procedures for more efficient and effective filing of new license applications  ? Communicate with branch managers and state regulators regarding licensing needs  Compliance Pipeline Management  ? Navigate Encompass to review all parts of the loan application  ? Review credit reports/AUS findings and ensure the HMDA screen is properly filled out  ? Complete withdrawals/denials of loan applications including sending Statement of Denial to borrowers  ? Verify all information/documentation required is complete/uploaded Rehabilitation Technician/ Scheduler North Cypress Medical Center February 2015 to April 2017 Assist physical therapists with patient testing, exercises, and scheduling  ? File and enter data Fitness Zone Supervisor / Operations Attendant University of Houston Department of Campus Recreation August 2011 to December 2014 Supervised three to four fitness zone attendants per shift  ? Monitored access to 24,000sq.ft. Fitness Zone, consisting of a weight room, cardio area, indoor  track, and multipurpose classrooms used for group exercise classes  ? Provided customer service to diverse population of students, faculty, staff and guests  Fitness Program Assistant  ? Client allocation to personal trainers, including transferring clients, filing paperwork  ? Organized and implemented special events, such as TexFit, a state wide Collegiate Fitness  Conference  Red Manikin Drill Team  ? Administered employee audits to assess knowledge and response time  ? Rendered feedback on employee performance during simulated emergency situations  Intramural Sports Office Staff / Summer Camp Counselor  ? Communicated game schedules, forfeits, cancellations, tournaments, special events, etc. with professional staff and team captains via phone and/or email  ? Input data and inventoried equipment Education Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology University of Houston - Houston, TX December 2014 Skills System Administrator, System Admin Certifications/Licenses Ellie Mae Encompass Administrator Certification March 2019 to March 2021 Basic Life Support (BLS) September 2018 to September 2020 Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/myflfcrov3gzksdd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.