Target Mobile Target Mobile Sarasota, FL Qualified computer technician with 7 years in customer service environments. Excellent communication and customer service skills. Professional and personable under pressure looking to put people skills to good use in the Information Technology industry. Work Experience Target Mobile MarketSource - Sarasota, FL April 2019 to Present Sold phones and accessories | Activate phones Field Service Technician DISH Technologies - Tampa, FL January 2018 to November 2019 Went to homes and installed satellite dishes | Routes coaxial cables as needed | Set up receivers and showed users how to use them VoIP Technical Support Lightspeed Voice - Sarasota, FL 2018 to 2018 Handled and resolved incoming calls about various phone issues Used a ticketing system to keep track of issues Systems Administrator All American Monitoring - Sarasota, FL 2018 to 2018 Maintained Virtual Machines in VMware and managed users in Active Directory | Maintained network and resolved any networking issues | Handled any problems users were having via ticketing system | Documented steps taken to resolve issues Cashier Publix - Sarasota, FL 2012 to 2018 Ensures superior customer experience by addressing customer concerns, demonstrating empathy, and resolving problems efficiently. | Generated a loyal customer base | Up-to-date knowledge of pricing, merchandize, sales and store promotions Repair Technician Safelite Autoglass - Sarasota, FL 2016 to 2016 Performed on-site repairs to customer's vehicle windshields | Handled all payment transactions. Education Computer Systems Technology Suncoast Technical College - Sarasota, FL 2017 Skills Network protocols (3 years), Linux (3 years), Software troubleshooting (2 years), Python (Less than 1 year), Maintenance (3 years), Mac (1 year), Windows Server (2 years) Additional Information Professional Skills  ? Knowledge in network protocols  ? Windows & Linux Servers  ? Python 3 programming    ? Hardware and software troubleshooting  ? Computer building and maintenance  ? Experience with multiple desktop OS (Linux, Windows, Mac)