Trainer Coordinator Trainer Coordinator Experienced distributions facility lead/management specialists Victorville, CA I am looking for a position where there will be room for growth as well as advancement in the field in which to utilize my broad range of experience, dependability, attention to detail, eagerness, and energy. Recent training has provided me with directly relevant knowledge and hands–on experience. I am particularly adept in a number of areas that would make me an asset to your company.    I would sincerely appreciate the opportunity to meet with you at your earliest convenience to discuss my qualifications and background in greater detail. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Trainer Coordinator Performance Team /Mercedes Benz - Fontana, CA November 2018 to Present 11/2018 - Present  Performance Team (Promotion)  Fontana, CA  Trainer Coordinator/Safety Specialist   ? Mapped out training plans and schedules, designed and developed training programs (outsourced or in-house) for MHE equipment , Warehouse training and more.  ? Created appropriate training methods per warehouse departments .  ? Marketed available training opportunities to employees and provided necessary information for unique ares in the facility.  ? Communicated with managers to identify training needs and mapping out development plans for teams and individuals.  ? Identified hazards in the work place including MHE related safety practices.  ? Inspected and evaluated workplace environments, equipment, and practices for compliance with corporate and government health and safety standards including OSHA regulations.  ? Designed and implemented workplace processes and procedures that helped protect workers from potentially hazardous and work conditions.  ? Assisted In accident investigations and incidents to identify their causes and to determine how they might be prevented in the future.  ? Conducted training on a variety of safety topics such as emergency preparedness, Proper lifting techniques, and proper MHE driving. Location Administrator/ Operation Support Performance Team / Mercedes Benz distribution - Fontana, CA February 2017 to November 2018 lead team of inventory and warehouse workers to receive and record new stock as it comes in, move stock onto trucks and warehouse racks or shelves, monitor stock levels at the warehouse and know when to replenish stock. Maintain IBM system to accurately send specific stock to homebased locations in the warehouse as it is received. Fix any issues that may accrue with all inventory in the facility. Support operations and all departments when needed to insure timely shipping and receiving of Mercedes Benz parts to and from Germany/ Dealers, Training of associates in daily safety and production of the facility, Comply and insure all Safety rules and equipment are up to facility standards. Support and maintain all Iso 9001 projects Site Support Specialist / Safety Coordnaitor Neovia Logistics Services, LLC/ Mercedes Benz - Fontana, CA January 2015 to February 2017 Maintained the computer systems and networks .Installed and configured computer systems, diagnosed hardware and software faults and solved technical and applications problems, over the phone and in person. Performed office clerical, administrated, key entry work, payroll ,spreadsheet analysis and ordered materials, equipment and supplies. Coordinate inspection / quality requests. Performed related and /or specialized clerical duties and resolve discrepancies . Performed the material handling and warehousing functions required for the receiving processing, storing, moving, packing and shipping of parts, materials, equipment and supplies at the warehouse/distribution facility. Direct entity safety programs to protect employees against harm, and maintain safe working conditions. Formulated and suggested work safety standards, and enforced procedures. Handles prevention areas including hazardous materials exposure, accidents, fires, or other unsafe conditions. Systems Administrator linage logistics - Fontana, CA March 2014 to January 2015 Responsible for effective provisioning, installation/configuration, operation, and maintenance of systems hardware and software and related infrastructure. Do technical research and development to enable continuing innovation within the infrastructure. Ensures that system hardware, operating systems, software systems, and related procedures adhere to organizational values, enabling staff, volunteers, and Partners in the facility. Maintain and review all Walmart store orders and release to warehouse for picking and shipping. Forklift Operator Randstad - Redlands, CA February 2013 to March 2014 Operating stand up fork lift , sit down , electric pallet jack .Obtain copy’s of production schedule and shipping orders, transport materials equipment to and from designated areas in the facility Loading and unloading goods from vehicles such as trucks ,Moving goods packed on pallets or in crates around the storage facility , Stacking goods in the correct storage bays, following inventory control instructions, Checking loads and secure Stacking of empty pallets.  Performing daily equipment checks such as recharging the truck’s battery and lubricating equipment.Removing machine attachments and waste material from machines.  Examining products to verify conformance to quality standards. Forklift Operator BBSI - Fontana, CA April 2012 to December 2012 Receiving and checking incoming pick tickets, Locating products using R.F technology, Retrieving orders according to quantity, size etc. ensuring accuracy. Operating stand up fork lift , sit down , electric pallet jack , and Pacer. Education Associate in Network Systems Administrator ITT Technical Institute-San Bernardino - San Bernardino, CA 2012 to 2014 Associate in General Polytechnic High School - Long Beach, CA January 2001 to July 2005 Skills Fork lift operator ,Microsoft office, Excel, Word etc (8 years) Certifications/Licenses Certified Forklift Operator and Trainer Present Certified to drive and train on all industrial powered equipment.