Workstation Systems Administrator Workstation <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Workstation Systems Administrator San Diego, CA • Proven skills in troubleshooting, repair, and installation of hardware, software, electrical  components, machine parts, and RF equipment  • Excellent ability to resolve technical issues efficiently to exceed customer expectations.  • Self-motivated hardworking team player with a focus on achieving department goals. Work Experience Workstation Systems Administrator Kroswise November 2016 to August 2019 Contractor Lead - Acting as the Lead Contractor & Subject Matter Expert within the Field  Services Office. Systems Administrator for 800+ workstations and 100+ network printers.  Work with the Desktop Management Group to maintain information security on the RDT&E  Domain for 800+ systems. Executed vulnerabilities scan, mitigated/fixed findings of high, critical and/or medium vulnerabilities on Desktop Managed Systems. Resolved complex  Host Based Security Systems (HBSS) issues. Deployed, imaged and joined client PC's to the Domain. Responsible for Updating Operating Systems, Security and installed Third-Party  applications. Resolved Remedy Service Tickets generated by SPAWAR Help Desk/Service  Desk maintaining a trouble ticket queue. Made outgoing calls/email and on-site follow up to ensure the client request is being handled and resolved professionally. Configured and  troubleshot network connectivity on Client machines and network Printers. Participated in SSC PAC Data Calls with RDT&E Network Management and the IRM Team. Inventoried and removal of unapproved software applications. Worked in conjunction with SPAWAR  Service Desk, Network Security and Active Directory teams to resolve computer  issues. Configured network printers and computers to compliant with DOD security  technical implementation guides (STIGs). Workstation Technician Calnet October 2015 to November 2016 • Systems Administrator for 900+ workstations and 100+ network printers. Work with the Desktop Management Group to maintain information security on the RDT&E Domain for  900+ systems. Executed vulnerabilities scan, mitigated/fixed findings of high, critical and/or medium vulnerabilities on Desktop Managed Systems. Resolved complex Host Based  Security Systems (HBSS) issues. Deployed, imaged and joined client PC's to the Domain.  Responsible for Updating Operating Systems, Security and installed Third-Party  applications. Resolved Remedy Service Tickets generated by SPAWAR Help Desk/Service  Desk maintaining a trouble ticket queue. Made outgoing calls/email and on-site follow up to ensure the client request is being handled and resolved professionally. Configured and  troubleshot network connectivity on Client machines and network Printers. Participated in SSC PAC Data Calls with RDT&E Network Management and the IRM Team. Inventoried and removal of unapproved software applications. Worked in conjunction with SPAWAR  Service Desk, Network Security and Active Directory teams to resolve computer  issues. Configured network printers and computers to compliant with DOD security  technical implementation guides (STIGs). IT Specialist / Afloat NOC Watch Supervisor Advanced Information Systems Group (AISG) September 2011 to October 2015 Provide support and maintenance of MSC Afloat NOC Systems, Servers, EKMS Materials, BEST Satellite communications, New Generation Wideband Satellite communications.  Supporting MSC Ships with Fleet Service Message support, satellite communication  troubleshooting, Active Directory, POP3 and Exchange Email, Remote server troubleshooting  and server connectivity support. Also responsible for maintaining Radio logs and security of the Afloat NOC Spaces. Responsible for managing the Afloat NOC Watch team during my  assigned shift. Field Services Technician Tier III Disys June 2010 to July 2011 Desktop Support, provide on-site and remote hardware and software support for computer  systems, peripherals, and printing devices. Install, configure and troubleshoot various software  and hardware. Maintain local Microsoft Windows systems. Responsible for re- imaging/refreshing machines, repairing hardware/software issues, connecting equipment to the  network, remoting into customers computers, maintaining, troubleshooting, and repairing  software related problems. Maintain a Remedy queue for new call tickets and move, add, change requests. Coordinate with other contractor services for customer  support. Troubleshooting network connectivity issues on end user devices, and network shared  devices to include cabling, hardware and software problems. Education Bachelors of Science in Information Systems Security ITT Technical Institute - San Diego, CA December 2009 Associates of Science in Computer Network Systems ITT Technical Institute - San Diego, CA June 2005 Skills Active directory, Dns, Firewalls, Network security, Tcp/ip, Dhcp, Lan/wan, Tcp, Wan protocols, Security, Voip, Intrusion, Linux, Satellite communications, Intrusion detection, Lan, Microsoft office, Documentation, Forensics Additional Information SKILLS: & Linux  • Microsoft Office, 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013 & 2016.  • Active Directory & Group Policies  • LAN/WAN Protocols & Configuration  • TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, VPNs, VOIP  • Network Security & Firewalls  • Intrusion Detection and Hacker Prevention; System Forensics Investigation & Documentation  • BEST and NGW Satellite Communications