Data and Systems Administrator Data and <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Southgate, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data and Systems Administrator Volunteers of America Michigan - Detroit, MI January 2019 to Present ·      Maintain Systems and Database for expenses and case files on all participants/ clients  ·      Provide regular checks and reports to management staff for billing, support of services, and audit checks  ·      Create policies and procedures to keep in compliance with CARF accreditation.  ·      Ensure that all duties are carried out in a timely manner, to help with efficiency of program functions  Auditing case files and keeping up-to-date parameters for program goals. Health Profession Community Liaison/ Service Navigator Volunteers of America Michigan - Detroit, MI July 2017 to Present HPOG 2.0  • Develop relationships with consumers and opportunities with health profession employers and community resources that encourage self-sufficiency  • Develop relationships with internal and external partners to ensure effective health profession pipelines in the public and private sector/ case manage participants that are within the parameters of the Grant.  • Establish relationships with qualified HPOG consumers (low-income and TANF recipients) and refer to appropriate supportive service  • Attend community events regularly to promote VOAMI and HPOG array of services  • Develop social media and communication outlets that reach, attract and retain our consumers and educate the general public about VOAMI and HPOG Veterans, and Community Wellness / Zika Intern Wayne County Department of Health - Wayne, MI April 2017 to July 2017 • Helped the Deputy Health Officer get ready the audit for the health department by gathering documents and making sure everything is up to date with the policies and procedures that are in affect.  • The Zika Virus program was surveying areas for different breeds of mosquitoes to see if we can identify the Aedes Albopictus that carries the zika virus.  • Another portion of the zika virus grant was outreach and this was to educate the community about the importance of mosquito defense and what needs to be done to protect against the viruses spread by mosquitoes.  • With the grant and the auditing for the department, I was able to receive experience in coordinating different activities to receive updates from all departments to stay within compliance with the company and be able to provide up to date data on my findings for the zika grant. Education Master's in Healthcare Administration Southern New Hampshire University (Online) - Southgate, MI October 2018 to Present Bachelors in Health Science- Public Health Emphasis Brigham Young University - Rexburg, ID September 2013 to July 2017 Skills Microsoft Office (4 years), Outreach/ Marketing (3 years), Public Speaking (2 years), Data Management (1 year), Administrative Support (2 years), Business Development, Health Care, management, excel, Marketing, Sales, Organizational Skills, Project Management, Problem Solving, System Administrator Additional Information Health and Management  • Developed personalized weight management/ nutrition programs to achieve weight loss goals.  • Created presentations based on the needs of the program and for the clients.   • Coordinating with other leaders to help the program move forward in training sessions and ideas  • Data Management along with making sure the data that is inputted is kept up to date and easily accessible  Leadership and Communication  • Training and helping others in the workplace to develop the skills needed to do the things that they are asked to do.  • Developed training sessions to improve teaching techniques, planning implications for fellow service volunteers.  • Conducted and participated in leadership councils on how to be a better employee and what can be done to better the program.  • Worked with others in a well conducted group manner to go over issues and resolve problems in a specific area of concern, related to the work in workplace and mission field.  Planning and Implementation  • Designed and implemented research programs to assess strength improvement for entry level weight lifting clients.  • Provided health plans to others that helped with changing behaviors such as stop smoking, quit drinking, etc.  • Implemented and coordinated new training programs that helped work site's grow. Such as new ideas for work when there's not much business, how to be reasonable with uncooperative people, as well as making sure everyone is able to take leadership roles within their areas.