HR Advisor HR Advisor HR Advisor - PerkinElmer, Inc Hudson, MA Results oriented HR Generalist seeking a full-time position. Providing customer-focused support and experience guiding in everything from employee relations, talent acquisition, benefits and project management. Experienced in building relationships with teams and partnering with leaders to create innovative solutions to HR challenges. Proven interpersonal communications and multi-tasking skills.  Candidate in the Master's program in Human Resource Management. Work Experience HR Advisor PerkinElmer, Inc February 2019 to Present Support the day to day operations of the HR department; onboarding, background checks, leaves, policy management, and Workday issues.  • Facilitate New Hire Orientations and complete onboarding weekly  • Educate employees on the different types of leaves and working with our Vendor  • Workday, first level support, for employees and managers  • Employee relations  • Support the TA team with background checks. Consultant Management Recruiters Inc - Westborough, MA May 2018 to December 2018 Source job boards for positions, initiate contact with candidates regarding job opportunities. Conduct phone screens, background checks. Contact client companies to create relationships.  • Generate candidate interest through creative marketing and social media messaging  • Effectively influenced passive job seekers to pursue opportunities  • Maintain CRM and add candidates to the database Life Cycle Manager ADP September 2017 to May 2018 Randstad, Remote (Contract)  Conducted onsite and WebEx presentations to Worksite employees of small and mid-size companies that have ADP TotalSource for their company benefits.  • Answered employee questions and explained how each benefit worked  • Built relationships with HRBP's, Owners, and employees  • Utilized strong customer service skills as I was the ADP contact when on-site HR/Payroll Administrator BMW of Sudbury/Mercedes Benz of Natick - Natick, MA September 2016 to January 2017 Completed weekly payroll for 2 locations and 250 employees. This included bonuses, commissions, and specials.  • Conducted Pre-Employee screenings and license checks  • Responsible for all new hire paperwork using E-Verify for I9's and Orientation  • Maintained employee files and confidential records  • Ran reports for controller through ADP payroll for projects HR Benefits Representative EMC - Hopkinton, MA June 2014 to August 2016 Originally hired as an Intern and eventually offered a permanent, full time position. Engaged in Project Management, Pilot programs, Orchestrated Benefit Fairs for MA, and assisted in a Financial Wellness initiative.  • Conducted monthly wellness Webinars  • Assisted employees on a wide range of benefits questions  • In charge of Parental Leave for California and handled FMLA HR Intern Toolmex Industrial Solutions - Natick, MA March 2014 to May 2014 Worked in HR to learn new protocols for benefits.  • Added and removed employees from company benefits through vendor website  • Reconciled bills after open enrollment to ensure billing was done correctly  • Preformed reference checks on prospective employees  • Responsible for any administrative HR tasks fixed all the employee files to ensure they were ready for an audit Systems Technician United State Air Force July 1993 to May 1997 • Trained airmen through videos for MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and E-Mail  • Medical Bills Tech, saved over $100,000 through authorized medical claims payments for a seven-state area Education Masters in Human Resource Management Framingham State University - Framingham, MA 2020 Bachelors in Liberal Studies Framingham State University - Framingham, MA 2017 Skills Human Resource, Hr Generalist, Employee Relation, Hr Assistant, ADP Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E3