Site Reliability Engineer Site Reliability Engineer Site Reliability Engineer - Ultimate Software.Inc • Over 6+ years of IT experience as System Administrator, DevOps/Site Reliability Engineer and Production Support of various applications on Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu and skilled with Windows Server 2008-r2/2012-r2/2016 on various hardware platforms and AWS cloud and Openstack.  • Responsible for OpenStack project core infrastructure including code review, continuous integration systems, and developer tools. And scaled developer infrastructure as project grew and transitioned to OpenStack Foundation.  • Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, RDS, EC2 EBS, ELB, Auto-Scaling, AMI, IAM, VPC, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Lambda Functions, Cloud Formation, Python/Boto, AWS CLI and Console and API Integration with Puppet Code.  • Created a Lambda Deployment function, codes, and configured it to receive events from S3 bucket. And used use AWS Lambda to execute code in response to triggers such as changes in data, shifts in system state, or actions by users.  • Configured Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) to control security groups and firewall rules and AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) to control user credentials and roles.  • In depth Knowledge of AWS cloud service like Compute, Network, Storage and Identity & access management. Hands-on Experience in configuration of Network architecture on AWS with VPC, Subnets, Internet gateway, NAT, Route table.  • Designed and configured Azure Virtual Networks (VNets), subnets, Azure network settings, DHCP address blocks, DNS settings, security policies and routing. And deployed Azure IaaS virtual machines (VMs) and Cloud services (PaaS role instances) into secure VNets and subnets.  • Hands-on experience in writing Ansible Playbook Roles, inventory files from the scratch and sharing the roles on Ansible Galaxy, role management, reviewed the Playbook language features and creating Reusable Playbooks.  • Designed Puppet Modules to manage configurations and automate installation process and Experience automating centralized configuration-using Puppet.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Experience in working on source control tools like SVN, CVS, IBM Clear Case, Perforce, Bitbucket and GIT, Strong knowledge on source controller concepts like Branches, Merges and Tags.  • Expertise in migration and upgradation of WebLogic/Tomcat/WebSphere Server and updating JDK versions, applying patches and installing service packs for WebLogic/tomcat server.  • Experience working on several Docker components like Docker Engine, Docker Hub, volumes, creating Docker images, Compose, Docker Registry and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations.  • Created Kubernetes Custom Cluster from Scratch designing and preparing which involves several steps like creating nodes, Networks, security models, preparing certs, credentials, Docker, Bootstrapping the cluster, API server, Controller Manager, Scheduler, starting cluster Services.  • Creation of Pods through new application and control the scaling of pods, troubleshooting pods through ssh and logs, writing/modification of Buildconfigs, templates, Image streams etc.  • Worked on group/user administration, startup and shutdown scripts, crontabs, file system maintenance and backup scripting and automation.  • Expertise in writing Shell scripts using ksh, Bash, and Perl for process automation of databases, applications, backup and scheduling. And expert in setting up SSH, SCP, SFTP connectivity between Linux hosts.  • Experienced in DNS, NFS, CIFS, FTP, NIS, Samba Server, Tomcat & Apache servers, LDAP, remote access, security management, and system troubleshooting skills.  • Experience in RedHat-Linux(5x,6x&7x), CentOS (5x, 6x & 7x), Ubuntu, and Windows Server(2008R2/2012R2) Environment.  • Proficient in configuring Kickstart servers to initiate installation of Red hat Linux on several machines at once.  • Extensive knowledge in Administration tasks on RedHat-Linux and documentation for the projects executed. Installed, monitored and supported Web and Application Servers on Linux environments and update, monitor, deploy and manage systems using Red Hat Satellite servers.  • Experience in Storage, Disk Management, Logical Volume Management (LVM) and logical partitioning and maintaining file systems and creating NFS.  • Monitored the servers and checked the network performance using Nagios, Splunk, Sensu or Resource Monitoring/Network Monitoring/Log Trace Monitoring. Experience in monitoring servers using tools like Dynatrace, AppDynamics and Splunk.  • Involved in setting up JIRA as defect tracking system and configured various workflows, customizations and plugins for the JIRA bug/issue tracker. Work Experience Site Reliability Engineer Ultimate Software.Inc - San Francisco, CA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Monitoring and maintaining the Development, Testing/QA, Staging and Production environments.  • Mitigating production performance issues effectively by taking responsibility for seeing those performance issues through resolution with the goal of automating to prevent problem recurrence.  • Working closely with team members and development to improve existing systems  • Participating in on-call/on-demand network, server and database support and handling the maintenance windows.  • Worked with other members of their assigned Value Stream to ensure that the in-scope applications/platforms are meeting performance and stability requirements. This includes managing Major Incidents to Mitigation/Resolution.  • Problem Management: Performs Post-Incident Reviews of all Major Incidents and determining Action Items required to avoid similar issues/minimize downtime for future Incidents and also handling RCA's reviews.  • Monitors and Metrics: Worked with Application Development to ensure that assigned applications/platforms have the appropriate monitoring and metrics in place to appropriately measure performance and stability. Identify Functional and Non-Functional Improvements.  • Acted as the Operations representative in Value Stream planning and prioritizes sessions to ensure that Operational needs of assigned applications/platforms are addressed as needed. Holds quarterly Operational Performance Reviews with Value Stream management.  • Configured Sensu monitoring across all Data centers with Ansible configuration management Tool.  • Release Planning & Coordination: Worked with other members of their assigned Value Stream to ensure that the Production releases for their in-scope applications/platforms are properly planned and coordinated. This includes Holds Change/Release implementation reviews to ensure thorough and appropriate implementation plans. Provides review and sign-off/approval of change tickets for the assigned Value Stream.  • Represents the Value Stream in Change Advisory Board Meetings. Participates in Program Increment Planning Sessions as a liaison for Operations and Infrastructure support. Provides information regarding upcoming critical changes to the Value Stream.  • Performs Monthly Capacity Analysis of applications/platforms within the Value Stream. Creates and Maintains Operationally focused ELK Dashboards for the Value Stream  • Written puppet manifest for setting up rabbitmq cluster and policy setup in production servers.  • Setup Dev environment like Vagrant and Docker. Integrated version control GitHub with Jenkin boxes (Master and slaves) to perform tests like Frisby-Tests, UIAeon tests, KArma-Tests on Dev and QA team pull requests.  • Constructed a RESTful API to manage infrastructure services using Python and Flask. Creating an endpoint that returns static data. After, we are going to create a class with few specializations and endpoints to insert and retrieve instances of these classes. Finally, will look on how to run the API on a Docker container.  • worked on Docker and Kubernetes on cloud providers, from helping developers build and containerize their application (CI/CD) to deploying either on public or private cloud.  • Minimized auto-incrementing primary key value issues by adding monitoring to detect the value.  • Configured Mysql percona Db master and slave replication. Migrating them to new data center taking care of all precautions (firewalls and DNS) in new data center with minimal down time.  • Used puppet to spin up Mongo and Redis cluster three node cluster with high availability (replica set).  • Written shell scripts for nightly production backups and integrated with team city agents (with python fabric compatible). Configured pipelines for production deploys with team city agents.  • Configured concourse pipelines for production deploy integrated micro services which are hosted in PCF environment. DevOps Engineer Atlanta, GA October 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Migration of Middleware Applications from Data Centers. This activity involved co-ordination between different Infrastructure Teams Like Site Services, Linux, Load Balancing teams.  • Used shell for Weblogic Install, upgrade patches, deployment, monitor, tuning and configuration of WebLogic application server  • Established, maintained and configured secure communication using SSL certificate generation and exchange; revised and modified as necessary to ensure secure network environment.  • Installation, configuring, building, maintenance and support of Apache proxy servers, Web Logic servers, Web logic Coherence, Net Scalar load balancer.  • Requesting and Processing of new SSL Certs from Certificate Authority and its renewals. Addressing the problem tickets across all D2P application Environments  • Hands-on experience in writing Ansible Playbook Roles, inventory files from the scratch and sharing the roles on Ansible Galaxy, role management, reviewed the Playbook language features and creating Reusable Playbooks.  • Extensively worked on an Ansible, maintained a fully immutable server architecture and design that includes updating and patching servers and spin up an exact new server's replica that contains the upgrades and security patches as per the current environment and proceed with taking care of the updated packages will not break or cause service disruption.  • Developed Ansible Playbooks to test the Sharding in MongoDB clusters by Dynamic configurations for mongos in MongoDB cluster. Implemented a Continuous delivery framework using Bamboo, Ansible, Maven and Oracle in Linux Environment.  • Automated and Installed various relational databases like PostgreSQL, MySQL and clusters by developing Ansible Playbooks on different Cloud and on-premise environments.  • Automate Linux servers using ansible for doing system administration tasks. Configured Openldap-server & Openldap-client ansible playbook for centralized login on Linux Vms.  • Support the code builds by integrating with continuous integration tool (Jenkins) Written Maven scripts, Installed Jenkins, written shell script for end to end build and deployment automation. Build the artifacts using MAVEN /ANT and created the pom.xml files and pushed the artifacts to nexus artifactory manager.  • Created scripts for backup and restoring GITHUB repositories. Implemented Microservices architecture to convert monolithic heavy application into smaller applications.  • Extensively worked on Hudson, Jenkins, Cruise Control, Bamboo for continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Microservice template for new API project. Publishing custom library components to organization private npm.  • Worked with an agile development team to deliver an end to end continuous integration/continuous delivery product in an open source environment using Xl-deploy and xl-release automation tools for promoting the built package to all the higher environments.  • Installed Chef-Server Enterprise On-Premise/WorkStation/ Bootstrapped the Nodes using Knife. Created Chef Cookbooks using recipes to automate system operations. Server automation with Chef and tools like Maven for deployment and build management.  • Involved in setting up JIRA as defect tracking system and configured various workflows, customizations and plugins for the JIRA bug/issue tracker.  • Implemented new JIRA workflows for the QA teams and worked on Splitting JIRA server's configuration. And technical competencies in third party product integration into JIRA 7.2.  • Developed server-side scripts in shell to customize GIT and integrate it with tools like Gerrit, Bugzilla, JIRA and Jenkins.  • Created a JIRA workflow and apply the condition, validators and post-function in the transition to represent the business requirement process.  • JIRA experience with customizing projects with various schemas, complex workflows, screen schemes, permission schemes, and notification schemes etc.  • Virtualized the servers using the Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs. And, configuration automation using Docker containers and Implemented several Tomcat Instances by using the Docker engine for running several Containerized Application Servers.  • Worked on installing of Docker, created Docker images using a Docker file. Worked on Docker container snapshots, removing images and managing Docker volumes. Experienced in building and maintaining Docker and Vagrant infrastructure in agile environment.  • Expertise in using Kubernetes control plane and creating an API objects to maintain the cluster's in their desired state or modify and running the applications on them. Creating number of replicas, using container images, setting up the network and resources typically via cli.  • Installed, Deployed Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x/7.x, CentOS and installation of packages and patches for Red Hat Linux Servers.  • Installed, configured and Administering Bitbucket for Version control and Migrated Current GitLab Server onto Bitbucket on Rhel 7.5, Managed entire development workflow within Bitbucket, from code to deployment.  • Utilize Nagios based Open Source monitoring tools to monitor Linux Cluster nodes configured using Red Hat Cluster Suite.  • Configured and administered JDBC Connection pools/Data sources, JMS Connection Factories and other JMS artifacts like JMS Servers, Distributed Queues. DevOps Engineer Technology Group, CA April 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Expertise of the principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) in Agile, scrum, and Waterfall methodologies.  • Enhanced Configuration Management using (PUPPET) to assist with automated, repeatable, and consist configuration and application deployments.  • Assisted Operations Team by writing specific Puppet manifests to deal with application installations and related configuration files.  • Installed, Deployed Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x/7.x, CentOS and installation of packages and patches for Red Hat Linux Servers.  • Hands on experience in CI (Continuous Integration), CD (Continuous Delivery) pipelines, strong background in Build and Release Management and Cloud Implementation all within that suites the needs of an environment under DevOps Culture.  • Wrote custom puppet modules for managing the full application stack (Tomcat/httpd/MySQL/Java) and Implemented GitLab for version control of puppet modules and process documentation. And experience in using Tomcat and Apache web servers for deployment and for hosting tools.  • Worked on Gerrit to create user, uploading git repository, editing the project configuration through Git, managing project access.  • Deployments from GiT to Cassandra via Bamboo and JSNodes, with full auditing and user authentication and authorization provided by the LDAP.  • Configured bamboo Remote agent on Windows Platform to perform .Net Applications Builds. Performed Remote Deployments from Bamboo Remote Agent to different IIS Environments using MS Deploy.  • Configured Bamboo- Artifactory plugin to upload the artifacts on to Artifactory after the build is success. And Involved in implementing Atlassian Tool Suite (Jira, Bamboo).  • Experience in managing automated multiple continues integrated depot and branch builds on Bamboo, Hudson/Jenkins, TeamCity, AnthillPro, Cruisecontrol.net on a network server.  • Implementation/setup continuous project build and deployment delivery process using Subversion, Bamboo, urban code Deploy and Subversion, Jenkins, urban code Deploy.  • Resolved update, merge and password authentication issues in Bamboo and Jira. Configured Source Code Management tools with Bamboo and executed triggers in Git.  • Worked on Pipelines and aligned with the branch structure, making it easier to work with branching workflows like feature branching or git-flow.  • Gained experience with modern software engineering tools such as Git version control, Jira issue tracking, Gerrit code review, and Hudson continuous integration.  • Well versed in creating the tickets with Oracle and to the internal-partnering teams for the addressing the issues in the stipulated timelines.  • Worked on the Net-scalar load balancers for creating, configuring the new VIPs, SSL certs & bridges, context switching, virtual servers, service groups.  • Good Experience in various Jira plugins such as Jira client, Jira importer plugin, Jira Charting Plugin, the connector for Microsoft project and Jira Misc Custom fields.  • Experience in writing Jira API Tools to auto-move Service Desk tickets of one issue type to a Jira project of another issue type and to extract the list of Jira users with the respective Jira Groups and Project Roles.  • Designing and implementing CI (Continuous Integration) system: configuring Jenkins servers, Jenkins nodes, creating required scripts (Perl & Python), and creating/configuring VMs (Windows/Linux).  • Creation of groups, adding User ID to a group as a primary or secondary group, removing User ID from a group. Performed regression and system-level testing to verify software quality and function before it was released.  • Support software development infrastructure by providing a standard development environment, configuration management, backup, and recovery and support our developers with advanced Linux administration and helped them optimize hardware and software development to migrate into embedded systems.  • Analyzed, evaluated and documented application performance, by implementing AppDynamics into production, which directly led to efficiency gains and process improvements.  • Used Dynatrace to monitor server metrics and Performed in-depth analysis to isolate points of failure in the application.  • Administrated DHCP, DNS, and NFS services in Linux and experience in creating and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in Ubuntu.  • Experience Writing/maintaining scripts, Maintaining Linux servers/firewalls and responsible for doing software upgrades on Juniper routers and switches. Build and release engineer Cerner - Kansas City, MO December 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Handling version control TFS with code merging, branching, labeling and creation of build definitions for different projects as per release.  • Merging of code as per release from branch to main and main to branch and supporting for multiple releases at the same time.  • Resolving of build and deployment issues. Successfully delivered all major builds as per expectations. Given a great support for STAGE and PROD deployments.  • Create branches for various code line deliveries and merging to the main code base after every PRODUCTION release.  • Communicating with Development teams in advance for all PRODUCTION releases planned.  • Automated TFS version control related activities for releasing locks, label creation, Label validation and differences, and integrated it with Jenkins jobs.  • Provided centralized software configuration management for enterprise application projects in a multi-tiered high-availability environment. Created and maintained Shell and Python scripts for building applications.  • Wrote Perl/Shell scripts for deployments to WebSphere and WebLogic Application servers. Automated creating projects in Jenkins and Nexus repository as release process.  • Worked closely with developers, project managers and product owners to setup the road map, resolve issues related to merging of subversion code.  • Gathered Information from the Clients and provided consultation by performing POC and setup the Build/Deployment and Release Management.  • Performed Risk Analysis, prepared Mitigation Strategies & Contingency Plans.  • Coordinating Release effort amongst various teams (Development, QA, Testing, and Business Analysis) in geographically separated environment.  • Worked with Subversion, Proposed and implemented branching strategy suitable for agile/scrum development in a Fast-Paced Engineering Environment.  • Managed the Subversion branching strategy for a few applications by creating Release branches, Development branches thus ensuring the integrity of Trunk.  • Competently performed the job of resolving conflicts while merging in Subversion with the J2EE development background.  • Experience in and demonstrated understanding of source control management concepts such as Branching, Merging, Labeling/Tagging and Integration. Systems and VMware Administrator Impegno software solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to November 2013 • Responsible for Active directory, GPO, Domain users, Administrating users and groups and given appropriate permissions and privilege to access our LAN and Domain environment.  • Familiar with the upgrade paths for ESX\ESXi Host servers\Virtual Center Server & the setting up of networking on Linux  servers.  • Installation and Configuration of networks, router configuration and wireless access point/router with security, TCP/IP, VPN, Content Filtering, Access Control Lists on router/switches, VLANs (port mapping, naming etc.), and routing IP address in both LAN/WAN and wireless networks.)  • Experience in troubleshooting SAN related issues and firmware upgradations of SANs in VMware and different environments  • Troubleshoot and monitored network using SNMP and Solar winds network monitoring tools.  • Monitored virtual infrastructure by using a DRS/HA cluster. That cluster will pool (and load-balance, to some degree) CPU and memory from all ESXi servers in the cluster. Once placed in a cluster and monitored on cluster memory and CPU utilization.  • Used VMware VMotion to eliminate application downtime from planned server maintenance by migrating running virtual machines between hosts.  • Creating templates to deploy multiple virtual machines and clone using VMware virtual client and migrating machines between hosts with HA and DRS. And Installed and configured VMware ESXi 3.x, 4.x servers and applied security patches to ESXi servers.  • Participated in regular 24x7 on-call rotations and coordinated with the offshore team for night-time scheduled activities.  • Experience in performance tuning of VMWare servers and Virtual sessions and management of server's resources between virtual machines.  • Experience in Linux OS installation, Software and Patch management and Volume Manager Administration Network OS / SW installation.  • Installed, configured, and administered Red hat Enterprise Linux 5.x, 6.x. and maintained SAMBA, NFS, HTTP, NGINX, and FTP in Linux for accessing and sharing files from the Windows environment.  • Experience in installing multiple Linux servers using Kickstart installation and custom build scripts for RedHat Enterprise Linux and CentOS. Experience managing HPBlade center C7000 hardware management using ILO Console.  • Created server profile and managed Network and virtual SAN configuration using Virtual Connect in blade center C7000.  • Installed/Configured Red Hat Linux Cluster 5.x version & configured the cluster resources  • Managed ESXi servers using the Vsphere client and Vcenter for managing the multiple ESXi servers  • Worked on SAN storage on ESXi servers and assigned the LUNs to the virtual machines running on the ESXi hosts.  • Created fence devices in the cluster, created failover domains within the cluster and Flipover/Failover tests between the nodes in the clusters.  • Created filesystems using Red Hat volume manager and performed health checks on a regular basis for all the Linux servers and added storage to the cluster disks and managed the filesystem size in RHEL.  • Set up and scanned the newly assigned LUNs to the servers and assigned them to the respective volume group and increased the filesystem using Red Hat volume manager.  • Created filesystem and RAW logical volumes for the Oracle RAC based on the requirement.  • Created and modified swap files and added swap space and configured RAID levels using volume manager.  • Mounted and unmounted netapp storage LUNs to the Red Hat Linux servers and troubleshooted any issues that came up.  • Created Link aggregation (LACP) with VLAN tunneling using virtual connect (VC) and shared uplink set (SUS) using LACP and VLAN tagging.  • Performance Tuning and Management for Linux/AIX servers and worked with the application/database team to resolve issues.  • Migrated Red Hat Linux servers from 4.x version and worked with the application team to resolve the post migration issues.  • Experience with Vup 5.0, Sybase 11.5.1, Perl Scripting, LDAP server, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat, EMC Storage SAN.  • Installed and updated Kernel in Linux servers and created initrd image to boot from the upgraded kernel. Skills .net, Application server, C++, Git, Html, Jenkins, Python, Ruby, Scripting, Svn, Xml, Iis, Nagios, Puppet, Remedy, Ant, Maven, Jdbc, Sql server, Mysql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems RHEL/CentOS 5.x/6.x/7, Ubuntu/Debian/Fedora, Sun Solaris 7/8/9/10, Windows Server 2003/2008/2012  Build/Automation Tools Ansible, Puppet, Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Hudson &Bambo  Languages Shell, Bash,Ruby and Python scripting  RDMS: databases MySql, PostgreSQL, SQL Server,  NOSQL: data bases Cassandra, MongoDB, Redis, Rabbitmq, Elasticsearch  Web/App Server Apache, IIS, HIS, Tomcat, WebSphere Application Server, JBoss  Bug Tracking Tools JIRA, Fisheye, Crucible, Rally, Remedy and IBM Clear Quest, Bugzilla, HP Quality Center.  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN, Bitbucket  Web/Technologies/Programing Languages JDBC, JSP, XML, HTML, .Net, Java Script, Java/J2EE, C, C++, Ruby, Python, Shell scripting, Kafka  Cloud technologies  AWS EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, Aurora, Redshift, EBS, CloudWatch, Cloud Formation AWS Config, S3, Lambda, Cloud Trail, IAM. VMw, Azure.    Monitoring Tools Kibana, Sensu, Grafana dashboard, Splunk, Nagios