Information Systems Support Specialist Information <span class="hl">Systems</span> Support Specialist Information Systems Support Specialist - Anne Arundel Dermatology Knoxville, TN Highly motivated and efficient technical support professional. Master multitasker with an outstanding go getter attitude. A quick learner who thrives in an atmosphere of change, and diversity. Goes above and beyond to help customers daily with their needs in fixing their problems with technology.    INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPETENCIES  Hardware: Mikrotik routers, Edgewave switches, Unifi Access points, Raspberry Pi, Dell PowerEdge, mobile devices, laptops, desktops  Systems: Windows OS, Windows Server, freePBX, EMR, EHR, Zabbix, Android, and iOS  Software: MS Word/Excel/PowerPoint/Outlook, Office 365, Airwatch, Allscripts Pro EHR, Trend Micro, McAfee, VMware, Powershell, Active Directory, Exchange. Work Experience Information Systems Support Specialist Anne Arundel Dermatology - Knoxville, TN 2018 to Present This role helps support 1000+ users in 25 different locations. The role also assumes responsibility for new site project planning and deployment.  • Completed four site integration in Knoxville. This included on-premise exchange to O365 migration. Researched legacy systems to capture any and all information for transition to new applications during onboarding. Installed infrastructure devices including Mikrotik Cloud Core routers, Ubiquiti Edgewave switches, and Unifi Access points at each location.  • Multitask and balance help desk tickets along with projects with a heavy emphasis on prioritization  • Communicate effectively with management up to executive level about ongoing projects  • Travel routinely to different sites for help desk related work and/or project related work  • Create and maintain highly accurate and detailed documentation on problems and resolutions IT Technician DWK LifeSciences - Rockwood, TN 2017 to 2018 • Administered AD users, computers, and group policy  • Global IT support of users in United States, Mexico, China, and Germany  • Managed Windows Server, Ubuntu Server Regional IT Administrator K12 Inc - Alcoa, TN 2016 to 2017 Provided PC-related technical support by resolving hardware and software issues through expertise in: MS Windows as well as Mac OS platforms; MS Office suite; TCP/IP, VPN, viruses/malware, printers and peripherals, managing system accesses, Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT November 2018