Business Analyst II Business Analyst II Business Analyst II - Sunshine Health Pompano Beach, FL A skilled AHIMA Certified Healthcare Technology Specialist (CHTS-IS), and a CompTIA Security+ Certified professional. Excellent at installing, configuring, maintaining, troubleshooting and securing various operating systems and EHRs. Also exceptional at navigating various Windows software platforms. Specialize in optimizing computers peak performance, repairing software and hardware, and securing and managing networks. Experience in data procurement. Outstanding customer service and project management skills. Work Experience Business Analyst II Sunshine Health - Sunrise, FL April 2018 to Present • Supported business initiatives (HBR's) through identification of implementation barriers, user acceptance testing, and data analysis of new AHCA state required performance metrics conveyed as reporting dashboards created in MicroStrategy BI tool.  • Identified and examined user requirements, workflows, and problem solved with different departments to improve and automate existing processes as well as provide required documentation related to AHCA state reporting and monitored such reporting through ServiceNow ticketing system.  • Performed detailed analysis on assigned projects, recommended potential business solutions and assisted with configuration of TruCare EHR for identification and resolution of newly defined HEDIS gaps outlined by NCQA for state certification.  • Detected ways to monitor staff performance by implementing operational reports to capture their defined metrics, then uploaded team stats to department's SharePoint site.  • Assisted with extracting data for Ad Hoc reporting, through SQL coding, from Teradata RDBMS environment. Intervention Analyst/Clinical Analytics Coordinator Bronx Regional Health Information Organization - Bronx, NY October 2013 to October 2017 • Transitioned to the Delivery System Reform Incentive Payment (DSRIP) Program to assist with analysis on various projects for multiple Performing Provider Systems to ensure achievement of quality measures such as HEDIS, NQF, and PQI.  • Functioned as Department of Health liaison by providing various reports for analysis to assist with delivering data on specific registries.  • Participated in the Bronx Regional Informatics Center (BRIC) Innovations Project that assisted healthcare providers, who were Bronx RHIO members, to identify opportunities to improve patient care in their organization through the use of our Bronx Regional Analytics Database (BRAD) to extract patients' utilization and to determine best practices to reduce such utilizations. This was accomplished by proactive reports from Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Excel, and Tableau.  • Analyzed information such as data flow, data quality, patient demographics, patient follow-up, and overall patient encounters at various facilities to prepare recommendations for care management teams to formulate robust care plans. Used clinical terminologies such as ICD-10, ICD-9, CPT-4, LOINC, HCPCS, and SNOMED to assist with analysis.  • Used Analytics tool Clinical Analytics(formerly known as Clinical Looking Glass) to improve patient management as well as provide ad-hoc reporting, and provide training for CA to new-hires as well as students that attend the Bronx Community College course.  • Provided User Acceptance Testing of new features for CA as well as troubleshooting, ticket management, and user management for this Analytical application. Systems Administrator Papa's Pharmacy - Bronx, NY October 2012 to October 2013 • Migrated and updated Windows XP operating systems to Windows 7 and several types of Microsoft software applications.  • Configured new laptops and routers for secure wireless connectivity and maintained active network equipment.  • Implemented and configured various modules and components of Rx30 EHR.  • Trained end-users to use EHR software Rx30 to order prescriptions and capture patient data. Education Certificate in Enhanced Health IT Analytics Bronx Community College - Bronx, NY September 2015 to October 2015 Certificate in Computer Science Per Scholas Institute for Technology - Bronx, NY February 2014 to April 2014 Certificate in Interprofessional Healthcare Informatics University of Minnesota - Minneapolis, MN July 2012 to September 2012 Bachelor's in Health Science University of Florida - Gainesville, FL June 1995 to May 1999 Skills Sql server, Sql, Microstrategy, Teradata, Ssd, Visio, Backups, Vpn, Sata, Encryption, Networking, Optimization, Ms office, Lan, Windows 7, Mac, Mac os, Pata, Maintenance, Excel, Microsoft Office, Powerpoint, Business Intelligence, access Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/healthit?trk=nav_responsive_tab_profile_pic Certifications/Licenses Certified Health Technology Specialist March 2018 to March 2021 CompTIA Security+ September 2017 to September 2020