Network Operations Technician Network Operations Technician Linux Administrator Oakland, CA Experienced Linux Engineer seeking and new role and to advance career into Devops or an SRE role. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Operations Technician Location Labs - Emeryville, CA August 2017 to May 2018 • Continuously monitored and responded to alerts using tools such as Nagios, Kibana and Graphite and other monitoring software and tools.  • Troubleshoot Linux server operating issues.  • Performed routine smoke tests to ensure service availability.  • Participated in scheduled product updates and releases.  • Provided hands-on technical expertise during service impacting events.  • Demonstrated technical leadership by handling immediate alerts and troubleshooting.  • Facilitated communication throughout the organization during significant outages.. Desktop Support (Contract) Proteus Digital Health - Redwood, CA October 2015 to December 2015 • Prepared and imaged employee workstations.  • Used SCCM to deploy Windows images. Also, imaged Macintosh laptops.  • Deployed Microsoft Office 365 using SCCM and Active Directory Group Policy.  • Responded to employee troubleshooting requests in a timely manner. VMware Administrator Box - Los Altos, CA April 2015 to June 2015 • Virtualized Mac OS on Vmware Vsphere 6.0 for Box "sync" development team.  • Installed and configured Esxi 6 on 31 Mac Minis.  • Cloned Mac OS images with OS versions 10.8 - 10.10.  • Thoroughly documented build process and instructions for adding additional VM's to environment. Service Delivery Engineer (Contract) Qualys - Redwood Shores, CA May 2014 to December 2014 • Worked with service delivery team supporting Qualys SAAS platform.  • Supported and deployed code to web applications running Apache/PHP and Tomcat.  • Utilized Puppet to alter platform properties.  • Deployed 300+ Qualys scanner appliances to shared platforms.  • Managed puppet and yum repositories using versioning software such as git, svn, and monotone.  • Trained and mentored new service delivery engineers. Linux Administrator (Contract) Visa - Foster City, CA February 2013 to November 2013 • Worked primarily Red Hat Enterprise Linux, and also Windows Server.  • Deployed tomcat based, social business application "Jive" • Configured Postgres for backend database for Jive application server.  • Maintained SharePoint development environments.  • Facilitate communication between developers and software vendors as well as other infrastructure groups. Remote Operations Engineer Verizon Business - San Francisco, CA December 2007 to August 2012 • Provided server and web site support for major retail chains including The Gap, Urban Outfitters, Best Buy and Lowes. Major airlines including American Airlines and Jet Blue.  • Managed between 200 and 1500 servers per client in either a physical or virtualized environment running Solaris, AIX, HPUX, Red Hat and other Linux variants or Microsoft Windows Server.  • Responded to alerts for operating system and web application outages.  • Analyzed server logs to troubleshoot outages.  • Performed maintenance and upgrades for application servers.  • Coordinated hardware replacement for Dell and HP servers at multiple datacenter locations.  • Performed code deployments for Apache, WebSphere and IIS web servers.  • Managed and maintained Microsoft Active Directory and Exchange Server environments with up to 15,000 mailboxes.  • Managed server backups using Veritas Netbackup.  • Utilized monitoring tools such as HP Openview, SiteScope, and Microsoft Systems Center Operations Manager.  • Automated server maintenance and patching using BladeLogic, Opsware and Microsoft Systems Center Configurations Manager.  • Adhered to strict change management policy and SLAs. User Account Administrator The Clorox Company - Oakland, CA February 2006 to April 2007 Systems Administrator California Software Labs - Pleasanton, CA September 2005 to February 2006 Help Desk Representative Ragingwire Enterprise Solutions - Sacramento, CA February 2005 to September 2005 Education A.S. in Systems Administration Masters Institute 2016 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Apache (10+ years), Exchange (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Microsoft Windows (10+ years), Cisco, VPN (10+ years), LAN, Vmware (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Red Hat Enterprise Linux (10+ years), Linux Administrator (10+ years), Nagios (10+ years), SCCM (10+ years), BASH (10+ years), Python (5 years), MySQL (8 years), PostgresSQL (1 year), Kibana (1 year), Git (5 years), NFS (10+ years), KVM (5 years), Javascript (2 years), Windows Server (10+ years), Tomcat (6 years), AWS (1 year), TCP/IP (10+ years), Sharepoint (5 years), Load Balancers (6 years), Docker (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses Red Hat Certified System Administrator April 2016 to April 2019 Assessments Reliability — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's tendency to be dependable and come to work. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pncutu3rw56k3dcy Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ckgzs10nc52j-ik Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vqv9wnymengm7d6k Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.