Level 3 System Engineer Level 3 <span class="hl">System</span> Engineer IT Professional Austin, TX I have a background in IT work and have been working in the field for over 9 years now. I have specialized in mostly tier 2 support work but have been working as a Systems Administrator for the last five years. I have also done some brief programming work with C#, VB.net, batch scripting, PowerShell, PHP, and Javascript.    I have a lot of hands on experience with various technologies. In my most recent position I handled a lot of high level system administrator tasks such as server building and management, programming, scripting, automating, virtualization. I did everything from help desk tickets, planning and building vmware servers, software and hardware support, remote troubleshooting, Office 365 support, after hours support, maintaining base images for OS deployment, computer hardware upgrades, and many more tasks. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Level 3 System Engineer Vintage IT Services - Austin, TX January 2019 to Present My primary job is to handle projects that are assigned to me. Typically my projects include the entire on-boarding process with new clients from start to finish. Some of my recent projects include  • Building new images and reimaging all of the client's computers  • Putting the hardware together to build a VMware host  • Installing and configuring guest operating systems  • Building domain controllers  • Onsite hardware setup and deployment  • Performing physical to virtual server migrations  • Performing Windows 7 to Windows 10 migrations to meet the EOL deadline  On top of managing my projects, I also act as the team lead and third level of escalation for my team. They escalate their tickets to me if they are stuck on an issue for a certain period of time. I am always working with my teammates on ways to come up with new ideas and tactics to increase our workflow as a team. I go through my team's tickets on a weekly basis and follow up with each tech so that we're always on the same page. IT Technician Komatsu Equipment Co - Salt Lake City, UT May 2016 to September 2018 Supported roughly 400 end users across various remote locations across the Midwest region. Duties include typical help desk support, server virtualization, project management, equipment purchasing for the department, keeping audit logs, maintaining computer images for use with MDT, scripting, hardware upgrades, Office 365 user management, hardware support, and many other tasks. Jr Systems Administrator Cementation USA - Sandy, UT April 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities  Supported about 200 end users in different locations throughout the US  with TeamViewer and Sysinternals. I also helped manage and deploy  virtual servers, handled user accounts, and managed firewalls.  Responsibilities ranged from basic help desk support to high level  system admin work such as implementing new server hardware,  maintaining SQL servers, building Linux servers and server  virtualization. I used C#, VB.net, MySQL, and PHP to create several  applications that saved the company a lot of time and money.    Accomplishments  As a Jr Sys Admin, I took on a lot of the work like managing user and exchange accounts, building PCs, updating and maintaining my own virtual servers, coming up with creative solutions to certain tasks, and deploying updates so our Sr Sys Admin could focus on the company's growth.    I also saved the company a lot of money and time with my various programming projects. Instead of purchasing expensive software I was tasked with creating an in-house solution to accomplish the needs that we had. I used a combination of C#, VB.net, PHP, and MySQL.    Skills Used  I used a combination of help desk, system administrating, and programming. Some of the things I used on a daily basis are: VMWare, RDP, TeamViewer, Visual C#, VB.net, PHP, Linux Mint, Fedora, Active Directory, Exchange Management Console, Appassure, Notepad++, Watchguard System Manager, Shoretel, PuTTY, LAMP stack, Symantec Endpoint Protection manager, MySQL Client Support Technician Sumaria - Hill AFB, UT 2011 to 2013 Acted as tier 2 support with a primary focus on hardware support. I  would travel around Hill AFB and provide hands on computer support  such as hardware replacements, OS troubleshooting, peripheral  replacements, and OS upgrades. I was also the primary on call Video  Conference support, having to provide immediate support no matter  what else I was doing. This included video conference  hardware/software support as well as connecting to remote sites and  having the conference prepared for a scheduled meeting. Client Support Administrator Rylex - Hill AFB, UT 2009 to 2010 Tier 2 support for roughly 300 different computer users. Tasks included  patch management, remote support, hardware support, and AD  transfers. I also the team lead of three towards the end of my contract  and was in charge of the XP to Vista migrations. I also did manual patch  management and support on top secret computers which were locked  away and connected to a custom secure network. Point of Sales Technician (Helpdesk) Flying J - Ogden, UT 2008 to 2009 Help desk support which was done almost exclusively with Unix command line. My tasks included things such as remotely resetting hardware, handling private customer data, providing support for in house hardware, and using Windows RDP to manage touch screen terminals. I also had to help to create custom made network cables for the company's "Ross System" (Unix based). On weekends I would have to do remote support for bookkeepers who were not getting proper outputs due to buggy software. Education BS in Computer Science Stevens-Henager College - Ogden, UT 2008 to 2011 Skills Computer Hardware (10+ years), MySQL (2 years), SQL (2 years), C# (4 years), Windows Server (5 years), PHP (1 year), Vb.Net (2 years), Desktop Support (7 years), Vmware (3 years), System Administration (3 years), Visual Studio (10+ years), Exchange Server (2 years), It Specialist, Comptia, Information Technology, Secret Clearance Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ian-sapp-06279220 Certifications/Licenses Security+ 2009 to Present Additional Information Project highlights:    *Tech Lead: Assumed the role of Lead Technician for the 309th missile maintenance wing tier 2 support. Managed a small team of three (including myself) and supported roughly 300 users    *SIPR Administrator: Administrator for the Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet). Manually install and answer to TCNO calls, as well as maintain the machines up until compliance    *Windows 7 Deployment: Handled the upgrade of 300+ Windows 7 upgrades which included a combination of new hardware and reimaging of older ones all within a strict deadline.    *VTC Support lead: Managed various video teleconferencing systems including codecs, cameras, microphones, and performing on demand test calls when needed.    *Managed UNIX based servers: Managed various database entries and upkeep of over 100 UNIX based servers using remote tools such as Telnet and Remote UNIX X-Window applications.    *Programming projects: Took on the task of creating several different applications for the company. One combined our AD information with extracted data from our payroll system using Microsoft JET sql engine in VB.net. The software used a combination of CSV files, datatables, SQL commands, and encryption. The other software extracted our computer names from AD, deleted the prefix (which left just the computer's service tag which was our naming scheme). It then sent each service tag to Dell's servers using SOAP commands. The values were then returned and put into a nice list view (Things such as order date, expiration date, warranty end date, model type, etc). After this I extended the capabilities by having the software send all of the data to a custom made SQL database that I had created on my machine and hosted with a LAMP stack. Finally, a PHP page was developed to pull the data from the SQL table in order to present the data to upper management.