Network & Computer Systems Administrator - Junior Network &amp; Computer <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - Junior Network & Computer Systems Administrator - Junior - NDTI/DCS Ridgecrest, CA I’ve spent the last 8+ Years as a Multichannel Transmission Systems Operator- Maintainer (25Q) in the US Army and California National Guard. What that really translates to is working on STTs and cross training on CPN stacks to set up a network and keep it running for the duration of the mission. Now I am a Network and Computer Systems Administrator for the DoN  I am a task oriented, problem solver, who is capable of working well on my own or in a team. I am also a fun loving people person with an open mind. You could say working hard and playing hard are my two strongest personality traits. When it comes down to making the choice between fun and work, work always wins out. I take great satisfaction in completing a project, weather it be small or game changing. I also love learning something new, because I enjoy being prepared, and the more you know the more you are prepared for. In my life organization is key to accomplishing task, and wasted time is a thorn in my side.   I understand there are times when free time will be available in life. I take this time study for the next cert I wish to obtain. It gives me a chance to keep my mind active while learning a new trait to help my progress in life. There is no reason to be stagnant in life.  When I am not at work or studying/researching my life is my family, I have a beautiful wife and three amazing children with one on the way. Teaching my kids and learning from them is the most amazing feeling in the world to me. We like to stay active and Explore new places. I love that my kids have the same passion for knowledge that I do. Everything I do, I do for them, which is the greatest motivation to always do my best in whatever I do. Also if I can show them that my dedication will lead to successes through action they will learn hard work and dedication can get you anything. Work Experience Network & Computer Systems Administrator - Junior NDTI/DCS - China Lake, CA October 2018 to Present Implement and maintain Layers 1, 2, and 3 within network services; such as network drops, VLANs, spanning tree (STP), MAC-sticky, port security, Ether channel (PAGP and LACP).  • Conducted research and gave recommendations to improve processes for current network configurations and infrastructure.  • Configured switches on multiple networks, to meet all STIG requirements associated to each network.  • Performed monthly audits on all sensitive items within our teams responsibilities  • Installed cabinets, switches, security devices, UPSs, fiber drops, and copper drops  • Patched, configured, labeled, and documented every new connection  • Repairing damaged fiber and copper connections and drops, to include splicing.  • Reviewed daily system logs for any irregularities during off work hours. System Administrator/Satellite Technician California Army National Guard - Corona, CA November 2015 to November 2018 Maintained and administered computer networks and related computing environments which included computer hardware, systems software, applications software and all configurations for 150+ customers.  • Supervised, installed and operated organizational level maintenance on multichannel line-of-sight and tropospheric scatter communications systems valued at $200K  • Formulated, coordinated and implemented network security measures to protect data, software and hardware on equipment on over 20 consecutive projects.  • Consulted with users, management, vendors and technicians to assess computing needs and system requirements to ensure optimal working performance.  • Spearheaded and administered staff training programs using knowledge of the effectiveness of networking methods such as classroom training, demonstrations, on-the-job training, meetings and workshops; instructed 60 personnel and saved the organization $5K per trainee per class. NMCI Field Service Technician Marathon TS/DXC - Corona - Norco, CA April 2018 to October 2018 Provide helpdesk support to end-users of proprietary software and/or hardware for over 1,000 users.  • In charge of sourcing and obtaining peripherals and replacement parts for all computers in the organization.  • Document all issues and generate reports detailing common problems and error trends.  • Diagnose problems relating to Operating System Drivers, Firmware, and component problems.  • Provide onsite and remote client support.  • A good working knowledge of PC hardware, software, and network.  Professional Experience Continued Sub-Contractor Marathon TS/DXC - Corona - Barstow, CA January 2018 to April 2018 Windows 10 Migration Technician  Migrated DOD computer systems from Windows 7 to Windows 10 by replacing hardware and upgrading software for over 100 systems.  • Ensure all steps are performed for a successful upgrade of multiple laptops and desktops to include BIOS configurations and correct reimaging to securely migrate all systems to Windows 10.  • Work with each client using meticulous attention to detail to ensure all checklist items are completed, all applications are in working order, set up of new systems is seamless, and ensuring that all computers are issue free.  • Document all migrated systems and replaced systems deployment processes, to ensure consistency throughout the entire project. System Administrator/Satellite Technician United States Army April 2011 to November 2015 Oversaw communications network circuits and equipment and established data and voice operations. Developed and enforced communication standards in analyzing operations of equipment capabilities.  • Encrypted data transmissions and erected firewalls to conceal confidential transmitted information and prevented tainted digital transfers.  • Identified the causes of networking problems and reconfigured the issues accordingly which kept the unit fully operational during critical missions.  • Performed over 300+ data backups and disaster recovery operations; ensured the organization possessed the ability to access irreplaceable data in case of machine error, human error, virus or natural disaster.  • Developed plans to safeguard computer files against accidental and unauthorized modification, destruction, and disclosure while meeting emergency data processing needs. Education High school or equivalent in General Corona High School US Army Signal School Skills Cisco (6 years), Visio (2 years), Ios (6 years), Microsoft windows (3 years), Microsoft office (10+ years), Networking (8 years), Technical Support (8 years), Windows (3 years), Active Directory (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/john-serna-836686102 Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E-4 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ November 2017 to November 2020 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Software: Microsoft Office Suite  Putty  Visio  FileMaker Pro  VTC  Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows  Cisco IOS  Fabric OS