Salesforce Administrator, Business Intelligence Team Salesforce <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Business Intelligence Team Certified Salesforce Administrator Arvada, CO * Certified Salesforce.com Administrator  * Experienced in implementations of all sizes and levels of complexity (up to 15,000+ worldwide users)  * Expert in working with Salesforce ETL tools (Data Loader, CRMFusion / DemandTools, Workbench)  * Integration Expertise (NetSuite, Celigo, Hubspot, Zendesk, Outreach, LinkedIn Sales Navigator)  * Hands-on experience in managing/creating customizations with Marketing Automation Platforms (Hubspot, Eloqua, Marketo)  * Regular advisor to technical/functional teams on Salesforce.com best practices to mitigate technical, security or operational risks while maximizing platform capabilities  * Extensive training experience in both group settings and 1:1 interactions with sales, operations, support, and management teams  * Eclipse / Force.com IDE development experience (Apex/Visualforce)  * Skilled communicator, with strong blend of business, technical and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Salesforce Administrator, Business Intelligence Team Mersive Technolgies, Inc - Denver, CO August 2018 to April 2019 Description: Owner of Salesforce for Mersive Technolgies, including maintenance and management of ERP (NetSuite) integration and technical lead for all Salesforce enhancements. Day-to-day duties include: user management / setup, proactive monitoring and maintenance of ERP integration (including error-resolution and related system enhancements), reporting/analytics duties and project management for new enhancements and automation. Regularly engage with sales, marketing, support and operations teams to maximize value from CRM investment while maintaining best practies and database health. Consultant Statera, Inc - Denver, CO April 2018 to June 2018 Project-based consulting role, providing remote and on-site support for Salesforce projects for local and national clients. Specific projects included: Lightning Migration (assessment, implementation and training) as well as roadmap construction for SFDC lifecycle planning and scalability. Senior Salesforce Administrator, Sales Operations InVisionApp, Inc May 2017 to January 2018 Description: Responsible for Salesforce user setup, new tools provisioning, data integrity, managing and implementing complex customizations and empowering the sales, marketing and support teams for success. Independent Contractor EnergySavvy, Inc February 2016 to May 2017 accomplishments include: new Case implementation for standardized Salesforce support processes leveraging approvals, Opportunity Split forecast automation / analysis, advanced Account automation / configurations (Workflows, Flows, Process Builder) and improved email alert and notifications, resulting in quicker turnaround/resolution time for all inbound and internal requests.    2/2016 - 05/2017 EnergySavvy, Inc. Remote  Independent Contractor  Description: Remote administration of Salesforce.com environments, responsible for gathering requirements, best practice advisement, thorough testing and on-time delivery and deployment of all customizations and enhancements.  Duties include:customizations to standard and custom objects to track sales activities / performance while leveraging automation to capture and retain key data points used in reports and dashboards with the goal of empowering management and executive teams to make data-driven decisions and identify sales cycle bottlenecks. Additional duties include using installed AppExchange products to further extend the capabilities of the platform to meet ever-changing business needs and maintaining consistency between sandbox and production environments through regular sandbox refreshes. Salesforce.com Administrator / Developer, Business Systems SurveyMonkey - Palo Alto, CA April 2015 to February 2016 Description: Served as sole Salesforce.com Administrator for newly-formed Business Systems team. Duties included: user management, workflow modifications / creation and was a regular contributor to Business Systems team in advising on CRM best practices. Primary point-of-contact with external vendors/contractors and regularly worked with third parties to identify, resolve and escalate technical issues. Education Electrical Engineering Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY August 1998 to May 1999 Skills Salesforce, Salesforce Admin, Apex, Visualforce Certifications/Licenses Certified Salesforce Administrator April 2018 to Present Additional Information ? Certified Salesforce.com Administrator  ? Experienced with implementations of all sizes and levels of complexity (up to 15,000+ worldwide users)  ? Experienced in wide variety of ETL / Marketing automation tools (CRM Fusion / DemandTools, Workbench, Data Loader, Marketo, Eloqua, etc.)  ? ERP Integration Expertise (NetSuite)  ? Skilled communicator with a passion for delivering high-quality, courteous and professional support and training to groups/individuals either in person or remotely.