Systems Administrator I , IT support II, c# .net developer <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I , IT support II, c# .net developer Software Developer/IT Support/ Systems Adminstrator Porter, TX I am a hard working self starter. I like to solve problems and I hate the word "can't". I jump into projects and I am not afraid to drill for information and working with my team to find not only temporary fixes but also solid solutions. I am a life long student and I spend tons of time on Stackoverflow, GitHub, and sites such as Udemy as well as Pluralsight. I also post "How to Videos" and articles on technology and programming. I believe part of learning is also teaching. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator I , IT support II, c# .net developer DENTAL SYSTEMS INC - Huffman, TX December 2016 to Present Openstack management of instances and volumes, 3cx phone server support, desktop support including VNC Shadow for Remote Clients and Gotomeetings, technology help desk II, JR systems administrator, PF Sense firewall management, Cisco VPN programming for remote users using IKE1 and IKE2 keying, remote user support, software and hardware troubleshooting and support including printer and fax setup, c# .Net programming API endpoints. Data management, client side applications, RSA, AES, and JSON webtoken implementation. Experience with Windows API and building custom Windows Drivers (built a custom v4 print driver). Windows forms and data manipulation experience. Model Veiw Control client and website projects using .Net and asp.net. Support node.js backend , SQL query using LINQ. Ubuntu and Windows server experience, css, html5, bootstrap, and angular projects. WordPress Developer Kingwood Techkings - Kingwood, TX November 2014 to August 2016 Build and transfer customer websites using CSS, HTML5, JS, Wordpress, some .php. Set up mysql databases for client websites, build ecommerce sites in wucommerce , SEO, advertising. C# API backends. Grapic design using photoshop to create custom logos and .eps files. Technical Support Specialist Houston Independent School District - Houston, TX July 2013 to May 2014 Technology in schools application of various technologies in the classroom. Set up computers for students and teachers. Monitor firewalls and change user settings such as new users, pw changes and migration to new group policies. Manage groups and group policies. Setup software profiles for machines. Troubleshoot software and hardware issues. Education AS Computer Programming in Computer Science Baker College of Allen Park - Flint, MI May 2013 to December 2016 Skills sql (3 years), vmware (3 years), firewalls (3 years), vpn (4 years), active directory (1 year), Phones (3 years), C# (3 years), Wordpress (2 years), CSS3 (1 year), HTML 5 (2 years), Windows Server 2008 (2 years), Networking (4 years), Enterprise Software (1 year), .NET (3 years), SQL (2 years), System Administration (3 years), Node.js (Less than 1 year), C++ (1 year), Javascript (1 year), BootStrap (1 year), Computer Hardware (7 years), Software Development (3 years), Kanban (2 years), Git (3 years), Desktop Support (3 years), Angular, MVC, Jquery, ASP, VNC Shadow (4 years), Desktop Support (5 years), Windows (10+ years), Ubuntu (3 years), Technical Support (6 years), Printers (6 years), 3CX Phone System (3 years), OS Ticket (2 years), Virtualization (5 years), PF Sense (3 years), WCF, API (3 years), RSA - Blowfish - SSL - HMAC512 (4 years), Help Desk (3 years), System Administrator (3 years), System Admin (3 years), Powershell (3 years) Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qx8hfssaypvma5td Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nnefkzjlxf8h5ost Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.