Application Support Analyst Application Support Analyst Citrix Administrator Dallas, TX Work Experience Application Support Analyst PocketSuite Inc. - San Francisco, CA April 2018 to December 2018 Was responsible for designing the workflow for a key feature being offered to clients that allows them to quickly get their business integrated and able to use the PocketSuite platform after an earlier launch from before I joined the team. While not managing, designing, and documenting the aforementioned Imports feature; I assisted the Customer Success team in daily operations, was involved in application planning and design, was responsible for testing out new features and enhancements each week, ensured bugs were being resolved, and advocated on behalf of clients for specific features to be added/modified/etc. Given that this is a startup I touched upon all teams daily, my daily routine involved all aspects of the business, but I primarily maintained my focus on infrastructure and process improvement.  IT Administrator Carrollton, TX - Carrollton, TX July 2017 to August 2018 Responsible for the maintenance and support of all aspects of the IT Infrastructure involving, but not limited to, maintenance and design of Hyper-V cluster structures, Blackberry Exchange Server, SQL 2010, IBM MaaS360, GoCanvas, ShoreTel, Concur, Exchange 365/Azure, FMAudit, e-Automate, and Veeam solutions. When not resolving issues with the aforementioned, further duties include assisting clients with any technical issues they have while utilizing the services of Precision Document Solutions. Citrix Administrator Fairway Independent Mortgage December 2015 to November 2016 Focused on performing intermediate issue analysis and resolution, identify root causes of issues, respond to server alerts and system outages and escalating with vendors if necessary. Generated knowledge base articles and issue resolution scripts for Tier-1 troubleshooting workflows, managed citrix user profiles in XenApp 6.5 to current, and coordinated the branch migration project. Due to the nature of Citrix environment it also required that senior desktop support and/or executive desktop responsibilities as well. Also, because of the nature of the environment, all deployed desktops were managed via virtual machines that were spun up each morning from a golden image when the servers were rebooted as a part of general farm maintenance. Information Systems Analyst II Williams Pipeline June 2013 to October 2015 Functioned as overnight support for the Williams Service Desk by resolving reported computer issues, unlocking user accounts within AD, Oracle, etc. Coordinated and assisted with several company-wide projects. Functioned as interim SDM for system outages that occurred at night. Secondary responsibilities included verifying SQL database functionality and Citrix viability. Systems Administrator Transfield Services - North America October 2012 to April 2013 Served as onsite executive support for all Transfield offices in the Greater Houston metroplex, and served on a team of three that supported all North American operations. Responsible for upkeep and maintenance of all computer hardware, printers, and A/V conferencing equipment.  Executive Support Lincoln Property Company - Dallas, TX February 2012 to June 2012 Provided executive support for LPC's downtown Dallas office and all satellite offices in the DFW metroplex resolving all computer and printer issues. Maintained or updated existing infrastructure and deployed new assets at all LPC branch offices and managed communities. Other support functions included tier 1 support for the Yardi platform which Lincoln used to manage their properties. IT Generalist Daikin manufacturing - Carrollton, TX May 2011 to November 2011 Initially brought in to assist on an Active Directory overhaul and cleanup project that extended into several subsequent projects. Later assignments included asset compliance projects, overseeing the research, design, and implementation of a new corporate data center, and daily troubleshooting and maintenance of existing infrastructure. When not working directly on existing projects, the department was in charge of all facets of IT support ranging from desktop support to server maintenance on deployed in VMware and Citrix, and environments. Technical Support Analyst Computer Sciences Corporation - Coppell, TX July 2007 to January 2010 Functioned as first and second tier support for United Technologies Corporation troubleshooting VPN connectivity errors and general computer-related issues covering all approved windows software. Was primary workflow contact for all escalation issues and was responsible for training new members to the team as necessary. Tier 3 Technical Support DG FastChannel - Iriving, TX September 2006 to July 2007 Provided tier 3 support for commercial video and radio spot delivery infrastructure via three separate proprietary platforms. Aside from troubleshooting existing infrastructure the department also provided as-is support for Telestream, Sundance, Harris, and Flip Factory equipment. Personally coordinated and completed a project to reduce department overhead by $30,000.00 annually through deployment of new hardware and reconfiguration of existing hardware. Further projects were assigned through merit of previous project's success. Education Associate Skills Citrix (5 years), Oracle (2 years), SQL (2 years), training (2 years), VPN (5 years), Windows (10+ years), Mac OS X (10+ years), Servers (10+ years), Linux (3 years), Windows Server (10+ years), Network Administration (3 years) Certifications/Licenses HIPAA February 2019 to February 2021 HIPAA Certification Additional Information Motivated, personable, business professional with ability to quickly master new challenges. Diplomatic, tactful, and accustomed to handling sensitive and confidential records with the utmost of discretion. Extremely flexible and versatile, thriving and excelling in challenging environments with teamwork, foresight, and creative problem-solving.    Skills Summary  ? Exchange Administration  ? Support for Apple OS 10.0 and higher  ? Application Support  ? ITIL and Six Sigma experience  ? Network/TCP/IP Troubleshooting  ? Project Coordination and Management    ? Asset Management  ? SAP Support  ? Dameware, Bomgar, LogMeIn, Altiris, etc.  ? ServiceNow, HEAT, Magic, Remedy, Spiceworks  ? VPN experience  ? Linux experience    ? Microsoft Windows Server 08/10  ? Active Directory Administration  ? Citrix XenApp Administration  ? MySQL, MS SQL, Oracle  ? Salesforce experience  ? Experience training technical support personnel