Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer Pen Argyl, PA I'm an experienced Systems Engineer with a proven track record for diagnosing complex problems. I've led several high-profile projects and have competencies in Linux, VMware, Windows, security, and scripting. I'm skilled in designing and deploying an enterprise support infrastructure that supports users in both a corporate headquarters and in remote locations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer Flexential December 2014 to August 2019 Resolved level 2 and level 3 ticket escalations in a timely manner. Implemented new technologies to streamline and automate processes, managed the internal cloud infrastructure, and completed root-cause analysis for service interruptions. Recommended performance enhancing configurations, wrote several scripts to improve efficiency, and applied best practices related to server hardening. Built Windows/Linux systems, defined processes, and streamlined production system procedures. Oversaw Puppet deployment for automation and systems configuration efforts.    • Served as Technical Lead for 3 domain and Office 365 migration projects; met timelines and specifications while saving $10K monthly.  • Saved $20K in annual costs by implementing a consolidated spam filter solution  • Reduced virtualization license count by 20% through migrating VM's to a newer hardware.  • Subject Matter Expert for Office 365 and Active Directory processes, systems, and improvements.  • Upgraded 3 endpoint management suites with Microsoft System Center, resulting in $50K reduction in licensing expenses. Systems Administrator LSI Corporation July 2007 to November 2014 Delivered enterprise product architecture and support to SharePoint, Active Directory, Windows Server, Project Server, Office 365, Exchange, Lync, SCCM and VMware. Established SRM for VMWare, enhanced end-user authentication experiences by launching SAMLv2 SSO, and designed the SharePoint 2007 infrastructure. Led VMWare and Windows virtualization efforts, directed cross-functional team projects, allocated resources, and migrated end-users from Jabber solution to an OpenFire chat server.    • Quadrupled virtualization footprint by implementing a global VM environment; succeeded in avoiding significant costs and met 75% of goal by June 2014.  • Managed and updated Active Directory users, lowered server build times through VM templates, documented all scripts, and developed accurate budget forecasts.  • Achieved 900% data growth and adoption over a 4-year period through establishing SharePoint 2007 farms.  • Launched a low-cost SharePoint Disaster Recovery plan with RTO of 3 hours and RPO of 15 minutes; utilized already purchased storage replication to protect ERP data.  • Mentored and guided MSI teams, led data center relocation efforts, and executed several modernization projects. Education Associates in Specialized Business in Network Infrastructure and Design Information Computer Systems Institute September 1999 to January 2001 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, NETWORKING, PUPPET, VIRTUALIZATION, SCRIPTING, System Administrator, Vmware, SCCM, Powershell, Linux, DNS, AWS, Cloud Computing (3 years) Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Foundation October 2017 MCSE January 2001 Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  • Active Directory • Linux • Networking • O365 • Postfix • Puppet • SQL • Scripting •Security • System Center • Virtualization • Windows