Systems Engineer Sr <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Sr Systems Engineer Sr - The Church of Jesus Christ West Point, UT Work Experience Systems Engineer Sr The Church of Jesus Christ - Salt Lake City, UT 2000 to Present Timeline of responsibilities  ? 2015-present  ? Engineering and support of 150+ windows servers which reside at various sites globally outside of the US.  ? Migration of employees to Microsoft O365. This includes the migration of on-premises data to OneDrive for Business, SharePoint online.  ? Engineering, implementation, and support of cloud app security within the O365 environment to secure all content. This included the design and implementation of on-premises hardware security modules and key management which is used in the company's O365 tenant to encrypt/decrypt content rather than using the vendor's keys. Implementation of DLP, (data loss protection), and RMS (rights management services) of company content within the O365 tenant.  ? Project Support. Engineer new solutions for departmental projects and applications.  ? 2010-2014  ? PKI/Encryption/Security - Engineered, implemented, and supported internal PKI including certificate management and proximity card system along with defining policy and separation of duties procedures.  ? Microsoft Active Directory Implementation & Support. Played key role in a project to design and setup a new Active Directory environment in preparation for Exchange, SharePoint, and other Microsoft products. This included designing the forest/domain structure, sites, number and placement of Domain Controllers, replication links, OU structure, disaster recovery, and design of Microsoft Certificate Services. In addition to the implementation I was also responsible for on-going support. My responsibilities included AD troubleshooting, server administration, creating and administrating GPO's, administrating AD sites, AD backup and restore, administrating AD objects, AD health, AD auditing and reporting, AD schema, AD 3rd party integration, LDAP imports of objects into the directory, Microsoft DNS, and Microsoft certificate services. Systems Administrator Novell June 2000 to November 2000 * Install, setup, and configured hardware on all Compaq servers contained in Novell's Provo data center.  * Installed and configured OS (NetWare, NT, and 2000) on all Compaq servers contained in Novell's Provo data center.  * In charge of troubleshooting all NetWare, NT, and 2000 servers contained in Novell's Provo data center. This included troubleshooting issues such as Network connectivity, client/server, performance, GroupWise mail system, DS, rights and authentication, and server optimization. Systems Administrator Novell January 1999 to June 2000 * Team Lead. Participated and conducted periodic trainings for members of the team.  * Tech support for all Novell Employees. (GroupWise, Windows OS, Dos, NetWare, Microsoft Office Suite, Network Connectivity, Hardware troubleshooting, and all client/server issues). Administered the Novell network and GroupWise system including account administration, library administration, remote administration. Novell - Provo, UT 1999 to 2000 Education BS in Telecommunications Administration in Telecommunications Administration Weber State Univ - Ogden, UT Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DNS, PKI, SECURITY, VMWARE, AUDITING Additional Information Key Skills  Windows Server, Windows Active Directory, DNS  O365 cloud technologies  PKI/Certificates,  Security, Data  Loss Protection,  Rights Management,  Auditing  VMware ESX & Virtual Center  HP & Dell Hardware Support