Jr Estimator\Assistant Project Manager\Purchasing Manager\Warehouse Manager Jr Estimator\Assistant Project Manager\Purchasing Manager\Warehouse Manager Jr. Project Manager / Jr Estimator / Purchaser for larger company Costa Mesa, CA To obtain a position as a team-player in a people-oriented organization where I can maximize my customer-service experience with my self-starter/can do attitude in a challenging, fast-paced environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Jr Estimator\Assistant Project Manager\Purchasing Manager\Warehouse Manager ESI CONTRACTING - Huntington Beach, CA April 2018 to Present Completed commercial estimates ranging up to $200,000; served as Project Manager Assistant for electrical projects up to $2M, and Jr. Project Manger on projects valued at $1M. (expediting materials per project requirements).    Teamed with Sr. Estimator, Project Manager & Field Superintendents to enforce company safety requirements, ensuring the projects were installed per plans / specifications; presenting owner with change orders when necessary.  Working with project schedules.  Created accurate electrical estimates and developed suitable budgets and schedules for projects.  Handled project administration and materials procurement; oversaw job cost tracking and AIA billing procedures.  Trained departmental office staff and supervised field personnel; led document control practices for all projects. Apprentice Electrician/Low Voltage/High Voltage Nazzareno Electric - Anaheim, CA October 2016 to April 2018 Experience working with Tenant Improvement, and outdoor electrical environments.  • Install and repair building electrical systems.  • Take every opportunity to learn about system design, installation, and code requirements.  • Arrange wiring, fixtures, and conduit boxes in preparation for installations.  • Crawl into tight spaces, onto ladders, and into attics to complete projects  • Learn about fans, lighting fixtures, and other electrical items attached to system and install properly.  • Troubleshoot electrical faults and fixture problems  • Obtain precision measurements such as volt and ohm readings  • Interpret blueprints, schematics, and diagrams.  • Assist in budgeting new projects Junior Systems Administrator Intero Real Estate 2016 to October 2016 Experience configuring, monitoring, upgrading and maintaining systems hardware and software.  Strong analytical skills; able to train agents with different levels of computer skills on new system updates, new formatting styles and basic computer knowledge.  Knowledge of all operating systems; Windows XP, Vista 7, 8, 10, microsoft office.  File Management  Photoshop graphics design; created and designed current company website.  Transaction coordination  Network administration Support Specialist Auto Custom Creations - Battle Ground, WA January 2015 to June 2015 • Part time help with auto body work and metal fabrication.  • Shop upkeep; sweeping, cleaning and inventory count.  • Greet customers  • Answer phones Prep Cook Frontier Public House - Vancouver, BC June 2014 to December 2014 • Chopped vegetables and fruits for cooking  • Made salads and put together entrees  • Prepared meat for cooking, various styles as dictated by the Head Chef  • Prepared ingredients as instructed  • Ensure ovens and stoves were clean and ready to be used.  • Cleaned kitchen counters and other prep and work stations  • Washed dishes and cooking utensils  Key values: Fast-paced, strong attention to detail and working under pressure.    Wendy's Old Fashioned Hamburgers, Vancouver WA 11$ 5/29/13 - 5/31/2014  Safety Marshall  • Responsible for opening and closing activities.  • Became the go-to person for any and all process questions.  • Exemplified excellent customer service to guests.  • Always looked for things to improve and make more efficient where I could. Groundskeeper The Sam and Alfreda Maloof Foundation for Arts and Crafts 2008 to 2008 Volunteered grounds keeping during the summer season.  Responsibilities included trimming shrubs, pulling out trees, planting trees, creating irrigation and waterways and moving earth to create new planting areas. I worked with a grounds trainer and one other crewmember. Used a large variety of hand gardening tools and equipment as well as some pesticides and fertilizers. Education Clark College 2012 Hockinson High School 2012 Skills WIRING, BLUEPRINT, BLUEPRINT READING, NEC CODES, CHANGE ORDERS, BUDGETS, COST TRACKING, ESTIMATOR, OSHA, PHOTOSHOP, CUSTOMER SERVICE, 104 WPM, BILLING, JOB COST, DOCUMENT CONTROL, EXCEL, OUTLOOK, POWERPOINT, MICROSOFT WORD, WORD Links http://clark.edu Assessments Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fdtkckrubfkw5stg Organizational Skills — Proficient August 2019 Arranging and managing information or materials using a set of rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6dwkelz03aes6og Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.