IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Administrator - Good Omen Bottling, Wild Tonic Kombucha Cave Creek, AZ A Network Administrator with 17 years' experience managing skilled IT professionals, designing, installing, configuring, administering and troubleshooting local area network systems and IP security systems. A desire to build secure networks and foster new skills will make me your go-to person and will make your IT department more accessible. Being up to date on the latest IT Trends and equipment will keep your firm on the cutting edge. Goal-oriented and results driven in combination with outstanding organizational skills has been a great asset and a key to my success. An ability to work under minimal supervision and able to follow directions. Provide leadership by utilizing effective communication skills and team building.    Skills & Competencies  • Server Virtualization, VMWare/ vSphere, EXI  • Recovery Techniques, Veeame, MS Server Backup,    • Some Cloud/SaaS, AWS, Azure  Cloud Backup experience    • LAN/WAN Admin, SolarWinds, Netwrix  • Project Development, MS Project 2016    • Security/compliance/HIPPA  • Cisco CCUM 5.1    • Workflow Planning, SharePoint, Google Doc's  • Lansweeper, MS Server Manager    • Help desk/technical support  • Cisco WAP's, Ubiquity Access Points    • Process Improvement  • Server 2008/2012/2016R2    • SAN Management, Synology • Cyber Security, Spiceworks • Business Management, Business Continuity Plans Work Experience IT Systems Administrator Good Omen Bottling, Wild Tonic Kombucha September 2016 to Present September 2016-Present)  Good Omen Bottling is the creator and manufacturer of Wild Tonic. A new start-up beverage producer that is growing rapidly. Now selling an alcohol version that has really gained national acceptance in is brief time in the market. With our current production / bottling location close to completion and outgrown, the owners are looking at future locations.    IT Systems Administrator  Responsibilities include planning, designing and building the network for our current locations including IP phone systems, (Avaya) and IP Cameras by AXIS and HikiVision and Ubiquity Access points covering all areas. Building in flexibility to meet the current and future network demands has been exciting and a rare opportunity.  1. Decommissioned Greenfield facility infrastructure fiber and CAT6, consolidated operations to two locations. Used HP switches, Fortinet Appliance, Dell Servers and Synology 12 bay storage device.  2. Built a secure and reliable Dell PowerEdge server network with for physical servers and 16 VM's at two locations ready to scale economically.  3. Deployed more than 16 servers on four physical servers utilizing VMware, vSphere 6.0EXI and Veeame to perform backups.  4. Designed and installed multi door RFID PROX button security system incorporating security cameras under budget.  5. Adopted "O'Beer Orchestrated", a brewery management solution built upon SAP and MS SQL 2014, installed O'Beer clients in user devices to enable staff interface connection. Set up and tested security settings from user file level to server SQL access permissions.  6. Competent in managing and troubleshooting Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, WINS, GPO and Exchange user restoration and management.  7. Designed and built a primary secure server space and a mirror backup replication server at secondary location.  8. Provide technical support to our local and national users and their PC's, Laptops and printers. Supporting Mac, Windows 10, Windows 7, Chrome and Android devices.  9. Drove a 99.5% online in Exchange. Implemented Mimecast email security/spam filter. Corrected server configuration problems that ensure smooth reboots and smooth daily operations. Experience in moving users to another database to clear errors, PowerShell.  10. Manage Active Directory, DNS and Microsoft Exchange 2016 user and privileging of folder management and security.  11. Avaya, Cisco and Alcatel VOIP network management, phone IP assignment and management.  12. Fortigate firewall appliance management and VPN user setup and network access privileges monitoring'.  13. Experience deploying Cisco and Ubiquity WAPS and switches. Set up layer 3 and 4 switches to manage traffic. LAN Administrator Devereux - Scottsdale, AZ February 2001 to 2016 Scottsdale, AZ (February 2001-2016)  Devereux is the largest not for profit providers of adolescent behavioral healthcare in the United States. With over 6500 employees in 16 different states. The headquarters for Arizona is in Scottsdale with offices and facilities in 16 locations from Tucson to Scottsdale.    LAN Administrator  Managed a team of IT professionals responsible for all local office systems, printers, applications, servers, routers and switches over 16 locations. Responsibility included the supervision & operation of 140 IP cameras and 86 RFID controlled automated door locks systems at three different secure locations. Maintained a Level 1 clearance from DPS, Department of Public Safety for 15 years. Performed BCP "Business Continuity Plan" preparation biannually. Acted as regional HIPPA Security Officer for Arizona.    • Created and installed images, application patching, driver update installation, backup applications, and antivirus software for workstations, laptops, and network servers.  • Managed Active Directory, DNS, Exchange, Citrix and SharePoint for 500 employees and independent contractors.  • Program and support employee mobile devices for email, VPN, business apps and communications.  • Configure and maintain network hardware including routers, switches and security appliances.  • Resolve escalated TIER 3 Help Desk tickets relating to server, network, and connectivity issues.  • Installed and configured, 450+ workstations, supporting Ethernet networks, multiple VPN's, BGP and IPsec, network cabling, phones, printers and peripheral equipment in 16 different physical locations.  • Set up (work from home) employees to work virtually for a realized saving of $100,000 annually in office leases and expenses.  • Reviewed and maintained user accounts using Exchange and AD, adding/deleting users and profiles, correcting user access problems, and assigning and reviewing appropriate file/folder group rights and privileges. Education Dauphin County Vocational Technology Mesa Community College - Harrisburg, PA Skills Technical Support, Networking, Vmware, Active Directory, Windows