Lead Systems Administrator / Site Lead Lead <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Site Lead Lead Systems Administrator / Site Lead - General Dynamics IT Corp Picayune, MS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Systems Administrator / Site Lead General Dynamics IT Corp - Stennis Space Center, MS January 2004 to Present Current, Active Top Secret SCI Clearance  Perform duties as the lead systems administrator responsible for all aspects of an enterprise IT architecture.  In the role, I successfully managed the implementation and upgrades of servers from Windows 2008R2 to Windows 2016R2. I planned and implemented VMware virtualization capabilities, which reduced the total number of required physical servers, and significantly reduced yearly maintenance and replacement costs.  I Implemented McAfee EPO suite across the enterprise, utilizing HBSS, DLP, Anti-Virus & Auditor. I prepared the architecture for Navy required re-accreditation using published guidelines by DISA through STIGs and patches and received a pass rating on the first inspection. I replaced legacy storage systems with an I6000 Scalar tape library system and migrated over 32 petabytes of data to new tape storage system. I developed new Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) to move critical data offsite for archival storage. I integrated a new Netapp FAS8200 storage system in the architecture to replace an older Netapp FAS3210 system. Migrated all data from our older Netapp 3200 system to a FAS 8200 system with very little down time to our customers. Established a Netapp server virtual machines (SVM) comprised of NFS and iSCSI protocols to hold 10 virtual domain controllers and member severs.  Created additional SVM's to store volumes accessible through SMB/CIFS.  Created multiple aggregates to accommodate growth over the years increasing volume space and additional storage trays made available to our customer.  I routinely monitored our Netapp, Commvault (Tape) storage and servers for capacity and additional problems that would arise. I managed lifecycle replacement of 90+ Workstations in a production environment, including deployment of Windows 10 Secure Host Baseline (Project was completed well in advance of established deadline). I enabled full systems auditing on all systems across the enterprise. I upgraded older Exchange Server software to a newer version with minimal down time. I routinely work closely with customers and vendors as needed to provide trouble-shooting solutions on various products. I established a development network and stood up several workstations for testing software patches and hotfixes. I installed a Windows WSUS server to manage patches for the enterprise using established guidelines from DISA. I updated an existing conference room touch screen enabled projection board to enhance methods briefing capabilities. I performed systems administration duties to manage Solaris and Windows XP, 2003 systems to include managing backup and recovery of the OS and Sybase database, DNS, upgrades to software and firmware. I analyzed Sun Microsystems software/hardware using scripts and commercial software, provided metrics and recommendations for performance tuning to Factory Engineers. I installed and configured hardware/software, maintained user accounts and wrote scripts to perform system backups and monitor hardware and software. I transitioned 4 Windows 2003 physical servers to VMware environment, significantly decreasing our physical footprint. I created power shell scripts to expedite the movement of audit data to long term storage to tape. I created scripts to import our WSUS database from our primary WSUS server, to our WSUS located on our standalone network significantly reducing the time to import. I developed additional scripts to expire unused accounts after 30 days of inactivity and user information from Active Directory. As the Site Lead for my company, I managed four additional individuals working in three different Navy Departments.  My duties required me to conduct interviews, hire individuals fulfilling contract obligations. I insured all company training was completed to include additional training designated by our customer.  I conducted performance reviews on each individual yearly with quarterly reviews as to their progression and reevaluation. Systems Administrator U.S. Army September 1984 to June 2004 Imagery Analyst Retired Rank E-6 (Staff Sergeant)  Various Locations Worldwide  I managed the daily imagery operations on the Dissemination Element (DE) system ordering products in support of an on-going world crisis. I provided computer/network troubleshooting for UNIX/Windows environment. I managed web access support for imagery products. I provided training on DE, Imagery Exploitation Support System (IESS), Remote View, CSIL (commercial imagery) ordering, web admin (FrontPage, DreamWeaver), 3D model development, Multiple-Image Exploitation Tool (MET), DE Client & Microsoft Office. I was the lead systems administrator and resolved LAN/computer issues related to Windows 2000 and UNIX systems. I initiated and supervised the installation, operation and maintenance of three LANs (3 classification levels). I managed daily operations, improved functionality and trained users. As the appointed systems control officer in charge of 40+ computers on four separate LAN architectures, I supported 85+ users, and tracked system development life cycles to ensure all equipment met operational requirements. I managed the migration to Windows 2000 Pro. I identified and corrected security flaws on classified networks. I performed hardware maintenance on various IT equipment. I developed new database maintenance and accountability SOPs for all communications equipment. I P provided daily assistance to users as needed. I installed and deployed 80+ Red Hat Linux systems throughout Fort Bragg service units in preparation for deployment, and I trained support staff to maintain the systems for the deployed systems. I managed intelligence databases in direct support of deployments to Bosnia, established training curriculum and SOPs ensuring system readiness, and maintained operational intelligence networks. I centralized web pages for four US Army Divisions at the Ground Intelligence Support Activity (GISA) and provided training on remote web administration. Education High school or equivalent Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Red Hat (3 years), System Admin (10+ years), Vmware, Vsphere Administration (10+ years), System Administrator Windows Servers, Workstations, Enterprise environments (10+ years), Redhat (3 years), Linux Administrator (3 years), Linux (3 years), Netapp Administration, 7Mode, Clustered Ontap (10+ years), McAfee EPO Administrator (3 years), Commvault (10+ years), NetBackup (4 years), Vmware, System Administrator Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Staff Sergeant Certifications/Licenses Security CE + exp:2022 Present Network CE expire:2022 Additional Information I have 25+ years of experience as a senior / lead systems administrator in numerous data centers and DOD SCIF environments utilizing Windows servers and workstations and Linux servers at the Enterprise level.