Electronic Technician Electronic Technician Salisbury, MD Willing to relocate Work Experience Electronic Technician AV3 - Mechanicsville, MD Present • Assisting with the permanent installation and Mounting of equipment, such as. projectors, projection screens, monitors, speakers, and microphones, to ceilings and walls in secure spaces  • Configuring AV equipment including Extron, Crestron, AMX, CISCO, ClearOne, and Biamp  • Fabricating, terminating, and installing AV and IT cabling; RJ-45, DB-9, 3.5mm, and XLR  • Configuring video conferencing solutions Polycom and CISCO  • Testing, commissioning, and troubleshooting of various AV systems  • Assisting in troubleshooting and diagnosing existing AV systems  • Working with cabling and equipment under tables, in equipment racks, on scaffolding, and ladders  • use of various power tools System Administrator, Electronics Technician BAE Systems Present Audio Visual, Electronics, Network Technician:    • Configured, installed, troubleshot, replaced and or conducted Preventative maintenance and Corrective Maintenance on different hardware/ tactical systems such as    • Polycom VTC  • Dell precision R7610 computers  • Dell precision R5500 computers  • Extron Receivers & Transmitters  • Matrix and KVM switches  • Dell Tablets  • IBM, Oracle, Sun Blades (replaced RAM, blades and configured)  • Tactical air craft carrier consoles/ cages  • Dell ESX servers ( migrated, test and maintenance on VMS within Servers)  • SAS storage, Layer 2 and 3 cisco switches for Canes Network  • Patch panel (fiber optics and standard network cable)  • Experience in a Tactical environment     • Facilated meetings when necessary for high level personnel  • Responsible for end user support  • Developing and upgrading new hardware and software for AV infrastructure to interface with multiple applications and consoles.  • Assisted with systems such as GCCS, Canes, CIWS and tomahawk to help head technicians in meetings and maintenance on each system when necessary IT System Analyst StraCon Services Group - River, MD, US February 2018 to August 2018 Supervisor: Doug Mederos (540) 903-6688  - Prepare, gather, organize and documents any information that may be needed for past, future, or present tasks or projects  - Analysis current issues and addresses any concerns that may follow  - Provides users with any hardware and software related issues  - Creates Spreadsheets to document all on going issues  - Facilities, coordinates and organizes information system activities such as, asset upgrades, extra peripheral issues  - Manages and facilities usage of software on all assets within NET  - Coordinates moves within the National Help Desk and IBONS with floor spreadsheets  - Data entry of all hardware and users associated with them  - Consults with Managers, other POCs, and Military personnel to determine the process of our organization  - Composes SOPs for users on different tasking  - Conducts testing to ensure all equipment works as expected  - Research new technology to decide if installing them will help the organization operator in a more sufficient manner  - Sets up new users with all IT equipment needed  - Backs up user data on external hard drives and the cloud  - Provides NMCI support with all IT related issues  - Utilizes Floor Plans to make sure users are in their proper seating and information to submit tickets  - Performs basic IT troubleshooting  - Attends meetings weekly to go over our programs issues IT wise and develop strategies that can fix or make our process more sufficient  - VTC Facilitator  - Uses Active Directory to locate and manage users. What groups they belong to,  - Manage/Maintain/Edit customer NMCI orders and profiles in NET. Keep information up to date.  - Managing/Maintaining customers S: drive space (access permissions, tracking site availability issues, content management of the site) Information Assurance (IA)/ Systems Administration Support Technician, CTSi Information Technology (IT) February 2017 to February 2018 Location: California, MD. Supervisor: Pam Long (301) 904-4524  - Support organizational transition from 1GB to 10GB Internet switch; ensure end user cable connections to Internet are correct and operational.  - Build drops and create Ethernet cables; run cabling upon request.  - Perform CTO scanning, data backups, and software installations/updates as required.  - Support construction of office cubicles and workstations.  - Install televisions, projectors, and monitors; install KVM switches when necessary.  - Provides customer service and desktop support. Uses NSERC ticket system and provides support to end users as required. Work directly with Branch Heads, Program Managers, and military personnel to fix issues through troubleshooting.  - Provide support for printers and other peripherals, which include troubleshooting problems, replacing toner, etc.  - Provide NMCI and RDTE network support; perform account management (add accounts, management passwords, etc.); manage antivirus applications; and configure IP addresses and set IP policies.  - Provide management services when PM is out.  - Evaluates current projects and addresses any concerns that may follow  - Attends daily team meetings and weekly company meetings  - Ensures that any information that is needed or given is directed to the personnel involved.  - Creates tickets/tasks daily that need to be performed by the team and assigns work when necessary  - Consults with customers, leadership, and other colleagues about any tasks that need to be taken care of by our team.  - Managed weekly metrics of NSERC (current ticketing system)  - Prepare, gather, organize and documents any information that may be needed for past, future, or present tasks or projects  - Create SOPs  - Ensures data calls get completed and directed to correct personnel  - Utilize facility floor plans to map network drop installs and workstation locations  -Assisted with network infrastructure and virtual server maintenance (ESX, juniper, VNX, Cisco hardware) Video Teleconference Technician ECS - River, MD, US December 2015 to December 2016 Supervisor: Kent Knott (301) 904-8198  - Provides technical solutions in support of the Video Technologies Team (VTT) under the Information Technology/ Cyber Security Department (IT/ CS), of NAVAIR, located in Patuxent River, MD.  - Assists with the installation of secure and non-secure video teleconferencing systems, projectors, monitors, cameras, and associated equipment.  Configure AV equipment such as Extron, AMX, CISCO, ClearOne.  Fabricate, terminate and install AV and IT cabling  - Contacted owners to gather any information or Perform routine preventative maintenance on video teleconferencing systems and updates assets records as needed  - Routinely visits supported sites and provides troubleshooting to ensure equipment operability and customer satisfaction.  - Utilizes enterprise software applications to update tasks and maintain team related collaboration resources.  - Interfaces with high-level government customers, including, senior military and executive staff.  - Assists with SOP documentation  - Utilizes SharePoint for documenting any information in regards of the equipment we used or installed on all sites, creating and managing tasks and organize information.  - Consults with customers, leadership, and other colleagues about any tasks that need to be taken care of by our team  • Use of various power tools Management/ IA Intern College of Southern Maryland (CSM) - River, MD, US May 2014 to August 2014 Supervisor: Wes Butterfield (240) 538-7842  - Worked with customers and other contractor employees to organize conferences, maintain document files, enter data in eMASS, and support proposal development. Education Diploma Leonardtown High School - Leonardtown, MD August 2013 Associate's in Cyber Security College of Southern Maryland - Leonardtown, MD Skills Maintenance, Troubleshooting, Networking, Active Directory, Microsoft Word, Forklift, MS Office Certifications/Licenses Driver's license Additional Information • Confident, hardworking, and responsible; proven ability to work well independently and as an effective team member.  • Hands-on experience with laptop and desktop computers (to include computer assembly) and tablets; knowledge of a variety of printers, smart phones, and other peripherals.  • Proficient in the use of Microsoft Office Suite: Word, PowerPoint, and Excel; familiar with Windows operating systems.  • Routinely interacts with MS SharePoint.  • Basic understanding and knowledge of 3D programming gained during course using Alice programming language.  • Familiar with Internet and World Wide Web, to include online research via various browsers and databases.