Technology Manager, Systems/Network Administrator Technology Manager, <span class="hl">Systems</span>/Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Technology Manager, Systems/Network Administrator - Kelliher Samets Volk Hinesburg, VT IT Management Computer Networking System Administration Hardware Support System Performance Operating Systems Communications Software Support Telephony Firewalls Troubleshooting Vendor Relations Personnel Management Training Critical Thinking Creative Problem Solving Time Management Decision Making Process Improvements Team Collaboration Presentations Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technology Manager, Systems/Network Administrator Kelliher Samets Volk August 2010 to Present • Manages and supports the entire infrastructure; includes the network; hardware; software; applications; WAN/LAN/WLAN topology; VLAN; ACL; Firewall; CoS; DNS; AD; and group policies; supports 50+ Linux, Windows, and Mac users.  • Main office in NYC moved; had to get the job done with less than four hours of down-time; staff in the main office remained productive, the satellite office in Burlington, VT was not affected, and the network link was restored within three hours.  • On first day of work was informed of an impending change from a PBX to an in-house Cisco VOIP system; created a plan that included training for 3 locations; completed roll-out of Cisco VOIP system; three separate offices were successfully joined.  • Recommended a change from Outlook to Gmail; arranged training and migration for all groups; company saved thousands of dollars in capital, reliability increased measurably, and Gmail became part of the company DNA within a year.  • Project manages and implements a variety of projects; including disaster recovery plans.  • Manages databases; includes users, roles, indexes, backup/restore, replications, traces, data integrity, monitoring, performance.  • Additional duties include building security, vendor relations, contract negotiations, firewalls, switches, routers, documentation. Systems/Network Administrator Macro International November 2007 to August 2010 • Installed, upgraded, and maintained 40 Windows and Linux servers for 300 users.  • Used group policies, scripting, and active directory management, to automate machine configurations, desktop environments, and software updates; increased usage by 20% within the 250-seat outbound call centers; problems disappeared.  • Developed a routing/redundancy plan making use of disparate internet circuits interconnecting 8 geographically separate offices; upgraded the entire Exchange email system for 600+ users over a single weekend day with no lost mail and no lost productivity.  • Created, managed, and implemented group policies; maintained network and other documentation.  • Heavily involved with robotic tape backup systems, Cisco VPNs and Microsoft VPNs, telephony systems and circuits; analog and VOIP phone systems.  • Wireless network configuration and security.  • Obtained Federal clearance to work with IRS data through thorough background investigations. Network Technician / Engineer / Systems Administrator Panurgy October 2005 to November 2007 • Replaced the servers that ran the small business clients the company specialized in; new servers were installed on-time, on-budget, and with only the expected downtime; followed up with training and documentation as appropriate for the business.  • Worked with a variety of hardware and software; Windows, active directory, exchange, IIS, backup exec versions 8-11, Symantec, Linux, Cisco, and Microsoft VPNs. Systems Administrator Panurgy 2007 to 2007 • Training for Microsoft Office 95-2007 (including Access), MS Project, MS System Administration classes, A + hardware classes, Network+ classes.  • Supported customer networks, filled the role of Systems Administrator, account management, patch management, security implementation, backup procedures and user permissions.  • Evaluated and determined customers' needs for new server hardware or software, and performed the installation; implemented active directory, exchange mail servers, spam filters, firewalls and all types of printers.  • Conducted classes for Office applications as well as more technical subjects, including networking, hardware and computer forensics.  • Taught high-school tech classes as a consultant even after leaving Panurgy. Trainer The SymQuest Group, Inc January 2000 to October 2005 in every discipline from learning to use a mouse, through all Microsoft Office apps (including MS Project), Microsoft Technical Courses, Linux, Forensics, and CompTIA courses.  • Taught in classrooms and at client sites; spent many months on-site at different client locations helping them integrate MS Project into their businesses; also taught one CompTIA A+ class for a local college as an adjunct professor.  • Received high marks from the entire spectrum of students; was repeatedly requested for MS Project consultations. Education MCSA University of Vermont Skills System Administrator, NOC, Cisco, Technical Support, Active Directory, Networking, Windows, Javascript, Mac, Microsoft Office, Customer Service, Windows 7, access, Vmware, security, Sales, Red Hat, Linux, System Admin, Redhat, Linux Administrator Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/tim-white-1132a318 Assessments Technical Support — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/71c5vcc-klcxjqcb Project Management Skills: Time Management — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to prioritize and allocate time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vauapoot5il3wcpc Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fvnzg32zzdmsuojl Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pssar01ynz3ltns2 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.