System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Alabaster, AL ? Detail-oriented IT professional with 18+ years experience in a system administrator role  ? Excellent analytical, investigative and troubleshooting skills  ? Experienced in supporting a smaller regional company, as well as, a large global organization  ? Skilled in supporting multiple platforms  ? Strong ability to multitask while working in a high pressure environment  ? Possess a logical mind-set with a passion for problem-solving and teamwork Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator AT&T/EDS - Hoover, AL 2002 to May 2019 • Provide second level support for 80,000+ UNIX, Linux and Windows servers.  • Monitor system availability and performance.  • Troubleshoot and repair technical issues that are reported by servers and users.  • Solely responsible for supporting all US-restricted servers during 3rd shift  • Engage hardware vendors to open tickets for failed hardware components. Collect and deliver any requested diagnostics. Work with field engineer, once onsite, to replace failed component  • Reconfigure disks logically, once physically replaced  • Perform failover functions within high availability software  • Facilitate conference bridges, engaging necessary participants, in order to resolve outage situations  • Apply patches and upgrade firmware  • Migrate and reset virtual machines in VMware  • Collaborate with teammates to create documentation for processes and procedures  • Perform root cause analysis for server caused outages  • Assume role as technical outage manager on outage calls  • Answer inbound calls from customers reporting or escalating issues  • Train and mentor new members of the team  • Assist Backup and Recovery group in resolving server connectivity issues which are preventing successful backups  • Perform BCV establishes and restorals for EMC disks Store Systems Administrator EDS - Bruno's Account - Birmingham, AL 2000 to 2002 • Provided second level support for the systems help desk, supporting servers and point-of-sale (POS) equipment located in all 180+ Bruno's stores.  • Configured and tested equipment prior to it being sent to new/remodeled stores.  • Scheduled and performed software upgrades on Innovax Aurora Software  • Supervised the installation of computer systems in new and remodeled stores  • Provided troubleshooting and problem resolution on issues associated with the POS system via phone communications, and in-store visits  • Administered repairs to the Innovax POS database (Informix)  • Performed hardware maintenance on Data General servers and Epson terminals  • Configured RTI SK-7500 Keyboard using Windows-based RTI Software  • Researched and assisted in the configuration of IBM POS  • Provided on-site support for all in-store systems during Grand Openings  • Assisted in configuration for the UNIX upgrade of store servers  • Coordinated and performed configuration changes for store format conversions Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Troy University - Troy, AL 1996 to 2000 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Linux, Linux Administrator, Redhat, Red Hat