Mid-Tier Sr. Systems Administrator Mid-Tier Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Mid-Tier Sr. Systems Administrator - GDIT Waldorf, MD Work Experience Mid-Tier Sr. Systems Administrator GDIT April 2019 to Present Technical Scope: Contract for OJP - Oracle, Unix, Linux, MYSQL DBA, MS Office Suite.  Key Achievements:  Currently in my first month I am making progress, learning the Grants environment and building rapport with key members of the various IT teams    • Administer - Support a wide variety of middleware components in a 24/7/365 high availability client environment. Primary responsibility is production support to include monitoring, troubleshooting and triage.  • Provide technical leadership across a variety of middleware components. Set technical direction for mid-tier environments  • Analyze - Collect and review system data for capacity and planning purposes. Analyze capacity data and develop capacity plans for appropriate level enterprise-wide systems. Collaborate - Work closely with team lead and peers to ensure tasks are clearly defined and deadlines are met.  • Develop - Perform software installations and upgrades across development, test and production environments. Install, configure and maintain the WebSphere family of middleware infrastructure (WebSphere Application Server, WebSphere Portal Server, WebSphere Process Server and WebSphere MQ). Install patches associated with WebSphere upgrades and updates.  • Generate / Develop and maintain appropriate system documentation. Improve - Perform complex systems administration. Monitors and tunes appropriate systems to ensure an optimum level of performance. Oversee and apply appropriate support packages/patches to maintain system integrity. Competency / ILTP Manager Integrative Science - Phoenix, AZ February 2011 to March 2019 Technical Scope: Contract for USAID - Access, MS Office Suite, ALC Matrix, HRIS, Phoenix, HR Connect.  Orchestrated technical support for Learning & Talent Management Systems creating and updating user accounts, running reports, cleaning up data, and troubleshooting computer and printer issues in the training center as well as resolving technical issues with audio, video, and other computer peripherals. Developed and designed online and classroom trainings, analyzed learner data, and created processes and procedures.  Key Achievements:  * Extended subject matter expertise during migration to new LMS/TMS as well as upper-level desk- side support resolving technical glitches on site reducing lost time and improving productivity.  * Leveraged extensive knowledge of IT software development creating and disseminating critical trainings resulting in a 42% increase in Competency Assessment participation from ALC Matrix.  * Implemented strategies to ensure operability of SCORM packages for online courses in the LMS Pilot and Production environments allowing delivery of 25% of online courses offered by USAID.  * Trained cross-functional employees on various processes and workflows increasing number of development plans by 40% - most ever in USAID history. Sr. Systems Administrator Evolver, Inc January 2008 to January 2011 Technical Scope: AIX NIM, IBM Servers (X, P series), Solarwinds, Event Tracker, Wiley, Altitris, WebSphere  Directed daily operations, analyzed workflow, established priorities, developed standards and set deadlines reviewing project plans to coordinate project activity. Met with department heads, supervisors, vendors, and others soliciting cooperation and resolving problems. Prepared and reviewed project progress reports.  Key Achievements:  * Evaluated organization's technology use and needs recommending improvements including reconfiguration of SAN and installation of WebSphere.  * Interviewed, hired, and trained up to 11 engineers coaching them on best practices on SA procedure documentation smoothing the onboarding process and increasing team efficiency.  * Executed high-level system administration racking and installing operating systems through Altiris, monitoring systems with Solarwinds, EventTracker, and Wiley, and overall project-managing Census Bureau processing centers.  * Contained costs successfully standing up server room to host 2010 Decennial Census on time. Sr Systems Administrator Techsolutions November 2004 to January 2008 Technical Scope: Oracle Databases, UNIX, SFTP script, Control-M, SSH, AIX systems, Apache  Modified existing databases testing programs, correcting errors, and making needed modifications. Reviewed project requests describing database user needs estimating time and cost required for project completion. Wrote and coded logical database descriptions specifying identifiers of database to management system.  Key Achievements:  * Analyzed systems, data, and processes including UNIX systems and web applications helping resolve critical technical issues at Department of Defense military sites.  * Scheduled jobs run through scripts with Control-M and worked with SSH configuration. Corrected issues to ensure jobs completed successfully.  * Trained SA on all desktop procedures and updated technical SA documentation streamlining training process and facilitating better communication between technical and non-technical staff. Systems Administrator 2000 to 2004 CACI) on contract for Dept. of Justice on the Tobacco Lawsuit. Skills MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, SYBASE, AIX, SOLARIS, SUN, UNIX, HTML, PYTHON, LEGATO, WEBSPHERE, CITRIX, COGNOS, CLEARQUEST, ALTIRIS, BMC, VAX, RAPTOR, RATIONAL