Sr Systems Analyst Sr <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst Sr Systems Analyst - SEVEN SEAS WATER CORP Tampa, FL • Build and Maintain Secure, High Performance, Fault Tolerant, Networks & Server Infrastructure that are relied upon to continue the delivery of water to municipalities and facilitate power production.  • Business Strategy; I leverage my deep knowledge of many IT systems to remediate business gaps and determine how new technologies can be integrated for greater business efficiencies.  • Teamwork; Effectively collaborated with IT team and all departments and employees to understand and develop solutions for new projects or to alleviating existing pain points. Work Experience Sr Systems Analyst SEVEN SEAS WATER CORP - Tampa, FL December 2012 to Present • Responsible for managing all facets of business IT systems Administration & Engineering for a fast growth international water desalination corporation with industrial automation plants and branch offices worldwide.  • Recognized IT inadequacies and inefficiencies with many IT practices and siloed Remote Operational sites. Developed a strategy for unifying disparate IT environments to achieve greater business agility, efficiency, and competitive advantage. Secure integration to core IT services enabled many sites to be operated from a central location. Lowered operational costs, Enhanced security, Troubleshooting, and Predicative Failure response reduced costly unplanned downtime & repairs providing significate savings to the business.  • Providing in-house Expertise of Enterprise and Industrial IT systems streamlined project timelines & permitted the discontinuation of many outside IT consulting services & associated fees.  • Regular meetings with businesses executives, to discuss the current state of IT and to provide them with insight and offer available solutions, prioritization, and action where needed; proactive vs reactive IT strategy.  • Subject Matter Expert for Operations and Engineering Team to Design, Build, Operate, and Maintain highly available Industrial Automation infrastructure that is critical to business operations during green & gray field Industrial automation projects using industry standards (ISA99, CPwE). Systems Administrator BAY BUSINESS EDGE - Tampa, FL January 2012 to November 2012 • Worked aside Sr Systems Engineer to deploy, upgrade, and maintain of Small to medium Office Networks, Servers and Workstations, Exchange, Active Directory, Remote Access, VMware, backups, and documentation.  • Worked onsite with clients, continuously demonstrating strong customer rapport and satisfaction.  • Responsible for customer technology life-cycle recommendations and upgrades.  • Responsible to see all technical issues to resolution engaging the necessary required resources. Systems Administrator INFINITY TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS - Tampa, FL May 2010 to October 2011 • Worked with System's engineer to deploy VMware & Hyper-V clusters, Exchange Migrations, Disaster Recovery systems.  • Level 2 support for Managed IT Services firm that allowed unfettered access to many technologies that provided rapid development of technical, and soft skills.  • Deployed, monitored, and responded to many IT alerting systems including, email spam filters, firewalls, anti-virus, backups, vulnerability scanners.  • Performed in-depth forensics on workstation hard drives. Support Engineer STREAM INTERNATIONAL - Tampa, FL July 2008 to May 2010 • Worked as Dell Technical Pro Support Engineer for Server and Workstations.  • Responsible for troubleshooting hardware and software issues to resolution.  • Tasks include but limited to server and computer deployment, RAID configuration, OS installation and monitoring, OS Troubleshooting and lite application Support.  • Demonstrated ability to support increasingly complex customers by being promoted from Consumer PC Support to Commercial Business Support, Federal Government Support, and Server Support. Education Information Security WESTERN GOVERNORS UNIVERSITY - Salt Lake City, UT July 2010 to December 2012 Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching Present CCNA Industrial Present