Student Student IT Professional seeking challenging career in dynamic fast paced environment San Antonio, TX Professional who seeks a challenging career, where your company can use my eighteen years of hands-on operational experience with networks, systems, and infrastructure where upward mobility is based on demonstrated performance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Student Villanova University - Work at Home April 2016 to September 2017 •Project management professionals oversee projects from the planning stage through implementation, testing and reporting. They typically choose and manage the project team members. They are ultimately responsible for the project’s success or failure based on objectives set by project stakeholders.     Earned Master Certificate in Applied Project Management by completing four classes; Essentials of Project Management, Project Management Professional Exam Preparation, Essentials of Business Process Management, and Project Management Capstone. Student Villanova University - Work at Home September 2015 to March 2016 •Six Sigma Lean Black Belt Certificate    Six Sigma is a process improvement methodology created in the early 1980’s by Motorola in order to reduce errors, waste, and variation in a process while increasing efficiency and quality in regards to the scope of the process. Six Sigma has been instituted in various businesses worldwide to include Toyota, GE, and Ford.    Earned Master Certificate in Lean Six Sigma Black Belt by completed all three classes with a 3.4 GPA; Six Sigma Green Belt, Lean Six Sigma, and Lean Six Sigma Black Belt. Sr. Systems Analyst Banner University Medical Center - Tucson, AZ June 2011 to September 2015 Responsible for providing system support, security, and troubleshooting six patient account systems, including but not limited to: GE/IDX, Epic, and Emdeon Billing Systems. Preparing, testing, and validating insurance claim forms based on 5010 standards. Provided detailed reports using affiliate and DBMS systems to senior hospital officials.     Lead analyst for a five member operational team. Ensured help desk resolution for enterprise issues, project management, and custom ad-hoc reports for intra/inter-organizational operations. Goal-oriented, results driven, and accurate analyst with a consistent record of thriving in a high demand environment.     Experienced analyst performed configuration, reporting, troubleshooting, and management of IDX DBMS, data warehouse, and patient account systems. Worked with fellow Senior Analyst to manage ad-hoc reporting for senior staff and requesting departments. Ensured security, configurations, and interval requirements were consistently completed without error and ahead of schedule.    Dedicated 30 plus hours over a two week period to a report that contained the detailed information needed by senior staff in order to ensure the awarding and accreditation of state run ACCCHS programs that provided over 1 million dollars in increased revenue over 5 years. Systems Administrator US Air Force - Tucson, AZ August 2005 to April 2011 Responsible for coordinating multiple organization, multi-national, multi-platform wide area network architectures. Responsible for establishing and maintaining WAN/LAN/RF network links while facilitating changes to network specific documents and network architectures under the direction of a senior network engineer.    Shift leader and supervisor of twelve-member operational team. Ensured team coherence, conflict mitigation, and project management for inter-organizational operations. Goal-oriented, results driven, and decisive leader with a proven record of thriving in a fast-paced environment.     Experienced team lead and trainer performing installation, configuration, and troubleshooting of software and hardware on Windows (2000,XP, Vista, 7) and Linux (Solaris, Sun Microsystems) workstations and servers. Maintained integrated systems performance while conducting maintenance and backups as directed by the senior network engineer.    Mitigated a network outage while performing as a systems administrator in support of remote operations in South America that would have hindered both communications and the access to sensitive information critical to precise analysis and decision making. Created alternative data communication networks architecture to re-route sensitive and classified information. Directed team members in efforts to successfully re-establish 89 percent of network resources within one hour. Education Bachelor's in Technical Management DeVry Institute of Technology Certification in Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Villanova University Certification in Project Management Professional Villanova University Skills Process Improvement, Network Management, Network Administration, System Administration, Analysis, IDX, Windows 7, windows 8, Windows 10, Office 365 Administration, Share Point, FreePBX, Windows Server 2008, Exchange Server 2010, Active Directory, FTP, SQL, Mac OS X, Debian Linux Administration, Microsoft Office Suite, DBMS, Project Management, Change Management, Tomcat, NAS (4 years), Windows Server (8 years), Systems Integration, Systems Analysis, Integration Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/stevenmcgraw Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: Staff Sergeant June 1998 to April 2011 Certifications/Licenses Epic Resolute Hospital Billing Administration April 2017 CompTIA A+ May 2018 to May 2021 Code: CNEWM7XPNL14QBCG  Verify at: http://verify.CompTIA.org CompTIA Security+ November 2018 to November 2021 Code: 8YKCV6QMYKVQQR55  Verify at: http://verify.CompTIA.org