Windows System Administrator Windows <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Windows System Administrator - Monsanto Company Saint Peters, MO Innovative and energetic business and IT professional with the necessary background, skills and technical experience to actively and effectively manage a wide range of technical products and services. Proficient in customer service, business development and strategic thinking.  Superior leadership talents relating to team initiatives, staff supervision and project management. Exceptional problem solving, troubleshooting and technical support expertise. Interpersonal skills in communicating, negotiating, relationship building and conflict resolution. Work Experience Windows System Administrator Monsanto Company - Creve Coeur, MO 2010 to Present • Provide exceptional technical support, troubleshooting, question answering and needs assessment to technical clients - covering a wide range of applications, systems and hardware.  • Ensure that more than 3,000 servers on a variety of platforms were maintained in good working order, with minimal downtime.  • Support servers globally, and participated in the Unified Infrastructure Model to provide technical support to remote sites.  • Perform preventative maintenance and tested monthly security updates deployed by Microsoft - ensuring the production, development, and test environment was properly maintained.  • Coordinate Akibia and Dell support technicians - scheduling and arranging proper visit and repair times.  • Successfully initiated and completed the Men and Mice project to better administer DNS/Static IP entries.  • Restructured group security/policies for more effective and manageable administration.  • Worked with Akibia, Microsoft, and Dell's technical account managers to improve the quality of services provided and communicate the priority/severity of current issues.  • Developed and oversaw multiple Microsoft SharePoint sites - serving as the Website Administrator for the UNIX and Windows team site.  • Skillfully monitored server performance using Microsoft Performance Monitor, Task Manager and Process Explorer - creating solutions for better application performance based on in-depth analysis. Windows Systems Administrator - Co-Op Monsanto Company 2010 to 2011 Completed a wide range of systems administration tasks - including account creation / management in Active Directory, VMware cloning / migration, publishing applications through Citrix, IP address assigning, and records management in DNS Native Tool.  • Developed DHCP scopes, reservations and pre-defined options for remote sites. Fundraiser Annual Giving Program - St. Louis, MO 2009 to 2010 cold calling, contact initiation, negotiating and sales closing skills to collect donations for the university's program.  • Coordinated and organized special events to increase donations. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Saint Louis University - John Cook School of Business - St. Louis, MO May 2011 Associate of Arts in General Transfer Studies Saint Louis Community College - St. Louis, MO May 2008 Skills Techincal Skills: SOFTWARE: Microsoft Administrative Tools (DNS, DHCP, Active Directory Suite, Group Policy, Terminal Services); Microsoft Operations Monitor; Microsoft Office Suite 2007; Antivirus (Trend Micro, Symantec); System Center Operations Manager; What's Up Gold; Citrix; SharePoint; VMware :: OPERATING SYSTEMS: Server - 2000, 2003, 2008; Workstations - Windows XP, Vista, 7 :: HARDWARE: Servers - Memory, HDDs, Mainboards, memory, power supplies, processors, printers, handhelds, scanners, etc. HP, Dell, IBM; maintenance and monitoring :: PROGRAMMING: WMI, DS commands, Powershell; OS troubleshooting Additional Information Core Competencies:  • Analytical Thinking  • Project Management  • Customer Service  • Business Administration  • Strategic Planning  • Technical Problem Solving  • IT Product Knowledge  • Technical Troubleshooting