Linux Systems Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator Hartford, WI Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator At&t March 2005 to March 2019 * Key role focus was Linux OS and ESXi Hosted VMware. Responsible for installing, configuring, and maintaining operating system workstations and servers, including web and database servers, in support of business and Government contracts. Maintained Security Clearances as needed. Hardware and software installations in a 24/7 production support role. Experienced in RHEl5, RHEL6, RHEL7, Solaris 10, VMware ESXi 5, 6, 6.5. Ubuntu Linux and Windows Domain Operating Systems.  * Performed software installations and upgrades to operating systems and layered software packages. Monitored and tuned the Operating system to achieve optimum performance levels. Installed and monitored security auditing software and remediated defects based on ASPR policies. Ensured workstation/server data integrity by evaluating, implementing, and managing appropriate software and hardware solutions. Maintained and configured Satellite systems with Linux repositories and registered servers to utilize those systems.  * Provided technical project management oversight during installations and recovery projects. Conducted routine hardware and software audits of servers to ensure compliance with established standards, policies, and configuration guidelines. Developed and maintained a comprehensive operating system hardware and software configuration database/library of all supporting documentation.  * Worked arm and arm with vendors and Field Engineers to facilitate repairs under warranty or under support contracts. Maintained Offsite backup storage Contracts and audits of Iron Mountain.  * Comprehensive knowledge of Microsoft Office suite/365 and LAN administration tools, including HP Network Node manager and supporting configuration tasks to monitor networks.    Systems Support, Infrastructure Management Systems Engineer II AT&T - Waukesha, WI August 1998 to March 2019 • Long Distance Application and Infrastructure support, Concentrating on Data Center Equipment installation, Network cabling, Managing large Backup Silos, Upgrading and Diagnosing Hardware issues, managing and configuring Fiber switches and UPS systems.  • Managed and Upgraded Windows Workstations and Printers in an Office Environment. Education A.A.S in Management Gateway Technical College - Kenosha, WI 1992 to 1995 Engineering technology University of Wisconsin - Kenosha, WI 1989 to 1991 Skills Linux, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware Military Service Branch: Army National Guard US Service Country: United States Rank: Staff Sergeant June 1975 to July 1988 6 years as Military Police, then 8 years as Tactical Communications Chief Commendations: Achievement metal, accommodation metal,