Exchange Administrator Exchange <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Integrator / Systems Engineer Herndon, VA Pursuing a System Engineering/Administration position where I can utilize my technical skills and further increase my knowledge in the IT industry. Areas of expertise include:    System Design and implementation AD Design and implementation   PowerShell and batch scripting System Security and maintenance   AD support and maintenance Backup and Disaster Recovery  System Diagnostics and Repair Network Diagnostics and Repair Work Experience Exchange Administrator Digital Intelligence Systems - McLean, VA December 2014 to Present Work for the United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General where I perform the following duties:  • Administer the Exchange Online environment.  • Administer Active Directory (Group Policy Objects, OU's, Users, Groups, Computers).  • Administer GroupId. A third-party utility used for Active Directory Group automation.  • Administer the Backup System (NetBackup).  • Administer Varonis. A third-party utility used for data monitoring and protection.  • Administer Itrezzo. A third-party utility used for enterprise contact management.  • Provide Tier III support for Service Desk.  • Administered the On-Prem Exchange server architecture before assisting with the migration from On- Prem to Exchange Online.  • Created several AD and Exchange PowerShell scripts to replace manual processes.  • Assisted with migrating Peace Corps OIG customers onto our USPS OIG network.  • Assisted with the migration of our backup system from DPM to NetBackup. Senior Systems Integrator Stanley Associates - Fairfax, VA May 2004 to December 2014 Worked for the Joint Strike Fighter Program Office where I perform the following duties:  • Designed, tested, and implemented Active Directory domains in a secured environment.  • Designed, tested, and implemented the Exchange 2007 messaging system. As part of this project I also developed the migration strategy from the legacy Exchange 2003 system.  • Designed, tested, and implemented a baseline workstation image running Windows XP and Office 2003 using Windows Deployment Services and PXE boot.  • Designed, tested, and implemented the full hard drive encryption solution for the JSFPO workstations.  • Designed, tested, and implemented the PKI infrastructure for the JSFPO secure Network.  • Created and managed Group Policy Objects, OU's, Users, Groups, Computers, and permissions in Active Directory.  • Installed and configured Windows Server Update Services in a secured environment.  • Assisted with the Design, testing and implementation of upgrading workstations from Windows XP to Windows 7.  • Assisted with the preparation and upgrade of the existing Active Directory network from Windows 2003 to Windows 2008.  • Assisted with the deployment of the Virtual infrastructure utilizing VMware, NetApp SAN's, and HP Blade technology.  • Assisted with building and maintaining DISA compliant servers utilizing DISA STIGs, STIG Viewer Tool, SCAP Tool, Windows Gold Disk, Retina Scanner and IAVA patches.  • Created several automated scripts to eliminate repetitive tasks that had previously been done manually.  • Administer and maintained the Web Filtering proxy system (Websense) for the JSFPO.  • Assisted with the management of the McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator security management system for the JSFPO.  • Provide Tier III support for the JSFPO customers and IT support staff. Systems Engineer Raytheon ITSS - Lanham, MD April 1997 to May 2004 Worked for the Secretary of the Air Force where I performed the following duties:  • Primary Exchange administrator supporting over three sites with roughly 10000 customers.  • Engineered several exchange site migrations in which a team of engineers migrated servers from other exchange sites into our existing exchange site.  • Worked with a team of individuals to prepare and upgrade our existing network from Windows NT to Windows 2000, Active Directory, and Exchange 2000.  • Administered, monitored and troubleshot the blackberry servers, exchange servers, and SQL servers.  • Installed and maintained a Windows NT Server network environment consisting of domains for both unclassified and classified systems.  • Installed and maintained an Outlook Web Access server that allowed customers to access their e-mail from any off site locations with a network connection and a standard web browser that supported 128-bit encryption.  • Assisted the maintenance of IP addresses for three separate subnets within the building.  • Lead engineer for the migration of Microsoft Mail to the Exchange 5.5 mail system.  • Performed many daily tasks that included assisting the helpdesk with troubleshooting client issues, monitoring systems, creation and maintenance of accounts/permissions, and any other problems that might have occurred.  • Worked closely with the Help Desk to solve any hardware, software, or network problems that might have occurred.    Skills:  Networking / Protocols:  Local Area Network (LAN), Wide Area Network (WAN), TCP/IP, Wireless Network (802.11b - 802.11n), TCP/IP, DNS, SNMP, DHCP, FTP, DNS, SMTP, POP, IMAP, TLS, HTTP, HTTPS, SSH, SSL, IPSEC, and Telnet.    Operating Systems:  Windows Server 2016, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2008, Windows 10, Windows 7, Windows XP, and many other legacy Windows Operating Systems.    Hardware:  HP ProLiant servers (DL and BL series), HP c7000 Blade Enclosure, Dell PowerEdge servers, NetApp Filers, Hard disk architectures (RAID, SAS, SATA, SCSI, and IDE), Intel & AMD based PCs (desktop & laptop), Blackberry and Smart Phones, Scanners, Printers, Modems, Tape Drives, and many other Peripheral devices.    Virtualization:  VMware ESX, VMware ESXi, and VMware vSphere Client.    Application Software: Education A.A.S. in Information Systems Technical Support Specialization Northern Virginia Community College A.A.S. in Information Systems Technology Networking Specialization Northern Virginia Community College Skills Dns, Encryption, Exchange, Iis, Networking, Tcp/ip, Virtualization, Application software, Scsi, Visio, Dhcp, Tcp, Telnet, Vmware, Wireless network, Ghost, Netbackup, Ssl, Veritas, Netapp, Powershell, Migration, Messaging, Office 365 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) Additional Information My current position requires a Public Trust clearance, and I previously held a Top Secret/SAP clearance at my prior position.