IT Specialist IT Specialist Systems Administrator Export, PA Work Experience IT Specialist Dedicated Nursing Associates - Delmont, PA March 2019 to May 2019 Joined the 12th largest medical staffing firm in the country to assist in day-to-day management of operations and development/maintenance of infrastructure. Assisting in policy writing, documentation creation, and internal systems audits. Perform escalated end-user support in a friendly, customer-focused manner.  Key Achievements:  * Worked to establish helpdesk protocols and managed enforcement  * Involved in the day-to-day management of O365/Azure AD infrastructure  * Fast-paced ramp up to several new systems, including Peplink hardware, InVid camera manager, and ESET anti-virus portal. Ramp ups included suggestions for on-going management and best practices  * Pulled in on homebuilt CRM migration within first 2 weeks of employment  * Directed physical-to-virtual migration of internal website and file repositories  * Assisted with implementing a change management solution and knowledge base.  * Created resources with Microsoft PowerTools and Flow Systems Administrator Phoenix Rehabilitation & Health Services - Blairsville, PA April 2016 to January 2019 Recruited to assist this leading Health Care / Physical Therapy firm in maintaining WAN / LAN network functions for 65+ clinics operating in five states. Lead team in supporting all in-house staff members, troubleshooting root cause issues, and proposing technical solutions to enhance system performance. Managed hardware depot, allocating resources to support firm's dynamic growth. Assisted in creating budgets and conducting all internal audits. Documented infrastructures and performed risk assessments. Processed and verified organization-wide new hires. Remotely managed hardware/servers/VMs using RDP/SolarWinds. Assisted MSP with patch/AV management via SolarWinds.  Key Achievements:  * Ensure 100% uptime of in-house EMR system  * Managed and carried out physical-to-virtual migration of in-house EMR  * Administer resources, users, access, logs, and backups of in-house EMR  * Directed Exchange Online migration with other employees and MSP resources  * Deployed Office 365 apps to internal users  * Coordinated, planned, and performed all new facility set-ups, relocation projects, and office closures.  * Drove process to improve IT infrastructures and cable backbone at new and existing clinics.  * Instrumental in completing banking audits and create new policies to maintain CMDB / KB solutions. IT Administrator Cygnus Manufacturing Company - Saxonburg, PA July 2015 to July 2017 Assumed responsibility for rebuilding this failing and mismanaged IT / IS department; re-aligning all technology and IS functions with industry best practices that achieved company objectives. Established and maintained relations with MPS to understand user needs, define project scope, and support ERP system. Maintained office / manufacturing floor PC hardware and operating software. Conducted new hire orientations.  Key Achievements:  * Maintained, administered, and audited Made2Manage ERP system, maintaining 100% uptime  * Developed, manipulated, and delivered regular Crystal Reports from main ERP system  * Researched and recommended hardware / peripheral / software upgrades to improve IT operations.  * Drove process to implement new helpdesk software to improve ticket / incident management process  * Began roll-out of remote asset management during helpdesk ramp-up for inventorying, patch management, software deployments  * Coordinated roll out of MS Office 365 and reconciled all software licensing issues. Systems Administrator Amphenol Advanced Sensors - Saint Marys, PA July 2014 to April 2015 Facilitated development and deployment of complex projects; coordinated with team members, leadership, and key stakeholders to accomplish goals. Skillfully identified and resolved issues; provided reliable and frequent communication across departments. Administered help desk tickets to proper resources; prepared and implemented policies for SSAE 16 COSO SOX audits.  Key Achievements:  * Assisted in establishing new infrastructure with "0" interruptions on production and workflow.  * Assisted with Oracle CRM migration and initial set-up  * Assisted in Exchange Online migration w/ manual .pst imports  * Involved in planning and initial deployment of global SCCM environment; included pole locations, conforming with pre-GDPR European data laws  * Traveled to Europe and Puerto Rico within first 5 weeks of employment to perform network migration.  * Administered VoIP system; configured Cisco / HP networking equipment; configured mobile platforms. Field Support Technician III DuBois Logistics - DuBois, PA March 2010 to March 2014 Provided comprehensive technical support to improve the functionality, reliability, and performance of all systems, networks, PCs, mobile devices, and equipment for 24-hour, 365-day warehouse facility. Led and coordinated projects on-site and at remote locations nationwide. Resolved escalated issues. Performed administrative tasks for Warehouse Technology department. Managed IT assets.  Key Achievements:  * Proactively analyzed business needs and implemented technology solutions maximized operations.  * Dispatched to remote warehouses to support server / UPS installation and network hardware cleanup.  * Provided 24/7 support for transportation conversion project; ensured seamless cutover to new system.  * Assisted in implementing new payroll and warehouse management systems. Junior Systems Administrator Plan4Demand Solutions, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA 2005 to 2008 Planned and implemented Windows-based infrastructure, system, and network solutions; provided end-user support to 30-50 employees and 75+ remote consultants. Managed and maintained systems and equipment, including warehouse management (WMS) software. Controlled company IT assets. Trained and mentored users. Served as trusted liaison to CEO. Tested and implemented new technologies.  Key Achievements:  * Contributed to large-scale IT upgrade, conversion, and implementation projects, including deploying WebEx throughout the enterprise, and coordinating the companywide conversion to Siebel CRM. Education Associate of Science in Computer Networking Systems in Computer Networking Systems Pittsburgh Technical Institute - Oakdale, PA Skills Erp, Network administration, Emr, Help desk, Fleet management, Training, Information Technology, Comptia, It Specialist, Cisco, Desktop Support Additional Information Areas of expertise:  • ERP/EMR Administration  • Network Administration  • Hardware Fleet Management    • User Support & Training  • Project Management  • Client Communications    • Field Service Coordination Troubleshooting & Resolution  • Help Desk Administration