System Administrator (Consultant) <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Consultant) System Administrator (Consultant) - Charles Schwab Gainesville, TX Career Highlights:  • Migrated entire 1800 server Solaris/Irix/Linux data center to another site successfully with only 1 week outage.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Excel Communications' billing system consisting of 4 HP 9000 V-Class machines using a 6 TB EMC Symmetrix SAN.  • Effected annual savings of $30K in personnel overtime expenditure and $15K in software costs by developing an operations scheduling system for Telephone Employees Credit Union.  • Performed the sole design, programming, installation, configuration, documentation, and maintenance of a 38-screen web-based helpdesk utilizing Perl CGI scripts running against an Oracle database.  • Created script to dump result of MySQL queries into Excel spreadsheet (tables and/or plots), encrypt it and mail it to one or more users.  • Database Administration for Sybase, Oracle and MySQL. Work Experience System Administrator (Consultant) Charles Schwab October 2018 to Present • Manage Configuration Management System for over 70,000 host machines.  • Administer Tripwire for production systems. Senior Analyst Snail Games USA May 2018 to August 2018 Coding MAME game server using Go and QML. Code hosted out of github. Started integration of multi-service video streaming engine into code. Linux System Administrator JWT/Mirum August 2011 to February 2018 • RHEL System Administration and MySQL Database Administration for marines.com, visitusvi.com, whatispc-11.com  • Code pushes to QA, staging and production via svn and git.  • Set up fault tolerant sFTP cluster using glusterfs.  • Created Perl script to issue one or more queries to a database, tabulate data (and plot if desired) into Excel spreadsheet, encrypt the spreadsheet, and email it to one or more people (and email password separately).  • Created monitor software to monitor performance of groups of machines.  • Set up script to monitor apache logs, and create spreadsheets to examine error trends, as well as suspicious activity (traffic by IP and netblock).  • Set up script to make it easier to see similarities/differences in software levels between hosts.  • Set up AIDE to monitor changes to system files. Systems Administrator (Consultant) Verizon Wireless May 2011 to August 2011 • Linux System Administration for Verizon Wireless' IBM Bladecenters  • Change control and implementation  • Hardware Maintenance and scripting as needed Systems Administrator (Consultant) Sabre Holdings July 2009 to May 2011 • Linux/Solaris systems administration for 1800+ servers and Virtual Machines.  • Deploy VMs from VMware ESX cluster and create templates for same.  • Moved entire data center from Southlake campus to Lewisville collocation facility in less than 1 week.  • OS level troubleshooting for Linux, Solaris, Windows, HP-UX, AIX and Irix Operating Systems.  • Extensive use of HP Onboard Administrator and ILO.  • Installed, configured and administered new datacenter for lastminute.com consisting of over 400 HP blade servers. Systems Administrator Avaya April 2006 to March 2009 • Unix System Administration on 50-80 Solaris servers, 6 HP-UX servers, 4 AIX servers and 12-20 Linux servers.  • Patching, package management, performance management, kernel parameter management.  • Administered Netbackup, administered SAN via Santricity.  • Migrated data center from Carrollton to Coppell while doing system refresh.  • Deployed and customized Linux VMs using VMware. Systems Administrator Travelocity September 2004 to March 2006 • Built, installed and configured Apache on 20 Solaris based Web application servers.  • Performed Web application software upgrades.  • Troubleshot JBoss application server on 18 Web application servers.  • Configured and administered both Netscaler and F5 Big-IP Load Balancers in multiple environments.  • Wrote Perl script to convert Cisco Local Director configuration to F5.  • Performed system administration for Linux, HP-UX, Solaris and IRIX systems.  • Performed systems installation and configuration. Senior Systems Administrator Consolidated Container Company LLC June 2000 to September 2003 • Spearheaded all OS support activities for 4 Sun SPARCs and 8 HP 9000's running Oracle Manufacturing.  • Performed JDK upgrade for Oracle. Conducted OS patches and kernel parameter tuning, performance monitoring, and Bourne/Korn shell scripting.  • Saved purchase cost of a new system by creating a 38-screen web-based helpdesk using Apache, Perl FastCGI and Oracle DBI.  • Reduced downtime from 1% to between 0.5%-0.2% by installing and configuring ServiceGuard. Systems Administrator Excel Communications January 1999 to June 2000 • Installed, configured and maintained billing system consisting of 4 HP 9000 V-Class machines using a 6 TB EMC Symmetrix SAN.  • Performed patch, kernel, user and file systems maintenance and managed disc volume utilizing LVM.  • Improved database problem response time and decreased database downtime by writing a system performance monitor for Sybase servers with text paging using Perl.  • Saved five man-hours per patch installation with the automation of an Arbor patch installation on Oracle systems. Systems Administrator (Consultant) HP June 1998 to December 1998 • Installed a Private network of two HP 9000 K460s and one consisting of an HP3000 917, HP3000 939KS, HP9000 K570 and an HP 9000 T600 carrying out all administration, software, and patch installations.  • Initiated a uniform Y2K testing regimen for all Unix and MPE systems. Systems Administrator Target Air Freight 1997 to June 1998 • Supervised a nationwide frame relay network serving 200 users and maintained hardware and networks.  • Operated at such a high level of performance that upon ending employment, this company hired three replacements to adequately fulfill vacant job functions. Systems Administrator Kaiser Marquardt 1995 to 1997 • Charged with operating system support for HP 3000 Series 947 and a network of eight HP 9000 Series 700s.  • Installed and administered Oracle 7 for Windows 95, integrated Hummingbird Exceed, and automated operations and system scheduling.  • Retained $15K in budgeting software spending and over $30K in annual overtime costs by installing and configuring scheduling software.  • Achieved $1K in monthly savings moving a microfiche and paper report system to a CD database. Systems Administrator BHP Coated Steel Corp 1994 to 1995 • Managed a SCO UNIX system serving nine users running corporate accounting software.  • Installed Windows NT to support the payroll system.  • Troubleshot all peripherals on the VMS network running manufacturing system.  • Implemented effective disc space management for a SCO server and saved $1,000 in upgrade costs. Education High school or equivalent Skills Aix, Apache, Bourne shell, Linux, Red hat, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Redhat, Linux Administrator