Senior Financial Systems Administrator Senior Financial <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator and DBA Woodbridge, VA I am a dedicated System’s Administrator with over 20 years of experience administering, troubleshooting and managing network applications and services. I have a very heavy emphasis as a Principal Systems Specialist; which is someone who can become an expert at programs very quickly. I have worked usually to support Financial Applications or Finance Departments in software applications such as Deltek Costpoint, Deltek Time & Expense and IBM Cognos allowing me a unique experience of knowing finance very well. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Financial Systems Administrator ICF Consulting, Inc. - Fairfax, VA October 2018 to July 2019 ·        Performed comprehensive Costpoint, Time & Expense and IBM Cognos applications administration for 6,000+ employees and contractors.  ·        Provided technical guidance on all system architecture and made recommendations as needed.  ·        Installed O/S and Deltek patches as necessary and through an approved Approval Review Board.  ·        Queried back-end databases for data analysis, extraction or other required activities.  ·        Tuned and Enhanced Finance system servers and ensured the highest level of uptime.  ·        Advised data conversion teams on best practices, data analytics and data cleansing techniques to ensure migrations of several subsidiary companies systems were appropriately being integrated into ICF’s “Gold” Costpoint.  ·        Requested servers, as necessary, for builds or integrations into financial systems.  ·        Built and maintained system interfaces for connectivity to outside applications or integrations.  ·        Worked with Deltek creating cases and managing support tickets for optimum resolution.  Maintained, documented and verified extensibilities designed for data extractions for integrations or other data exchange purposes. Systems Consultant Cydecor & Millenium Group & other various - Crystal City, VA February 2006 to October 2018 ? Install, configure, deploy and plan software setup and upgrades of Deltek suite of products.  ? Assist with Deltek Costpoint, Time and Expense and Cognos Software which may include creating documentation, writing reports, configuring systems, providing training and installing software.  ? Assist with integration and data analysis of migrated systems to ensure data accuracy.  ? Use Costpoint Best Practices to review and recommend upgrade paths, expansions or upgrades utilizing Business Rules Analysis, Project Planning, Technical Needs, Testing and Go-Live plans.  ? Install, architect and configure SQL databases for custom applications, upgrades or patching.  ? Create documentation or training materials, classes, PowerPoint presentations as needed for training and supplements.  ? Design, configure and implement security for Deltek Costpoint or TESS through Active Directory.  Implement security for portals, reports or general access for Cognos. Sr. Systems Administrator and DBA ASM Research (an Accenture Federal Services Company) - Fairfax, VA March 2015 to March 2017 ? Architected ASMs Exchange 2013 environment, design, storage, backup and recovery and all archive data storage and server design consisting of physical servers and virtual remote servers that served as part of the DR backup and recovery model.  ? Migrated over 15,000 user and resource mailboxes from Exchange 2007 to 2013 minimizing downtime to the minimum amount feasibly possible.  ? Served as Corporate SQL DBA and reviewed and approved all scripts ran against the server for all databases. The Corporate SQL servers hosted over 500 active databases across 15 servers including several high-availability (HA) clustered servers.  ? Responsible for setup and maintenance of Corporate SQL Database servers HA and Disaster Recovery (DR) setup, configuration and design. This included testing, documentation and DR scenarios.  ? Maintained all Corporate SQL Database backups and was responsible for testing database restorations. Responsible for DR processes, technologies, written plans and documentation for DR scenarios.  ? Initiated, created, reviewed, approved and executed all scripts to database back-end for all Financial Application Server Databases.  ? Acted as Administrator for all Financial Applications including Deltek Costpoint, Time and Expense and Cognos.  ? Installed operating system hotfixes to Financial Application servers and ensured maximum uptime.  ? Administered the Cognos environment, maintained user accounts and designed, created reports, packages, data models as necessary based on requests.  ? Responsible for creating and maintaining several administrative Active Directory scripts, mostly PowerShell, to manage dormant user accounts, expired user accounts, acting upon terminated user accounts to remove many attributes and initiating emails to managers about upcoming accounts pending termination and deletion for administrative purposes and action. Sr. Systems Administrator and DBA Alltech Int'l - Crystal City, VA July 2013 to February 2015 ? Acted as DBA for essential DoD application requiring 99.9% uptime and serviced 20,000+ users across 18 agencies.  ? Proactively monitored the SQL Server 2005/2008 database systems to ensure secure services with minimum downtime.  ? Maintained and managed customer applications and databases. Provided system maintenance and daily operations reports, back-ups, restore services, patch management, failovers and other DBA services.   ? Proactively monitored systems performance attributes to include but not limited to server uptime, resource consumption and data connectivity and communicate and report issues.  ? Performed analyses, documented and provided reports of major problems and unplanned service outages after action reports (AARs).   ? Provided technical input for briefings, documents, reviews and discussions on current and proposed servers and network infrastructures using best practices for IT Enterprise Service Operations and the ITIL practices.  ? Performed routine maintenance and support for servers, applications, databases and peripherals including deploying patches, GPO’s, managing standard servers and virtual machines and upgrading software such as Java, Tomcat, and ActiveMQ to the next approved version or release.   ? Responsible for planning, managing and deploying infrastructure changes into the production environment successfully while minimizing interruptions to customers and current IT services.  ? Acted as Information Assurance Engineer maintaining IAVAs, POAMs, DRAs within VMS.  ? Managed servers, applications and clusters using AutoStart and Dameware.  ? Utilized Remedy for reporting incidents and Work Orders. Principal Systems Specialist/Senior Systems Administrator VSE Corporation - Alexandria, VA February 2007 to July 2013 ? Acted as Assistant to Senior Network Architect.  ? Acted as Cognos Systems Administrator maintaining Cognos environment, creating data transformations for use to Cognos Developers, and validating and publishing reports to production environments.  ? Worked tightly with Oracle DBA and Deltek suite of products including Costpoint, Time and Expense and Costpoint Analytics Dashboards.  ? Served as the only Administrator of ADP for the IT Services Department. This required working heavily with the Payroll department on integration with ADP.  ? VSE had a third-party solution for Purchase Management which was fully integrated with Costpoint 7 using Web Services. This included exchange Purchase Requisition and Purchase Order data between these systems.  ? Assisted with DCAA and SOX audits when necessary. Recommend process and system design enhancements to simplify system use for end users and managers.  ? Administered Active Directory by creating reports, writing scripts to query or update data.  ? Administered Exchange 2010 mail exchange servers and managed mailboxes and mailbox databases.  ? Tested and planned deployment of Microsoft Updates using WSUS server to over 350 servers and 2500 workstations. Plan server shutdowns or outage for maximum availability.  ? VMWare Administrator of more than 350 virtual machines on nearly 50 hosts.  ? Assisted and performed network traces and NetFlow reports in order to determine applications, backups or network issues affecting over 25 remote sites connected by MPLS or VPN tunnel. Facility Technician and Database Administrator National Credit Union Administration - Alexandria, VA February 2000 to February 2007 ? Created, maintained and continually designed an Access database with several modules that controlled all assignments coming into and out of the office, printing center and distribution center.  ? Maintained our ListServ system and Electronic Mail using MS Exchange by serving as primary point of contact for the Electronic Express Subscription Service.  ? Maintained the ListServ database and front-end databases.  ? Managed documents on the FTP server and maintained links to documents as a Webmaster for the ListServ system.  ? Maintained subscription lists and conducted periodic reviews of subscribers’ e mail addresses through the use of SQL. Gathered detailed reports from SQL in regards to subscribers.   ? Created and maintained all Exchange Organization Outlook forms, including VB coding.  ? Oversaw the operation of the central office security system, digital CCTVs and access control system (employee security badges, security codes, keys and cipher locks); over 50 electronic code key doors, over 25 ciphered doors and maintained all keys for the seven story office building which encompassed more than 400 individually keyed locks – maintained mostly in a secured Access Database. Education Associate in Transportation & Communications Potomac Job Corps Center - Washin November 1997 to December 1998 Biology Marshall University - Huntington, WV September 1996 to August 1997 Diploma in Science Tolsia High School - Fort Gay, WV September 1992 to May 1996 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Vmware (10+ years), LYNC (5 years), System Administrator (10+ years), Exchange Server (10+ years), System Admin (10+ years), Powershell (5 years), SCCM (3 years), Deltek (10+ years)