Sr. Systems Manager Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> Manager Sr. Systems Manager - Uniformed Benefits Services Association Overland Park, KS Work Experience Sr. Systems Manager Uniformed Benefits Services Association - Overland Park, KS February 2019 to Present In February of 2019 I accepted the role of Sr. Systems Manager for USBA. In this role I am responsible for designing, maintaining, and upgrading all of the IT infrastructure. This entails, networking, security, servers, VoIP, virtualization, hardware, licensing, and storage. I have direct reports that perform help desk and analyst functions.  Professional Accomplishments  • Installing a hybrid SAN platform (Western Digital/Tegile) that incorporates advanced security and performance features that comply with state and federal security compliance laws  • Developing procedures for routine maintenance, onboarding, change management, disaster recovery, patch management, incident reporting, and support ticketing.  • Creating an automated inventory system to track device allocation and product life.  • Define roles for IT department staff and created performance metrics for yearly reviews.  • Created technology plans for hardware, software, and networking devices which included licensing renewals.  • Procurement of hardware, software, licensing, negotiate terms with VARs and worked with management team to develop the IT budget.  • Implemented a CyberSOC program to comply with state and federal security privacy and compliance laws.  • Developed training for IT staff and business divisions covering corporate policies and application rollouts. Systems Engineer NetStandard - Overland Park, KS August 2018 to February 2019 I worked as a consultant for small to medium businesses providing IT services including but not limited to: networking, active directory, virtualization, ERP support, storage, VoIP, and any other needs of the organization. Our company serviced over 430 accounts nationally. In this role I worked with a diverse stack of products and platforms.    Professional Accomplishments  • Designed and installed a fiber channel networks including routing, switching, web console configuration, and cabling.  • Virtualized physical servers, workstations, and network management tools (DMZ's, web consoles) to optimize performance and allow scalability.  • Managed rollouts of hardware and software upgrades utilizing virtualization and thin client technology.  • Worked with clients to optimize systems and create technology plans to upgrade, migrate, and or decommission infrastructure.  • Procured hardware, licensing, and negotiated support contracts on behalf of clients. Systems Administrator Packaging Products Corporation - Mission, KS May 2014 to August 2018 In 2014 I was brought into Packaging Products Corporation as the Systems Administrator and tasked with overhauling their entire infrastructure. During my tenure we have grown the infrastructure to include facilities in Georgia and Illinois that support over 400 internal and external users.    Professional Accomplishments  • Planned and installed a virtual Microsoft Hyper-V environment that leveraged fiber connectivity to publish business software platforms through Citrix to the entire organization. The system incorporates ten host machines and 49 virtual hosts.  • Redesigned the switch fabric to optimize network performance and throughput while establishing 99.5% (uptime) system availability.  • Facilitated process documentation for all IT systems related functions, which included server maintenance schedules, Active Directory (users, IP addressing, DNS assignments), and ERP administration.  • Established baselines for all hardware as well as the network and worked with my team to implement best practices for maintenance, configuration, and upgrades.  • Created an intranet site (Microsoft Sharepoint) that contains powerpoints, videos and links to training materials accessible to all employees and is part of the training process to date. Systems Administrator AB May Company - Leawood, KS June 2009 to May 2014 I was hired as a systems administrator to oversee the migration from paper to an automated workflow. I was a key team member in the planning, implementation, and evaluation of the enterprise resource planning system rollout. Education MBA University of Kansas School of Business May 2021 Bachelors of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Park University - Parkville, MO Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dns, Exchange, Vlan Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/richard-spearman-1295a041 Additional Information Technical Skills  Networks Systems/Scripts Software Hardware Organizational  Ethernet Fiber Server 2016 Server 2012 Server 2008R2 Active Directory DHCP, DNS GPO Systems installation/configuration/ Upgrading Project Management  VLAN Windows 7 VM Ware Hyper-V Technical Support Productivity Improvement  P2P Windows 8 Windows 10 MS Office (365) Exchange Server Software/Hardware Installations Process Documentation  MPLS LAN WAN SQL Linux Sonic Wall Pao Alto Sophos Peripheral Devices Thin Clients, Raspberry Pi's Workflow Planning  VPN SSL Citrix Cisco Barracuda Cisco ESA PBX VOIP Strategic Planning  Client/Server  DOS  Command Line  Powershell  Visual Basic    Cisco Fire Power  Apple OSX multiple versions    HP  IBM  Dell  SAN(EMC, Tegile)    Disaster Recovery    VOIP Shoretel Unitrends VEEAM Routers/Switches Servers Technical Training