Senior Sustaining Support Engineer Senior Sustaining Support Engineer Sr Sustaining Engineer at Accela South Salt Lake, UT Work Experience Senior Sustaining Support Engineer Accela, Inc - Draper, UT June 2018 to Present As a Sr Sustaining Support Engineer, I represent our customers' needs and use cases to the rest of the organization and address the most complex technical issues that arise. These range from working with internal employees and customers on an infrastructure issue, to local debugging of the product's code to determine the root cause of a defect.    I serve as the highest level technical resource for the Accela Civic Platform, and work with customers, engineering and product management to identify product defects, prioritize enhancements, and anticipate future challenges. As a senior member of my team, I assist other members of the Tier 3 support team, as well as our Tier 1 and Tier 2 customer facing support teams around the world. This may be in the form of mentoring and training, assisting with challenging issues or developing internal tools to address recurring issues and needs.    Beyond being a subject matter expert on product specific topics, I also own architectural aspects of the Civic Platform such as application performance, security, and platform compatibility, and handle highly critical and/or sensitive issues related to those areas of concern. Product Lead Ivanti Software - South Jordan, UT October 2017 to June 2018 As a Product Lead, I own components of the Ivanti UEM product line and am responsible for driving the success of these parts of the product for the benefit of Ivanti and its customers. This includes representing the concerns and desires of our customers and our support/services staff, and balancing them with the available time and resources of our software development teams, as well as making my product knowledge available to our support teams to reduce resolution times.    For my owned components, I serve as the highest technical resource available, and work with sales, marketing, product management, product development, and support in all capacities related to my components. This may include pre-sales demonstrations, running live webinars for our customers, working with support on at-risk accounts that need immediate resolution, collaborating with product development in testing new features, prioritizing stories and defects, and more.    In addition, I maintain expertise in major technologies that my components rely on, most notably IIS, T-SQL and .NET technologies, so that I can debug code related issues and recommend changes to product development before a customer or support is impacted. Sr. Technical Support Engineer Ivanti Software March 2017 to October 2017 As Sr. Technical Support Engineer, my day to day responsibilities are  comprised of working with Ivanti's customers to ensure their success with our products, assisting my teammates, and providing leadership for my team. In the absence of our manager, I also help manage my team's day to day functions and represent our team to other departments and teams.    Alongside our Product Support Engineers(backline), I serve as a point of escalation for more complex, or cross component issues, where other  members of front line support have failed to resolve the issue at hand.    In addition to my existing responsibilities as a Technical Support Engineer, I also train new hires and work with my department's managers to improve existing processes and coordinate trainings as needed to continue to growth of our team. I'm also responsible for managing our software library and adding to it by finding new and useful tools, or building them myself. Technical Support Engineer - LDMS Ivanti Software February 2017 to March 2017 Responsible for vendor level support and ownership of certain components of the Landesk Management Suite.    As a member of the Asset team, my main focus is in Inventory, Data Analytics, Software License Monitoring, and internal product authentication methods for login policies and user rights management. I'm also responsible for several other components, and supporting technologies such as Microsoft and Oracle databases.    On a daily basis, I'm generally working with systems administrators to implement certain features of the Landesk Management suite, provide guidance on best practices, address existing issues our customers have, and validate potential defects for further review.    Outside of those daily tasks, I work with the Product Leads over various LDMS components to highlight product defects or deficiencies that negatively impact our customers, create and update product documentation, train new hires, and handle critical account escalations. Technical Support Engineer - Shavlik Ivanti Software April 2016 to February 2017 As a Technical Support Engineer on the Shavlik team, I am responsible for vendor level support of all Shavlik products, including Shavlik Protect, Shavlik Patch, Shavlik Empower, and the Shavlik SDK.    On a day to day basis, I work with a wide range of technologies and customer environments, from less than 100 nodes to environments with several thousand nodes requiring specialized implementations.    I also work with our product development and management teams to ensure the Shavlik product line's development path is in line with customer needs.    My other responsibilities include creating and maintaining product documentation, staying current on technologies our products rely on, training new hires, assisting with pre-sales Q&A and PoC demonstrations, and handling priority cases from sales account managers. Systems Administrator Holiday Oil Convenience Stores - West Valley City, UT November 2015 to March 2016 As Systems Administrator, I was a one man IT department and responsible for the overall strategy, design and implementation for Holiday Oil's computer systems. I oversaw the deployment of windows 7 to 54 remote stores and the corporate HQ, as well as the migration of sales database from MS Access to SQL Server.    On a day to day basis, I created and sent out reports based on sales data, worked on in-house application development, worked with Store Directors on various incidents related to IT equipment and POS systems, and created documentation on common issues for the Store Directors.    During my time at Holiday, some major projects I saw through were:    Development and rollout of a company-wide helpdesk system, to address  store issues more efficiently and determine common pain points for future  prevention.    Migration from windows XP to Windows 7 for all workstations, to improve security and reliability for store and HQ employees.    Emulation of IBM AS400 and 3270 terminal applications, for access to legacy financial systems.    Development of a real-time sales data aggregation/reporting engine, giving sales executives and Store Directors the power to make informed decisions and spot time-based trends. Education BS in Business - IT Management WESTERN GOVERNER'S UNIVERSITY September 2017 to September 2020 BS in INFORMATION SYSTEMS NEUMONT UNIVERSITY September 2014 to July 2015 Skills C# (3 years), Java (4 years), Powershell (3 years), Windows Server (3 years), Terraform (1 year), Azure (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Certified Landesk Engineer August 2017 to Present