Server Engineer Server Engineer Server Engineer Downers Grove, IL Work Experience Server Engineer SDI Presence/Chicago Transit Authority November 2017 to April 2019 Configuring and troubleshooting Active Directory, enterprise printers, and print servers. Working with SCCM for remote user support, application installs and Microsoft patching. Configuring and creating group policies. Providing Exchange server administrative support. Trouble shooting issues with virtual and physical servers. Supporting backups and recovery for file servers and workstations. Configuration and troubleshooting NTFS permissions. DNS configuration and troubleshooting. DHCP configuration and troubleshooting. Running and creating PowerShell scripts. Support for over 3500 desktops, 2000 network devices and 400 servers across 190 locations. Systems Engineer TEKsystems/United Airlines - Schaumburg, IL June 2016 to June 2017 Support a large infrastructure of 10,000+ Windows based servers covering both internal IT and internet facing hosting solutions. End to end responsibility for server operations, including P2V, V2V, Server Builds, OS, hardware, patching, firmware, bios, and service packs, working with application packaging tools, Active Directory, Group Policy (GPOs), SCCM, Hyper-V, Clustering. Maintain and manage server hardware and software to ensure stability and availability 24X7X365. Ensure enterprise standards and security are maintained and enforced on hardware/software. Provide knowledge and troubleshooting expertise during incidents and problem management follow-up. Provide problem resolution and advice on problem avoidance, institute changes or update to ensure stability. Provide consultation and direct technical support in life cycle planning, problem management, integration, and systems programming. Implement releases, upgrades, and/or changes into the environment. Ensure platform performance and availability meet enterprise objectives through monitoring, timely service restoration, and tuning. Duties included capacity planning, workload modeling, system maintenance/administration, and diagnostics. Senior Windows Administrator Judge Group - Hoffman Estates, IL October 2015 to June 2016 Support a large infrastructure of 5,000+ Windows based servers covering both internal IT and internet facing hosting solutions. On point escalation for day-to-day support covering all systems in the infrastructure. Review and discuss technical issues, assess and document recommended changes. Analyzes, acquires, installs, modifies and supports Windows operating systems. Automation/scripting and systems support activities, including system integration and monitoring. Analyze and troubleshoot Active Directory components, including Group Policy and DNS. Creates and maintains documentation of systems processes and procedures • Resolves complex requests escalated by junior administrators or NOC. Serves as a mentor for junior administrators and NOC support. Work with various teams to ensure system configurations are in compliance with corporate policies and control standards. Works with other team members to identify and suggest service improvements and/or new technology solutions. Work with Network and Storage teams to plan and design new server/application implementations. Good knowledge of Network, SAN, security compliance and VMware virtualization technology. Strong understanding of DNS, TCP/IP, Active Directory and group policy, IIS, SMTP, Load Balancing, MS Clustering. Systems Administrator Addison Group/Lia Sophia - Schaumburg, IL January 2015 to October 2015 Performs analysis, diagnosis, and resolution of complex server problems. Makes recommendations on the upgrade and reallocation of computer equipment. Evaluates compatibility and requirements for new hardware and software solutions. Supports and ensures availability of voice and data communications. Installs, configures. tests, maintains, monitors, and troubleshoots server performance to ensure client connectivity is maintained. Develops project plans and manages timelines for installations, enhancements and upgrades. Involves necessary resources and communicates effectively with team and user community to ensure successful implementation. Collaborates and coordinates installation of software upgrades and patches. Completes necessary change control documentation outlining requirements, recovery options, impacts to management, etc. Provides support on desktop systems and Mac as necessary for the client computing environment. Maintains all documentation and procedures relating to servers, network, applications desktop and VOIP phone system. Systems Engineer Acxiom Corporation - Downers Grove, IL April 2008 to February 2014 On call for technical support both remotely via VPN and on site, resolving technical issues for clients in a timely and accurate manner. Build and maintain multi-client VMware and Microsoft virtual environments. Build and implement servers, clustered and non clustered. Install various network based software applications. Trouble shoot hardware and software issues, including SAN, and Servers. Trouble shoot issues with Citrix environments. Setup server remote control software. Maintain server patches. Install and maintain backup clients for multi client environment. Update procedures documentation. Track changes made to servers. Systems Engineer The Hub Group - Downers Grove, IL January 1998 to April 2008 On call for technical support and third level support, responding to inquires from clients and staff in a timely and accurate manner. Build and maintain VMware virtual environment. Implement IBM SAN and external storage including ISCSI. Served person as backup for firewall changes using Checkpoint firewall. Build and implement servers and PCs. Install various network based software applications. Migration of Novell environment to Microsoft, Active Directory. Trouble shoot hardware and software problems, including LAN, SAN, Servers and PCs. Setup and maintain backups for the Intel, AIX and Sun environments using Commvault, Arcserve and Backup Exec. Support Video Conference hardware and software. Train new employees. Serve as security officer for LAN and WAN applications. Set up new terminals and download information from AS/400 to network. Update procedures and run books. Install new versions of PTFs. Help Desk Analyst MTI Vacations - Downers Grove, IL June 1993 to January 1998 Awarded multiple awards, such as Rookie of the Year and Employee of the Month.On for technical support and second level support, responding to inquires from clients and staff in a timely and accurate manner. Trouble shoot hardware and software problems, including LANs and PC's. Wire and configure PC's for LAN. Also, install software and hardware on PC's. Train new employees; run, monitor and distribute nightly production. Serve as security officer for LAN and AS/400 applications. Download information from AS/400 to network. Update procedures and run books. Install new versions of PTFs. Responsible for saves and backups. Education Concepts Harold Washington College - Chicago, IL October 1994 Skills Active Directory, Virtualization, Vmware, Provisioning, Scripting