Network/ Systems Administrator Network/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network/ Systems Administrator - Business Computer Technicians Renton, WA ? Confident team member with eight years of military service in four foreign countries to demonstrate a well-rounded individual that is very cultured, dependable, and motived to learn new experiences.  ? Systems Administrator with experience configuring, monitoring, upgrading and maintaining systems hardware, software and related infrastructure.  ? Strong analytical skills; able to work with people from various engineering disciplines to troubleshoot complex system-level issues.  ? Looking for a System Administrator position where I can further my current skills and become an organizational asset. Work Experience Network/ Systems Administrator Business Computer Technicians - Tukwila, WA May 2017 to Present Highlights:  ? Created, maintained, and managed multiple clientele's network infrastructure to include servers, PBX phone systems, backup solutions, etc.  ? Maintained customer relationships with on-site and remote support.  ? Administration of Microsoft Active Directory, Exchange, Office 365, SharePoint, etc.  ? Migrated, upgraded, and created VM servers using Hyper-V and VMware ESXi.  ? Assisted with special projects, new network/firewall/server implementation and setups, etc.  ? Supported and troubleshot Windows desktops and servers/Mac OSX/smartphones common issues.  ? Collaborated with multiple IT teams, outsourced software support, to quickly resolve customer issues.  ? Created and Documented technical documentation of resolutions and How-To for users.  ? Planned, coordinated, and implemented network security measure to protect data, software, and hardware. Network Services/ Systems Administrator Intern CNISS - Lakewood, WA May 2016 to May 2017 Provide systems administration support for Unix/Linux and Windows systems including server and workstation upgrades, backup and disaster recovery monitoring, user account creation, and security administration. Provide support to the Help Desk technicians when needed.  Highlights:  ? Installed and configured Windows Server 2003/2008 R2/2012 R2 servers on virtual machines using VSphere software.  ? Created, Maintained, and Archived user accounts in Windows Active Directory and Office 365 to employees on campus.  ? Troubleshot common issues in a Windows/Linux based environment.  ? Troubleshot sync errors with user's mailbox accounts with Office 365 using Windows PowerShell.  ? Maintained VLAN TV systems around campus to ensure they are functioning properly.  ? Conducted Daily, Weekly, Monthly, and Yearly backups on servers using Commvault software.  ? Created and configured VM servers using CentOS for the purpose of an SMTP mail relay server.  ? Documented operating system installations and configurations, as well as improvements to processes and procedures.  ? Monitored campus servers and switches to ensure they are functioning properly.  ? Troubleshot and installed CPU, Memory, Monitors, and Printers issues and resolved them in a promptly manor.  ? Performed System updates around campus to ensure client computers are updated with latest system patches.  ? Trained new Interns and staff on using new software. Fuels Journeyman United States Air Force - Joint Base Lewis McChord, WA November 2006 to November 2014 Provide fuel & cryogenic support to Aircrafts. Documented discrepancies in fuel receipt quantities and quality. Isolated off-specification products and took appropriate actions to correct quality problems. Ensure compliance with all safety and environmental regulations. Education Bachelor's in Applied Science: Information Technology: Network Administration and Security Green River Community College - Auburn, WA September 2017 to August 2019 Associate in Computer Networking and Information Systems Security Clover Park Technical College - Lakewood, WA January 2015 to May 2017 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Iis, Switching, Vmware, Apache, Linux, Hyper-v, Voip, Ios, Ms office, Mail server, Pbx, Windows server 2003, Mac, Journeyman, Auditing, Hardware troubleshooting, Networking, Microsoft Office, Windows 7, Windows, Security, Customer Service, Technical Support, Firewalls (2 years), System Admin, System Administrator Links http://linkedin.com/in/edwin-col%C3%B3n-6ba2a416 Additional Information Technical Skills  Proficient Expert Journeyman  ? Microsoft Active Directory/Azure Sync  ? Windows Server 2003-2019  ? VOIP PBX and Softphones  ? Contingency Plans  ? Cisco IOS/ Routing/Switching  ? Hyper-V, VMWare, Xen Server,  ? Cybersecurity Policies  ? Windows Powershell    ? OS Installation and Configuration  ? Server/Desktop Support  ? WindowsXP/Vista/7/8.1/10  ? Mac Operating System  ? Linux Operating Systems  ? MS Office  ? Hardware Troubleshooting    ? Baselines and Auditing  ? Linux based Mail Server  ? Switches and Routers  ? NAS4Free (Back-up Storage)  ? Microsoft IIS/Apache  ? Commvault/Datto Back-up Storage  ? Palo Alto/ SonicWall/ Mikrotik implementation and support.    Available for Weekend and Evening Shifts ? Able to Relocate Nationwide