Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Atalian Global Services\Temco Services Inc Bronx, NY Work Experience Systems Administrator Atalian Global Services\Temco Services Inc - New York, NY 2006 to Present • Managing all Helpdesk issues throughout the company.  • Administrating the company Network and Server base systems such as Routers, Switches, VMware Servers, Checkpoint VPN Firewall, MS Domain Controllers.  • Manage Microsoft Share point sites.  • Administrating Active Directory domain.  • Managing Microsoft Admin site for Office 365 E-mail and Applications services.  • Asset management of all company computer equipment.  • Managing Avaya PBX phone system and Avaya Audix voicemail system.  • Manage installations of all ISP's for company business locations.  • Create default system build images for system deployment company wide.  • Responsible for the security of all Company data.  • Maintain and support of all Copy/Printers  • Logging and Managing all company software licenses and Hardware Warranties.  • Administrating Messaging for mobile devices. Managing Barracuda Cloud Base Backups.  • Manage Novatime Time and Attendant's employee system.  • Input requisitions into JD Edwards for IT orders  • Managing maintenance of over 100 remote users throughout North America. Desktop Administrator Insight Communications Headquarters - New York, NY 2000 to 2006 • Logging trouble tickets using remedy action request system.  • Manage domain user accounts and e-mail accounts on MS Exchange.  • Installed, supported and set up of RIM handheld blackberry devices.  • Helping end users with their application issues.  • Setting up of new user's desktops and laptops.  • Troubleshooting various support calls issues for just over 3000 user's  • Creating default systems and build ghost images for desktop deployment.  • Deploy software using MSI packages.  • Installation of ADP Payroll software, Lawson Finance software, Cobra benefits software and upgrading hardware, software and peripherals on desktops.  • Configure Desktops and laptops for remote access using VPN access and remote desktop capabilities.  • Removal of all viruses, Spy-ware and Ad-ware to all of the production desktops.  • Administrating MS Exchange server, BES Servers, File Server, Windows NT Domain, Active Directory and Ghost image server  • Creating Daily backup/restore schemes for company data  • Performing Server Maintenance, Managing PBX phone system and voicemail system  • Setting up test lab environment for evaluation of new industry products. PC Support Specialist National Urban League - New York, NY 1998 to 2000 • Installation of Blackbaud Raisers edge fund raising tracking database system, Kintera Fundware finance asset tracking software system  • Administered, designed, implemented and maintained internal computer systems  • Responsible for Terminal Server, NT Server & Exchange 5.0/5.5  • Responsible for the Administration, installation, upgrading, and backup/restore using ARC ServeIT Server solution as well as telecommunications administration for the LAN, WAN, RAS dial in  • Responsible for Capacity planning, hardware & software optimizing performance and productivity of the network infrastructure as well as Security administration  • Experience as lead technician in the operation of a Windows 95/98/ NT & 2000 environment  • Testing new products in test lab environment for product assessment report  • Training of new staff members, logging trouble tickets using track-it, planning and organizing implementing new policies and technologies to everyday operations. Education Learning Tree Training Center - New York, NY April 2009 Customer Service Institute - New York, NY June 2000 Diploma Computer Technician Training Program - New York, NY May 1998 Skills Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin