Administrative Director Administrative Director Administrative Director Ellicott City, MD Volunteer Employment Counselor at the Grassroots Crisis and Intervention Center, Columbia, Maryland    English Tutor at the Esperanza Immigration Center, Catholic Charities Maryland, and Gugma Sa Kabataan Cagayan de Oro, Philippines    Twenty-seven years of service with the U. S. Senate as a human resource and information technology administrator for 40 employee offices, and six years in the Pacific Fleet as weapons systems technician.    • Trained and managed forty personnel offices.    • Worked in a high-pressure, political and time-sensitive environment with little margin for error, including the development of an annual budget of more than $3 million and personnel management for our team    • Excellent management, interpersonal skills and a high aptitude for leveraging database and other information systems for knowledge workers and office management    • Developed, deployed and administered many networks, websites, and database information systems for staff and constituencies    • Active leader in U.S. Senate staff advocacy organizations and bicameral groups for civil society advocacy in Africa    • Three deployments and six years as a missies and gun fire control systems in the United States Navy Work Experience Administrative Director UNITED STATES SENATE January 2009 to January 2015 Office of Senator Mark Begich  Administrative Director for a new member of the U.S. Senate; managed 40 employees for an aggressive freshman Senator and his staff; fostered rapid office growth, and good staff interrelations in a high-pressure environment. Managed and mentored staff growth and benefits with various customized databases systems for our Washington DC, and five state office operations.    • Hired, oriented, and terminated support staff upon appropriate approval from Chief of Staff or Senator    • Managed the deployment of an Oracle-based CRM of 376,000 records for our Alaskan constituencies    • Maintained a U.S. Senate customized database of 300 personnel files on permanent staff, interns, volunteers and applicants    • Assumed responsibility for liaison with the U.S. Senate Legal Counsel, Rules and Administration Committee and Ethics Committee, ensured our office's compliance with legal and ethical standards enforced for the U.S. Senate    • Prepared, managed and oversaw the $3 million office administrative budget, accounts and financial obligations with the U. S. Senate, including financial operations and maintenance of the payroll    • Directly supervised our front office, information systems and mail staff and operations staff Systems Administrator Offices of Six Senators October 1991 to January 2009 the Judiciary Committee and Senate Sergeant At Arms (SAA)    Administered Microsoft Servers, Active Directory and Exchange Systems for eight different U.S. Senate offices; used information technology proactively to keep member office staff well-informed and to communicate with constituents via ColdFusion websites, Microsoft systems, Oracle and customized databases. Responsible for Senator Patrick Leahy's 3 Congressional Management Foundation "Gold Mouse Awards, " and Senator Jean Carnahan's Bronze Award, for public websites developed, deployed, and maintained in office. Helped to develop, deploy and administer Senator Begich's platinum and silver award winning website.    • Installed and maintained various servers for Senator Leahy in our own "Microsoft office forest network" as a value adds to the functions supported by the standard configuration, including UNIX-based systems  Maintained and supported 4 or 5 Apple desktops and devices in a Microsoft network    • Introduced information technology to two U.S. Senate Sergeant-At-Arms Offices when personal computers became integral to office business processes. Designed, deployed and managed database systems for two SAA offices to serve the U. S. Senate's population of 6,000 + staff    • Managed the new office start-up of mail processing and information technology office operations for three U.S. Senate offices    • Elected President of the 150-member U.S. Senate Systems Administrators' Association twice, and active in Senate-wide office information techno policy formulations among the U.S. Senate community    • Coded a spreadsheet-based accounting system for the U.S. Senate Post Office that was used 10 years beyond my departure from the Sergeant At Arms' office. Education Bachelor's in Sociology University of Maryland - College Park, MD 1988 to June 1992 Weapons Fire Control Technician School Skills Microsoft Office, Human Resources, Payroll, Organizational Skills, training, Office Management, Scheduling, Outlook, Billing Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified June 2016 to June 2020 HARDWARE  Identifying, using, and connecting hardware components and devices    0WINDOWS ?OPERATING SYSTEMS  Install and support Windows OS including command line & client support    SOFTWARE TROUBLESHOOTING  Troubleshoot PC and mobile device issues including application security support    NETWORKING  Explain types of networks and connections including TCP/IP, WIFI and SOHO    HARDWARE & NETWORK TROUBLESHOOTING  Troubleshoot device and network issues    SECURITY  Identify and protect against security vulnerabilities for devices and their network connections    MOBILE DEVICES  Install & configure laptops and other mobile devices    OTHER OS & TECHNOLOGIES  Understand Mac OS, Linux and mobile OS    OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES  Follow best practices for safety, environmental impacts, and communication and professionalism  Cambridge University Press CELTA: Accreditation # 501/1891/2 February 2017 to Present CELTA certification is awarded to successful candidates using the syllabus and course aims provided by Cambridge English Language Assessment.  The syllabus consists of five topic areas:  • Topic 1 – Learners and teachers, and the teaching and learning context  • Topic 2 – Language analysis and awareness  • Topic 3 – Language skills: reading, listening, speaking and writing  • Topic 4 – Planning and resources for different teaching contexts  • Topic 5 – Developing teaching skills and professionalism.  My place of learning was Teaching House, Washington DC.