System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator San Diego, CA Work Experience System Administrator Generali Travel Protection - Sheldon Turner STurner@CSATravelProtion.com January 2018 to July 2018 Primary responsibilities included monitoring daily Symantec backups, managing our VMWare environment, installation, configuration, learning to manage and train other staff on GFI LanGuard, GFI event manager and Opmanager. Also support for Office 365 migration and Tier3 help desk support. Some network support.    • AD Administration  • VMware Management  • GFI Languard  • GFI Event manager  • Manage Engine OPmanager  • Symantec Backup Exec  • Office 365/Exchange online Sr. Systems Admin Salk Institute for Biological Studies - Frank Dwyer December 2016 to October 2017 Contractor)  Primary responsibilities included support to Laboratories and Scientist in the areas of DNA imaging, storage, email and network support. Daily activities included managing VM environment, MSExchange monitoring, DB maintenance, verifying complete backups and testing the restore process, various AD modifications, such as group policy creation or reporting as needed.    • Active Directory integration among multiple platforms, Mac, Windows, Linux  • VMWare 6.0 in UCS environment  • NetBackup for all systems, Windows, Linux, Mac  • Exchange 2013 administration  • Nagios and Cacti Monitoring  • Tier 3 help desk support  • WSUS Creation and all server patching Systems Engineer Sempra Energy - Bill Fischer BFisher@sempralng.com May 2016 to September 2016 Contractor)  Sr. Level Systems Engineer responsible for support to the Sr. level data center team and Tier II team. Responsibilities included daily server builds with proper vetting within VMWare and answering most tickets that came in though MSCOM from any of the 200+ help desk staff and managers within Sempra Energy. In addition, file restore, AD modifications, mailbox and DL creation, and participating in meetings regarding Azure and O365 were daily activities.  • VMWare 5.5  • MSCOM  • MS Orchestrator  • Exchange 2013  • CommVault Backup Software  • Updating SOP and server matrix documentation Systems Engineer Phacil, Inc - San Diego, CA May 2012 to November 2015 Full Time)  Sr. Level engineer maintaining production and development datacenters comprised of physical and ESX hosts for US military contracts.  * Maintained 20 IIS and SQL cluster servers that comprised MyArmyOneSource.com.  * Responsible for all aspects of Active Directory running on Server 2012 in multiple domains  * V-Sphere 5.5  * Exchange 2010 Bill.Jenkins@cox.net - San Diego, CA September 2007 to October 2011 Senior Systems Engineer NETWORK INSIGHT - San Diego, CA March 2003 to September 2007 Provided professional network services and securities support to large and small area clients, including Otay Water District, San Diego Unified Schools, and the University of San Diego. Utilized project management and technical sales skills to ensure positive and productive relationships with clients.  * Spearheaded a wide variety of projects, including migration from Netware to Active Directory, migration from Windows NT to Server 2003, SMS, Exchange upgrade, network analysis and design, and security assessments, design, and implementation.  * Developed security protocols, as well as disaster recover plans.  * Insured proper infrastructure design and integration of multiple services. Senior Systems Engineer CORPORATE TECHNOLOGIES - Fargo, ND 1997 to 2002 Income generating systems engineer responsible for complete client network administration in outsourcing capacity for small to large companies. Knowledgeable IT professional, tasked with network solutions, including formulation and configuration, as well as LAN environments, Exchange, SQL, Citrix, and ISS servers, and firewalls and VPNs.  * Provided implementation, deployment, training, and troubleshooting of client networks in multiple LAN evironments.  * Configured and supported multiple Exchange, SQL, Citrix, and IIS servers, and installed PIX and SonicWall firewalls, as well as VPNs between sites.  * Implemented enterprise solutions for disaster recover, virus protection, and remote administration. Education Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer North Dakota State University - Fargo, ND Skills EXCHANGE (10+ years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (8 years), VMWARE (5 years), SQL (10+ years), PROJECT MANAGEMENT (4 years), System Administrator, System Admin, SCCM Additional Information Areas Of Expertise    * IT Infrastructure  * VMWare ESXi 6.0  * MS Active Directory  * Symantec & NetCenter Backup  * Exchange 2013  * Office365/Exchange Online    * GFI Languard  * GFI Event Viewer  * ManageEngine OpManager  * Citrix Farm  * SQL 2008  * Network Design    * VoIP Administration  * System Security Compliance  * Budgeting & Forecasting  * Strategic Planning  * SOP Creation  * Project Management