UNIX Systems Administrator UNIX <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> UNIX Systems Administrator - Sag-Aftra Saugus, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UNIX Systems Administrator Sag-Aftra - Los Angeles, CA 2015 to Present Los Angeles, CA; 2015 to Present    The Largest Actor, performer union in the world supporting over 160,000 members both those in the public eye and behind the scenes of the entertainment industry.    UNIX Systems Administrator, Responsible for 24/7 365 support of Production, Stage, Test, & Development environments. Working closely with both Oracle & Web development team. Infrastructure support for Linux Redhat 5-8 & Unbutu 14-18 servers running on Vmware & physical servers, Main duties included support for sagaftra.org website from development to production deployments. Applications supported were Apache, Mysql, LDAP, Tomcat, Geronimo, Drupal, GIT, Oracle DB & EBS, SFTP, Linux printing, Weblogic, IPPLAN, Solar Winds, Redhat Satellite, Redhat IDMIPA, Unbutu Lanscape, Jira, Confluence, ClamAV, & Track-it UNIX Systems Administrator Verizon Wireless - Irvine, CA 2014 to 2015 Responsible for after hours Solaris 10/11 Systems Administration whose main focus was support for production, pre-production, QA, and development environments across four domestic data centers involving thousands of servers both physical and virtual. Focusing on all issues related to hardware, application, database, network, storage, maintenance, and outages across all environments. Which included sever deployment, patching, monitoring, upgrades, evaluation, troubleshooting across all environments. Daily duties also included support of DBA, Storage, Network, and Development Teams; ZFS, VxVM, Solaris Zones, Solaris LDOM, IPMP, HP open view, Oracle Rac, Veritas Cluster, Live Upgrade, file systems backup and restores, and Exadata support UNIX Systems Administrator St. Jude Medical - Sylmar, CA 2013 to 2014 Sylmar, CA; 2013 to 2014  St. Jude Medical is a worldwide leader of internal medical devices to enhance quality of life for millions of people. Some of most significant products they manufacture include Atrial Fibrillation, Cardiac Rhythm Management, Vascular, & Neuromodulation devices.    UNIX Systems Administrator  Responsible for 24/7 365 support in a heterogeneous environment across a worldwide network of 1200 plus servers in multiple data centers foreign and domestic. Daily duties include all aspects of support for Oracle/Sun, Dell, HP, IBM hardware running RedHat Data Protection L2 NBCUniversal - Studio City, CA 2012 to 2012 to 2012  NBCUniversal is a world wide leader in every genre of entertainment ranging from Television, Cinema, Music, and Amusement Parks.    Data Protection L2  Responsible for 24/7 365 support as well as maintain implement enhance and repair every aspect of a global Symantec Netbackup environment running 70,000 plus backup jobs nightly from 4000 plus servers. This involved backing up various O/S & infrastructures Solaris, AIX, Linux, windows, VMware, Mysql, SQL, Oracle RMAN to tape, VTL, disk storage (Data Domain), deduplication, NDMP. Sr. UNIX Systems Administrator EverBridge - Glendale, CA 2008 to 2011 Glendale, CA; 2008 to 2011  EverBridge is one of the industries leaders in providing Emergency/Disaster/Business notifications for a variety of organizations that include: MCCS, Virginia Tech University, State of Connecticut, Barclays, University of Michigan, & US Census Bureau.    Sr. UNIX Systems Administrator  Responsible for systems administration in a Redhat Linux environment for 200 plus servers. More than fifty-five servers exist in a virtual environment, which requires 365 24 by 7 technical support. The scope of the technical support included four data centers in North America; two reside in the United States and two reside in Canada.  Major accomplishments include: Installing HP C7000 blade architecture to improve uptime, throughput, and redundancy for EverBridge's applications. Implemented server consolidation to reduce the development and QA environment by 75%. This implementation consisted of installing a VMware ESX server where it was best suited to improve data center costs. Provided application support for in-house applications which included: Java, Apache, Oracle Application Server (OAS), Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Symantec Netbackup, Interactive Voice Response (IVR), Geographic information system (GIS) and VMware ESX server. UNIX Systems Administrator Warner Music Group - Burbank, CA 2005 to 2008 Responsible for system administration in a heterogeneous environment for 500 plus servers in five domestic sites in a 365 24 by 7 technical support environment. Also, provided 24-hour technical on-call support for the third largest music company in the world. Additionally, involved in a major server consolidation project designed to reduce server imprint by 50 servers using new server hardware and server virtualization with newer, faster, server hardware. This server consolidation resulted in saving thousands of dollars annually in data center costs and affected: up time, power, cooling, rack space, and contract support costs. Server application support included the following: Oracle, HP Openview, WMG in-house applications, PHP hosting, Apache, JBOSS, and Cold Fusion. Education Business Administration Pierce College - Woodland Hills, CA 1994 to 1999 A.S. in Electronics and Computer Technology Electronics Institute - Pittsburgh, PA 1981 to 1983 Skills Oracle, Apache, Irix, Linux, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Ux, Hp open view, Open view, Hp-ux, Legato, Cisco, Ldap, System administration, Vmware, Vpn, Backups, Disaster recovery, Kerberos, Red Hat, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, Redhat, Shell, Scripting Additional Information EXPERTISE    • Unix System Administrator for the following O/S platforms: Sun Solaris, Sun OS, Redhat Linux, Unbutu, HP-UX, and IRIX.  • Various Sun software tools ZFS, Jumpstart, WanBoot, Live Upgrade, SunMC, Sun CST, and Update Manager.  • Server Virtualization software Solaris Zones, LDOM, and VMware ESX server.  • Responsible for Sox implementation and remediation for the entire UNIX server environment to meet global Compliance for SOX.  • Symark Power Password implementation to meet global Compliance for SOX.  • Server application support for Oracle OEM and OAS, HP Open View, Nagios, Solar Winds, Splunk, Alert Logic, WMG in house apps, Web site application support for: PHP, Apache, JBOSS, Cold Fusion and Web site server support.  • Digital Delivery install and setup for secure delivery of documents to internal and external customer base.  • Veritas Storage Foundation 4.1 installation and configuration on Sun Servers.  • Disaster Recovery, system restoration, system backups using Symantec Veritas NetBackup, and Legato Network backup.  • System Administration responsibilities for remote offices. Connect using Cisco terminal servers, VNC, SSH, SSL SFTP, VPN and other remote login techniques.  • Extensive work with Sun NIS package for distributed system administration and authentication. Also Kerberos and LDAP authentication in a Redhat Linux environment.  • Hardware troubleshooting and repair for servers and desktops for Sun, HP, and Dell hardware I.E. Sun 25/15/10K, M5000, M4000, T Series, X4600, X4200, E2900, V490, E3000 to E6500, HP T, J, and B series servers, HP 3800, 3600, C7000, BL680. BL460 blade systems. Dell 2950. 2850, 2650, 1950, and 1850  • Nearly 12 years supervisory experience. Proven track record in setting expectations, organizing, communicating and motivating people to deliver results that exceed expectations.    LaVal A. Bey