Devops Engineer/ Systems Engineer Devops Engineer/<span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Devops Engineer/ Systems Engineer - GPS Insight Mesa, AZ 9 years experience in Linux administration for various sized companies. Maintained production and development environments of various sizes. Skilled at root-cause analysis and tackling new technical challenges. A self-motivated, driven, and adaptable person. Work Experience Devops Engineer/ Systems Engineer GPS Insight - Scottsdale, AZ April 2015 to Present Maintains a 24x7 hybrid cloud environment, as part of an on-call rotation  ? Improved and maintained the deployment process using automation tools, including Ansible, Terraform and Packer  ? Oversees and ensures compliance with certification and regulatory controls.  ? Maintains, monitors and implements in design for 4 DC Casssandra cluster in both co-loc and AWS cloud for production, development and sandbox environments.  ? Provides Infrastructure as a code for automating the deployment of Production, Development and Sandbox environments Engineer Infoarmor - Scottsdale, AZ July 2013 to March 2015 Maintained a mixed Linux and VMWare Environment  ? Implemented, deployed and maintained automated server build infrastructure, using Ansible and Cobbler  ? Setup and deploy monitoring of production of environment utilizing Zabbix  ? Performed regular security audits to ensure various compliance standards were met  ? Provided Technical support and guidance for customer issues  ? Coordinated, planned and implemented long term and short term projects  ? Setup, implemented, deployed and maintained disaster recovery and business continuity Plan Systems Administrator Highwinds Network Group - Phoenix, AZ June 2011 to July 2013 Provided on-call support of a 24x7 distributed Linux production environment  ? Monitored production systems and responded to production impacting incidents within a 30 minute SLA window  ? Carried to completion engineering related projects  ? Provided Tier 2 support for customer reported issues  ? Wrote, modified and maintained shell, Perl and Python scripts  ? Upgraded and maintained Linux systems in multiple production environments Systems Administrator Paypal - Scottsdale, AZ June 2009 to June 2011 Imaged servers and tested with tools such as Kickstart, Jumpstart, Veritas Opforce, and HPSA/Opsware  ? Racked and setup server hardware  ? Maintained, repaired, and improved the development environment's network and system infrastructure  ? Lead and assisted with projects including a development lab build out, datacenter server build-outs and server upgrade projects  ? Maintained internal sites for technical documentation  ? Maintained and set up asset management tools Skills Linux, Docker, Nagios, Red hat, Solaris Additional Information Technical Skills  ? 9 Years Linux administration experience working with Various distributions  ? Experience with Red Hat Enterprise Linux and Sun/Oracle Solaris  ? Experience building, deploying and maintaining docker containers  ? Hands-on interaction and experience with the setup and maintenance of automation tools, including ansible, terraform and Docker  ? Detailed knowledge and experience with maintaining production environments with hybrid cloud environments, utilizing Amazon AWS  ? Experience with Nagios, Grafana, and exposure to Prometheus  ? Experience with Large Production environments  ? Experience with mysql database setup and migrations  ? Exposure and Hands-on experience with Cassandra/Scylla NoSQL databases in hybrid cloud deployments