Job Seeker McKinney, TX Work Experience Southern Glazers Wine & Spirits April 2019 to Present of Windows 2008 - 2019 operating Systems  • Administration of VMWare vSphere v5 and v6  • Creates, updates, and maintains support documentation as needed and required.  • Create technical design documents and install application according to design documents.  • Responsible for Active Directory administration  • Responsible for working Service Center tickets to resolve customer issues  • Responsible for the E-Fax cloud migration.  • Responsible for Submitting changes through the Change Management Process. Contractor Texas Capitol Bank - Capitol, Texas, US January 2018 to December 2018 • Administration of Exchange and SQL clusters  • Administration of VMWare vSphere v5 and v6  • Creates, updates, and maintains support documentation as needed and required.  • Create technical design documents and install application according to design documents.  • Responsible for Active Directory administration  • Responsible for Microsoft DNS administration Sr. Windows/ VMWare Systems Administrator JP Morgan Chase - Dallas, TX July 2016 to November 2017 • Responsible for managing over 800 physical and virtual server's  • Responsible for managing the ESX 4.0, 5.0, 5.1 and 6.0 environments  • Applied Windows Security patching of all of the servers  • Responsible for managing hardware, operating system, installation, upgrades, security, maintenance, and stability for the 1700 Windows 2003, and Windows 2008R2, and 2012 systems.  • Performing P2V and V2V migrations using VCenter Converter  • Responsible for build out and management of the VMware environment and VM server build  • Assist in the management of the Active Directory  • Assist in the management of the Microsoft DNS Sr. Windows Systems Administrator Fiserv - Dallas, TX April 2014 to July 2016 • Maintain DR site and ensure all systems are replicated and available for DR  • Responsible for managing over 600 server's physical and virtual  • Managed the ESX 4.0, 5.0, 5.1 and 6.0 environments  • Responsible for working closely with Security teams to ensure we are SOX/PCI compliance.  • Responsible for the Windows Security patching of all servers  • Responsible for managing of hardware, operating system, installation, upgrades, security, maintenance, and stability for the 600 Windows 2003, and Windows 2008R2, and 20012 systems.  • Responsible for build out and management of the VMware environment and VM server build.  • Assist in the management of the Active Directory Sr. Windows Systems Administrator Cardtronics - Frisco, TX August 2012 to April 2014 • Responsible for VMWARE - Virtual Console, VSphere VM server build, management, and migrations  • Responsible for managing the NetApp Storage environment for the company, configuring LUN's and Data Stores and adding storage to the server as needed.  • Managing the ESX 4.0, 5.0, and 5.1 environments  • Configuring and managed the Cisco UCS blade environment  • Worked closely with Security teams on initiatives such as SOX/PCI.  • Responsible for the evaluation of Windows Security Patches and the patching of all servers  • Responsible for managing of hardware, operating system, installation/upgrades security, maintenance, and stability for 400 Windows 2000, Windows 2003, and Windows 2008R2 systems Contractor Bank of America - Richardson, TX November 2011 to August 2012 Sr. Windows Systems Administrator  • Responsible for performing installation's, customization and maintenance of operating system and system software products in support of business requirements  • Performs system software installations, system software maintenance and product upgrades.  • Responsible for VMWARE - Virtual Console, VSphere VM server build, management, and migrations  • Responsible for loading standalone and VM's using Bladelogic Server Provisioning Portal. Systems Administrator IV Sprint - Overland Park, KS February 1999 to November 2011 • Responsible for planning and implementation of hardware, operating system, installation/upgrades, security, maintenance, and stability for 750+ Windows based systems.  • Manage break fix operations on the 750+ server environment and provide 24/7 on call support  • Team lead for six person Windows team, responsible for delegating and managing the workload within the workspace and maintaining day to day and on call requirements for Windows based platforms  • Provide performance analysis and interpretation of results resulting in an action plan to improve server performance of Windows, SQL Server, COTS, and custom applications  • Disaster recovery plan for hardware, software and data on Windows based systems  • Deploy and maintain a blade system infrastructure to support power and space reduction for Windows based servers. Soldier U.S. Army November 1987 to February 1999 Education Bachelor of Information Technology in Information Systems American InterContinental University - Hoffman Estates, IL Associate of Arts in Business Administration in Information Systems American InterContinental University - Hoffman Estates, IL Skills Active directory, Citrix, Vmware, Load balancing, Virtual server, Sql server, Sql, Internet information server, Sftp, Ghost, R2, Wireless, Windows 2000, Office 97, Sniffer Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Sgt Additional Information • More than 18 years of experience with Windows based systems and 12 years of that in the telecommunication industry maintaining both revenue generating and support infrastructure systems.  • Responsible for providing expert Citrix knowledge to assist in the expanded growth and configuration of the existing Citrix environment  • Involved in architecture, design planning, discussions, and meetings for the design and build-out project of a new 4000+ concurrent user Citrix farm.  • Windows systems experience in design, deployment, security, maintenance, and performance  • Manage and maintain many systems and platforms with budgets exceeding millions of dollars    TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Operating Systems: Windows NT4- 2008(including Active Directory), VMware ESX Server version  5 & 6, Microsoft Virtual Server, Windows PE  • Hardware: Servers, Blades, Wireless (HP, Intel, Dell), Network General Sniffer  • Applications: SQL Server 7 - 2008, System Center, Internet Information Server, WSUS, Citrix XenServer, Office 97 - 2010, Dameware, Ghost, VanDyke (ssh/sftp), Citrix Presentation Server 4.0 /4.5,  • Other Skills: Windows and SQL Clusters, Load balancing clusters, Automation and deployments Configure SAN Storage on Windows 2000 - 2008 R2 Servers