Systems Support Analyst <span class="hl">Systems</span> Support Analyst Van Voorhis, PA Telecommunications Systems Support Analyst with over 20 years experience providing support in contact center environments. Work Experience Systems Support Analyst Bank Of America - Pittsburgh, PA November 2010 to May 2019                   AREAS OF EFFECTIVENESS         • Work Force Management Systems – eWFM  • Aspect System Management Suite  • SQL querying of ACD and dialer call records via Toad and MS SQL Server 2008       • Project Management  • Change Management  • Carrier traffic rerouting with AT&T Direct and Verizon   • Aspect System Integration/Upgrades              • Aspect Unified 7.2, 7.3 Dialer  • Unified Command and Control Real-Time Business Admin Tool (UCC BAT)  • Unified Command and Control Real-Time Reporting (UCC RTR)  • Aspect Unified Agent Desktop (UAD)  • Aspect Uniphi Connect  • Unified IP Advanced List Management (ALM)                      • Enterprise Contact Server - ECS  • Aspect ACD Call Routing With CCT/CTI/IVR  • Avaya Call Management      • NICE call recording  • Aspect Quality Management call recording (AQM)  • Documentation  • Testing and troubleshooting system changes                                          • Disaster Recovery Planning    RESPONSIBILITIES         • Assist agents with desktop client issues.  •    • Updating management on incident and change tickets.  •    • Identify circuit outages and work with vendors, carriers to remediate promptly.  •    • Work with hardware and software vendors to remediate system issues quickly.  •    • Work with business units on dialer campaigns.  •    • Running database queries to investigate call routing concerns.  •    • Creating reports.  •    • Responsible for daily requests for adds, changes, deletes, call routing, recording (audio and screen activity), circuits, messaging, reporting, analysis, migrations, and upgrades.  •    • Call control table design and maintenance.  •    • Review of customer calls and processing of call recording retrieval requests.  •    • Manage server connectivity and disk space issues to remediation.   •    • Daily review of system logs and responding to system alerts promptly to guarantee system stability.   •    • Monitoring of real time systems for trunk and agent activity.  •    • Creation and review of postmortems with management on production impacting events. Incident root cause analysis.  •    • Provide after hours on call support as needed. Systems Administrator Sherwin Williams Company Headquarters - Cleveland, OH 1984 to 2008 Bank Of America    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Assist agents with desktop client issues.  • Updating management on incident and change tickets.  • Identify circuit outages and work with vendors, carriers to remediate promptly.  • Work with hardware and software vendors to remediate system issues quickly.  • Work with business units on dialer campaigns.  • Running database queries to investigate call routing concerns.  • Creating reports.  • Responsible for daily requests for adds, changes, deletes, call routing, recording (audio and screen activity), circuits, messaging, reporting, analysis, migrations, and upgrades.  • Call control table design and maintenance.  • Review of customer calls and processing of call recording retrieval requests.  • Manage server connectivity and disk space issues to remediation.  • Daily review of system logs and responding to system alerts promptly to guarantee system stability.  • Monitoring of real time systems for trunk and agent activity.  • Creation and review of postmortems with management on production impacting events.  • Provide after hours on call support as needed. Education High school or equivalent in Business and Computers Cuyahoga Community College Skills Workforce Management - eWFM (10+ years), Aspect Products - ACDs and UIP Dialer (10+ years), Advanced List Management (ALM) (10+ years), Change management (10+ years), Incident Management (10+ years), NICE call recording (10+ years), Disaster recovery planning (10+ years), Documentation (10+ years), Enterprise Contact Server - ECS (10+ years), Voice Recognition Systems - IVR (10+ years), MS SQL Server 2008 (10+ years), Project management (10+ years), Real-time (10+ years), Recovery planning (10+ years), Scheduling, maintenance, Outlook