Windows Systems Administrator Windows <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Windows Systems Administrator - Critical Path Institute Tucson, AZ Seeking a challenging position in the information technology Cyber Security field which utilizes my skillset to provide the highest quality systems administration, support and leadership in an enterprise environment. Further, leveraging the strengths of the business through personal engagement to ensure success. Work Experience Windows Systems Administrator Critical Path Institute - Tucson, AZ January 2015 to Present • Key player in the organization's ISO 27001 Information Security Management System; authored policy and procedure for security compliance, business continuity, disaster recovery, change management.  • Implemented a complete Information Technology Service Management system; directly managed components to include service desk operations, problem management, incident management, asset management, event management, availability management, release management, configuration management--Key Performance Indicators developed and reported to leadership  • Delivered an email archiving system to eliminate the use of PSTs and implemented with the use of Barracuda Message Archiver.  • Improved network performance by standing up a Windows 2012 Hyper-V Server and migrating over virtual machines from the current Citrix XenServer environment.  • Developed a new daily, weekly, and monthly backup strategy utilizing Altaro VM and CloudBerry Backup software.  • Administered five Hyper-V Hosts, and a total of 27 systems and maintained an above aver of 99% uptime on all systems.  • Decreased our physical footprint by combining servers and utilizing cloud resources.  • Decreased company system security vulnerabilities by implementing various security tools such as Nessus/ Tenable.io, ADAuditPlus, and EventLog Analyzer from ManageEngine.  • Currently act as the Systems Administrator/ Security Manager, while performing day to day operations and assisting the desktop department when needed. Systems Administrator Cisco Meraki, IOS, Android, Tenable.io, MangeEngine ServiceDesk Plus, Desktop Central, ADAudit Plus - Tucson, AZ January 2003 to January 2015 • Technologies: Azure/ Office365, AWS, Microsoft Server 2012/2016, Exchange, Windows 7/10, Cisco Meraki, IOS, Android, Tenable.io, MangeEngine ServiceDesk Plus, Desktop Central, ADAudit Plus, EventLog Analyzer, OpManager Plus, ADSelf Service, Dell PowerEdge, Barracuda Spam Firewall, Exchange Online Protection, Barracuda Message Archiver, Altaro VM Backup, ITIL, CloudBerry Cloud Backup.    Mintec, Inc., Tucson, AZ  Systems Administrator 1/03 - 1/15  • Performed all aspects of systems administration, including design, configuration, deployment, and maintenance.  • Oversaw the main Tucson Office and seven branch offices worldwide.  • Implemented best practices management of servers, security, performance optimization, and training tasks to maximize end user productivity.  • Maintain all existing server hardware/software environments, ensuring peak operating efficiency and minimal downtimes with the goal of no outages.  • Provide day-to-day administration and support for all messaging and collaboration systems.  • Establish and maintain preventive maintenance plans, disaster recovery plans, and security controls for all networks, attached systems, and client computers.  • Support the Network Administrator in maintaining all existing phones and LAN/WAN networked hardware.  • Ensure backup procedures complete successfully and evaluate the data on a regular basis. Research, recommend, and implement new technology. Lead Field Technician Trawick & Associates - Crystal City, VA April 2001 to November 2002 • Assigned to the United States Patent & Trademark Office (USPTO) Desktop Field Support/ Helpdesk department  • team leader to 25 field technicians.  • support to over 8,000 end users and over 10,000 nodes.  • Troubleshoot various proprietary and commercial off-the-shelf applications either remotely or at user's site.  • Provided daily, weekly, and monthly reports as needed to management and worked with the government task managers to ensure that the highest possible level of customer service and quality of work was achieved, resulting in a 98% customer satisfaction rating and a 97.5% ticket closure rating, which far exceeded the levels required by the Service Level Agreement.  • Provided support to and trained junior technicians and filled in as acting manager when needed.  • Management considered me to be a key player to the team. Network / Systems Administrator Avanco International - Washington, DC July 2000 to April 2001 • Assigned to the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense/ Policy computer installation team.  • responsible for the deployment and configuration of Secret and Unclassified systems  • responsible for maintaining and supporting the systems.  • responsible for maintaining Avanco's 7-server/ 20-node networks at their corporate office in McLean, Virginia.  • Performed weekly backups, managed the user accounts and performed preventive maintenance as needed on all equipment.  • Technologies: Windows NT 4.0 Server/ Workstation, Windows 2000 Server/ Workstation, Novell, Lotus Notes, Outlook, Dell Workstations Education Master of Science in project management University of Maryland University College Bachelor of Science in computer Networking Strayer University