DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer Web and Mobile Application Developer Highlands Ranch, CO I am looking for part time work C2C W9/1099. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DevOps Engineer SlingTV - Englewood, CO February 2016 to February 2017 Developed cloud-init scripts to add AWS linux clients to Active Directory  Developed Packer, Chef, and Terraform scripts to manage large number of AWS instances across multiple environments  Day to day administration of Ubuntu and CentOS Linux clients  Monitored systems using ELK, New Relic, and CA APM  Administrated F5 Networks LTM and GTM for load balanced applications and DNS Web and Mobile Application Developer Woodridge Software - Golden, CO January 2014 to February 2015 Developed mobile Android application to collect and report data from chemical recycling units  ? Developed web application to display and graph data using JQuery and Highcharts  ? Developed web application to display leaderboards and high scores for virtual competition shooting game  ? Developed web application spreadsheet to maintain and catalog data regarding aircraft issues  ? Developed automated AWS configuration and software application deployment system Test Engineer Aircell, LLC. - Broomfield, CO September 2011 to September 2012 Contributed to system level testing as a member of a SCRUM development team  Developed system level test scripts for a smart-phone Android application using Python  Contributed to the development of Android screen automation libraries in Python  ? Contributed to the development of automated test cases and build test framework  ? Utilized Trac for project management, wiki documentation, and story management  Interfaced and tested smart-phone application against custom service hardware and software  Used HP Quality Center to create the test plan, execute tests, and record defects  Used an Ubuntu-based Linux development environment and Eclipse IDE to build the Android OS and contribute to the development of in-house Android applications and services.  Developed administrative web server interface tests using Selenium and Python  Developed Android Java service to collect phone statistics and store in EEPROM  Created and maintained various automation server scripts and tools to assist with build installation Systems Administrator Align Technologies - Santa Clara, CA August 2008 to July 2010 Managed virtual testing environments composed of 200+ RHEL and Windows systems  ? Performed software deployments to environments according to specification  ? Documented deployments and system configuration using MediaWiki  ? Developed automated inventory database solution using Python, Django, and MySQL  ? Developed Weblogic10 automation scripts for deployments using Jython  ? Used RT ticketing system to manage daily workflow  ? Monitored local environments using Nagios, Ninja, Merlin, and Nimsoft  ? Built and deployed custom software packages using RPM and Make  ? Developed custom system monitoring scripts using Perl and Bash  ? Maintained and used SVN repository for group projects  ? Interfaced SQA with development teams for defect resolution Software Engineer Logitech - Fremont, CA June 2006 to June 2008 Developed system level test harness and modules using Python, STAF, and STAX  Developed libraries to interface with MySQL backend  Added functionality to web-based administrative and test result reporting system using CakePHP  Created and maintained packaging scripts using Ant, Make, and RPM  Created and maintained scripts for system provisioning using Kickstart and Unattended  Managed RHEL based automation servers in production, staging, and test environments  Managed 100+ test PC's running WindowsXP32/64 and Vista32/64  Administrated environment networking equipment including Foundry switches and PIX firewall  Used the RT ticketing system to manage daily work-flow, catalog bugs, and track system issues  Monitored environments using Nagios  Developed boot scripts to image test PC operating system from separate disk partition  Maintained SVN repository for test framework development  Used Trac system for documentation, project planning, and source browsing Systems Administrator Logitech - Fremont, CA September 2004 to March 2006 Managed co-located Internet services environment running Solaris 8 and 9  ? Administrated DNS servers, HTTP server clusters, STUN clusters, and data collection systems  ? Administrated proprietary J2EE application server clusters across multiple facilities  ? Managed Cisco 6509 and Foundry BigIron 8000 core switches  ? Managed Cisco PIX 520 and Cisco FWSM firewalls  ? Managed Foundry ServerIron load balancers  ? Participated in 24x7 on-call rotation and maintained system high-availability  ? Created and maintained comprehensive environment documentation in HTML  ? Tracked and resolved issues using Bugzilla  ? Maintained system provisioning system and environment data using Perl and Jumpstart  ? Maintained CVS repository for all environments Systems Administrator Colorado School of Mines - Golden, CO March 2004 to August 2004 Managed servers, faculty desktops, and laboratory machines for the Department of Physics  ? Documented all time and work performed in the Footprints ticketing system  ? Responsible for the backup of faculty, staff, and student data  ? Assisted in the administration of Solaris and Linux machines in other departments  ? Recommended hardware and software solutions for the allocation of departmental funds  ? Provided desktop support to faculty, staff, and students Systems Administrator University of Colorado at Denver - Denver, CO February 2001 to March 2004 Managed computing laboratories for all departments within the College of Engineering  Managed 4 part-time system administrators and 8 part-time lab monitors  Provided desktop support to faculty, staff, and students  Managed laboratory servers consisting of Solaris, Linux, FreeBSD, and Windows  Managed and provisioned 200+ laboratory workstations consisting of Linux, Solaris, and Windows  Managed laboratory LAN consisting of Cisco 3500 switches  Designed and implemented laboratory bridging firewall using EBTables, IPTables and TC  Developed and maintained laboratory website using PHP and MySQL Education Computer Science University of Colorado at Denver - Denver, CO 1997 to 2001 Skills Jenkins, AWS, Linux, Devops Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelemch