Jr. Systems Engineer Jr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Jr. Systems Engineer - Ceannate Corp Schaumburg, IL Jr. Systems Engineer with a strong background in computer networks and systems, effective communication skills, with comprehensive experience. Adept at solving networking, and computer technology systems problems which can be fully utilized to improve operations. Work Experience Jr. Systems Engineer Ceannate Corp - Schaumburg, IL January 2018 to Present • Provide support of Cisco telephony system from setup of extensions, extension mobility, Jabber, and voicemails.  • Engage in maintenance and support of Windows Active Directory, Exchange, DNS, DHCP and WSUS Servers and Cisco switches and routers. Manage network security through Cisco ASA Firewalls, Sophos Antivirus, ESET, Labtech, IronPort Web and Email Filter.  • Provide maintenance and support of Ceannate virtual infrastructure through technologies such as vCenter, ESXi, and Windows Terminal Services. Responsible for Avamar backup storage system and replication software. Experience with the configuration and maintenance of Avamar and Data Domain backup systems.  • Provide support of Ceannate Exchange environment from Exchange 2007 to 2013. Familiar with Windows Powershell. Active in managing MSSQL Server backups, maintenance plans and security on MSSQL servers.  • Lead monthly upgrades and patches to all server computer systems through WSUS and SWPM on a monthly basis.  • Perform upgrades of Windows and Linux operating systems and enterprise applications.  • Provide escalation (Tier 3) support to the desktop group. Cross-trained team members in help desk and desktop support to further broaden their skillset and work on a 24x7 monthly rotating schedule for on call support. Systems Administrator Ceannate Corp - Rolling Meadows, IL August 2013 to December 2017 Maintained and supported of Windows Active directory, Exchange, DNS, DHCP and WSUS Servers and Cisco Switches and Routers. Manage network security through Cisco ASA Firewalls, Sophos Antivirus, ESET, Labtech, IronPort Web and Email Filter.  • Performed installations and upgrades of Windows and Linux operating systems and enterprise applications.  • Provided support for Ceannate predictive dialer system, providing support for over 700 users across 4 remote branches and department divisions and liaised with external clients. Liaison with vendor for the company, responsible for user management, troubleshooting system issues and implementing updates and hardware changes across the entire dialer platform.  • Responsible for designing, building, and maintenance of campaigns, inbound and outbound IVR's. Partnered closely with lines of business and operations management to meet business objectives and ensure consistent operations.  • Engaged in accurate execution of policies and procedures, reporting, and management of predictive dialer operations. Worked with management to assist in developing outbound calling campaign and phone inventory management strategy. Utilized operation reports through Microsoft SSRS 2008, SQL Server 2008, and Excel.  • Trained new hires with processes and policies while working on creating and maintaining documentation for department procedures. Systems Administrator Fidelis SeniorCare - Schaumburg, IL April 2013 to August 2013 Maintained and supported Windows Active Directory, Exchange, internal SharePoint site and WDS Server and Avaya phone system.  • Performed general preventative maintenance tasks on laptops, printers and any other authorized peripheral equipment as well as patch testing and re-imaging of hosts.  • Installed, upgraded, supported and troubleshot Windows 7 and Microsoft Office 2010 and any other authorized desktop applications like EMDS and homegrown secure messaging system.  • Created and maintained company mobile device inventory. Worked with other IT team members and finance department to lower cellular expenses by eliminating lines and devices from the contract that were not in use. Managed to reduce monthly expenses by over $5k per month. PC Technician Pegasus Data Systems - Des Plaines, IL August 2009 to March 2013 Assisted IT Engineers & Systems Administrators with various projects as needed.  • Implemented daily server & report checks for various applications.  • Supported over 200 users by performing application installations, printer installations, desktop maintenance, new user account creations, and scanner installs.  • Reviewed and tested maintenance documents and updated them accordingly.  • Re-imaged and setup user laptops and PC's for new hires and employees that needed replacement desktop hardware.  • Maintained company wide inventory pertaining to software and hardware for yearly audits.  • Performed phone system work to include phone extension swaps, name changes, and ACD group changes through ProComm Plus  • Created, distributed, and troubleshot Cisco VoIP phones through Cisco Unified CM Console and Cisco Unity Connection Education B.S. in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Chicago, IL June 2008 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Firewalls, Networking