Data Systems Administrator/Cyber Network Operator/Field Services NCOIC Data <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Cyber Network Operator/Field Services NCOIC Kailua, HI A creative and innovative IT Technician who is able to solve complex problems with customers, team members, and upper management. Ability and willingness to learn are paramount, which has led to a superior technical aptitude. Detail oriented leader who amplifies motivation within any team. Key Skills:    Leadership Technical prowess Protocol Services  Microsoft Exchange/Server Troubleshooting Customer Service  Initiative Flexibility Analytical Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Systems Administrator/Cyber Network Operator/Field Services NCOIC U.S. Marine Corps - Marine Corps Base, Hawaii, US May 2017 to Present • Troubleshot an international outage regarding the Electronic Key Management System as the Marine Air-Ground Task Force Information Technology Support Center Watch Officer.  • Investigated a logistical error that cut 60% of the company's account deemed waste; saving $50,000.  • Installed operating software images on an average of 300 computer assets monthly, allowing network operations to continue smoothly.  • Supervised a team of five in daily operations in a customer support area, resulting in the fluid productivity of the department. Cyber Network Operator/Basic Communication Marine/Squad Leader Marine Corps Base - 29 Palms, CA November 2016 to May 2017 • Learned technical skills and put them in practice in real-world environments by programming servers, networking several local area networks and wide area networks, and repairing hardware components on several models of laptops, desktops, switches, and servers.  • Acquired the basic knowledge for project management, leading a team of six building a domain controller and a network of 60 devices. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science East Carolina University - Greenville, NC August 2015 to May 2020 Data Systems Technican's Course in Information Technology US Marine Corps - 29 Palms, CA November 2016 to May 2017 Skills Cisco (3 years), Switch (3 years), System Administrator (1 year), Leadership Training (3 years), Hardware Repair/Replacement (2 years), Software Installation (2 years), Customer Service (2 years), Active Directory, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Helpdesk Support, Tech Support Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Lance Corporal May 2016 to April 2019