Systems Analyst III <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst III Systems Analyst III - COLSA CORPORATION Athens, AL Systems Analyst III with 20 + years technical support experience with administration of Windows Operating Systems on servers and workstations working directly with end users. Looking to leverage my knowledge and experience into a role of supporting your company’s mission. Work Experience Systems Analyst III COLSA CORPORATION - Huntsville, AL July 2008 to Present Configures and maintains Windows systems according to DISA STIGS and Security policies. Remediates system vulnerabilities identified by SCAP Tool and vulnerability scans.    Implements tasks required by approved Engineering Change Requests (ECRs). Updates and creates new group policies based on the ARC Cyber Security Group’s input in order to address and mitigate detected vulnerabilities on the UMSN. Administers Active Directory which includes account management.    Backup administrator using the Veeam Backup & Replication solution software used for performing data protection and disaster recovery tasks.     Worked as project leader to get the Unclassified Mission Support Network systems upgraded to the latest Windows operating system as needed. Ensures systems conform to all audit, security and Cyber Security requirements.     Presently the primary systems analyst for the 155 Windows 10 workstations on the UMSN. Strong working knowledge of Windows 10 Enterprise and Server 2016 operating systems. Set up virtual Windows Server 2016 Domain Controllers. Performs problem analysis to resolve system or application issues sometimes using Remote Desktop. Also provides complex diagnosis of problems along with solutions in his area of responsibilities. Coordinates implementation of fixes and enhancements. Also provides backup for other analysts as required. Responds to support requests from end users using the Manage Engine ticket system.    Also currently serving as the software manager for the Colsa Advanced Research Center. System Administrator COMCAST - Huntsville, AL April 2007 to July 2008 Supported all Windows based workstations and servers located in the Huntsville, Alabama, Florence, Alabama and Tupelo, Mississippi offices. Visited the Florence, Alabama and Tupelo, Mississippi offices on an as needed basis and did the daily computer maintenance remotely through the network from Huntsville. Also used the Remedy Ticket System to track all computer work. Also set up and maintained email accounts through an offsite Exchange Server and maintained the Backups using Symantec's Backup Exec software, administered Active Directory, and provided users with support for all LAN-based applications. System Administrator SCHNADIG CORPORATION - Belmont, MS July 1997 to April 2007 • Maintained a network that consisted of three IBM servers and 70 Windows workstations. These servers provided print and file services, Exchange email services and Active Directory for user and computer account services.      • Set up and maintained thin clients with barcode scanners in the production area along with wireless access points. Also performed all the local programming changes that had to be done on the Nortel Northstar digital telephone system which included making changes to extensions and setting up Voice Mail boxes.   Education Introduction to Computers and Electronic Data Processing Volunteer State Community College - Gallatin, TN Skills SECURITY, NESSUS, MICROSOFT ACCESS, REPLICATION, ACTIVE DIRECTORY Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ December 2001 to May 2022 CompTIA Network+ April 2002 to May 2022 CompTIA Security+ May 2013 to May 2022 MCTS Certified Windows 7 Present Microsoft MCP Windows 10 Present Microsoft MCSA Windows 10 Present Microsoft Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lhfpdqamrrztfa9t Email — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qu0oimt3c19nbyzk Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SOFTWARE APPLICATIONS:    Veeam Backup & Replication solution software, VMWare, Symantec's Backup Exec, ViconNet Video Management System, Nessus Security Center, Network Systems Integration & Test Environment (NSITE), Remedy Ticket Tracking, Ready Desk, and Manage Engine, Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, Dameware Remote Control, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Access, Microsoft Outlook.    SECURITY CLEARANCE: Secret