Linux System Admin/DevOps Engineer Linux <span class="hl">System</span> Admin/DevOps Engineer Linux System Admin/DevOps Engineer - Solar Turbines San Diego, CA • Overall 6 years of experience in Linux and Various DevOps based implementation projects and enhance work flow of CI/CD and CD process for an organization.  • Experience in working on source control tools like SVN, and GIT.  • Extensively involved in DevOps, Configuration Management, Cloud Infrastructure.  • Monitoring, Automation it includes Amazon Web Services (AWS), Maven, Jenkins, Chef, GitHub, Tomcat, Linux etc.  • Hands on experience with an in-depth level of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of  • AWS cloud-specific and Open Stack technologies. Services like EC2, S3, Route 53, Cloud Formation, Elastic  Bean Stalk, Load balancer etc.  • Develop automation and processes to enable teams to deploy, manage, configure, scale and monitor their applications in data centers and in AWS.  • Experience with CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) methodologies using Jenkins/ Hudson.  • Experience with Atlassian products like JIRA and Confluence.  • Experience with Deployment Tools like Chef, Ansible and Puppet.  • Solid understanding of current web and internet technologies like Apache, Tomcat, Elasticsearch.  • Experience with Windows/Microsoft, Linux/Unix.  • Prepare and implement release plan through release planning meetings and address all release related issues as first point of escalation and involved in automation for CI/CD process to mitigate issues.  • Automated processes with custom built Python & Shell scripts.  • Exposure to SDLC and experience with building deployment solutions for Scrum.  • Hands on experience in working with Web logic, Apache Tomcat application servers.  • Experience in the upgrade of Mongo dB.  • Actively involved in Incident Management, Change Management and Problem Management. Coordination and communication with various teams like Middle web services, Oracle DBA's, Batch Monitoring etc.  • Thorough understanding of networking TCP/IP, DNS, FTP, SSH, SCP and web coverage services (WCS). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux System Admin/DevOps Engineer Solar Turbines - San Diego, CA January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:    • Establish, maintain and manage users Unix accounts. Install, modify and maintain systems and utility software on server computer systems. Provide server support related to other software.  • Support for Hardware failures by troubleshooting/diagnosing updating Bios.  • Creating and managing NIS mapping from master server using Cronjob for Automap's.  • Created Method of Procedure MOP' for different processes and Documented results and findings in Atlassian Confluence tool called as Chalk  • Migrated and managed users home directory on NFS.  • Configuration of Kerberos authentication.  • Using Ansible to perform Tests such as Component reboot, checking uptime  • Implemented openssh and openssl for security compliance.  • Involved in installation, configuration and administration of Samba Server, DHCP server in UNIX, Linux environment.  • Installation of software on multiple platforms using Ansible.  • Monitor performance and resource utilization of key systems and provide ongoing trend analysis for forecasting future resource requirements.  • Installation, Configuration & Upgrade of Linux5/6/7.  • Installation of Patches and Packages.  • Wrote playbooks for post build scripts, manager services, install packages, SSSD and Realm etc.  • Configuring disk space management on RHEL, CENTOS  • Associated with DBAs for installation of Oracle database on Linux servers & for tuning, backup and restore  • Developed new system and application implementation plans, custom scripts and testing procedures to ensure operational reliability.  • Develop CI/CD system with Jenkins on Google's Kubernetes container environment, utilizing Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build, test and deploy.  • Hardware Installation e.g. server boards, processors, fans, HFI cards, EDR cards, mezzanine cards.  • Worked on Service Now for ticketing and tracking Inventory.  • Complete periodic checks of production and development systems, CPU utilization, memory profiles, disk utilization, network connectivity, system log files, etc. Linux System Admin/DevOps Engineer Thales Group - Irvine, CA October 2016 to December 2018 Responsibilities:    • Administered, maintained and supported Linux (Redhat & Ubuntu).  • Automating Deployment using configuration Management tool like puppet to provision Amazon AWS Instances to enable continuous Deployments.  • Created and updated Puppet manifests and modules, files, and packages.  • Manage and maintain QA, Staging and Production cloud-based environment - AWS.  • Setting up data in AWS using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Maintain, manage and modify existing and new software applications and systems.  • Migrating In house MongoDB into MongoDB Atlas  • Developed shell scripts for automation of the build and release process.  • Resolve system issues and inconsistencies in coordination with quality assurance and engineering teams  • Build and configured Jenkins slaves for parallel job execution. Installed and configured Jenkins for continuous integration and performed continuous deployments.  • Configure AWS VPC with public and private subnets.  • Assigned Roles and Policies to Users, Security Groups by using identity and Access Management (IAM)  • Provide technical support in the field of Authentication, Authorization, RBAC (Role based Access control) and Directory services using Identity, Access management in LDAP for Enterprise cloud (AWS).  • Develop Puppet to manage Cloud Infrastructure configuration across different environments like Dev, Test, QA, UAT, Production Linux servers.  • Involved in planning and migrating of production databases with zero downtime and data loss.  • Implementing AWS solutions using S3, RDS, EBS, VPC, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, Optimized volumes and EC2 instances.  • Orchestration of build and release automation process from lower environments and trying to mitigate the manual interventions by controlling all builds through CI/CD process, hence given a road map for stage by stage automation for all development operations activities to accelerate and smoothen the release workflow.  • Configure InnoDB_print_aII_deadIocks and event scheduler variables to ON status for viewing all the past deadlocks and execute tasks as a scheduled event has insight of auto-sharding, in-memory Highly Available environment.  • Strong Knowledge on Jira/Confluence Ticketing system  • Plan and execute back-up strategies for enterprise level database both SQL and NoSQL databases.  • Monitoring and resolving environmental issues at multiple layers of deployment from hardware, operating environment, network and application.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services specifically on AWS EC2.  • Applied appropriate support packages/patches to maintain system integrity.  • Developed Perl and shell scripts for automation of the build and release process.  • Installed, configured Web Sphere Application Server.  • Involved in administrating Linux Servers by installing/Configuring new patches and upgrades.  • Creation and scheduling of Cron Jobs such as for Backup, System Monitoring and removal of unnecessary files.  • Monitoring system resources, logs, disk usage, scheduling backups and restore.  • Worked on installation and configuration of the monitoring tool Check_mk.  • Worked on Apache and Firewalls in both development and production & Utilized SQL database systems. DevOps/Build and Release Engineer Whole Foods Market - Austin, TX February 2016 to October 2016 Responsibilities:    • Developed and implemented Software Release Management strategies for various applications according to the agile process.  • Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Subversion (SVN).  • Integrated various provisioning and monitoring modules into a single platform using Jenkins/Hudson CI tools.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Installed/Configured/Managed Jenkins CI Automation.  • Worked as Release Engineer for a team that involved different development teams and multiple simultaneous software releases.  • Developed Perl and shell scripts for automation of the build and release process.  • Involved in all projects that move to production and work closely with the Data Center, Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes  • Created the Release process of the artifacts.  • Responsible for the development and maintenance of processes and associated scripts/tools for automated build, testing and deployment of the products to various developments.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins and taking the ownership of automation.  • Worked with DBA and Application team to build the environment.  • Supported Oracle DBA in the implementation of Oracle 9i RAC  • Built and Deployed Java/J2EE to a web application server in an Agile continuous integration environment and automated the whole process.  • Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and mitigate potential risks associated with the releases.  • Perform periodic system audits on all environments to ensure that only controlled versions of software reside all environments.  • Used Jira for ticket tracking, change management and Agile/SCRUM tool. Linux Systems Administrator Vodafone South Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:    • Installation, Maintenance, Administration and troubleshooting of Linux.  • Performed automated installations of Operating System using Jumpstart and kickstart for Linux.  • As a Linux administrator primary responsibility includes building of new servers which includes rack mounting, installation of OS, configuring of various OS-native and third-party tools, securing of OS, installing, configuring &job scheduling using cron.  • Performed Linux OS management tasks which include installing packages using rpm and zypper, creating soft and hard links, Yast for installing and configuration on Suse operating systems  • Extensively worked on hard disk mirroring and stripe with parity using RAID controllers.  • User administration using CA Control Minder tool for Linux user accounts.  • Setup of full networking services and protocols including NIS/NFS, DNS, SSH, DHCP, TCP/IP applications  • Involved in Server sizing and identifying, recommending optimal server hardware based on User requirements.  • Installation and configuration of Veritas Volume Manager, LVM, Veritas File System and Veritas Cluster Server.  • Installed the Operating System on Solaris and Linux servers and blades over the network.  • Built servers according to standards specified as per individual applications.  • Built virtualized Linux servers on ESX and blade servers to host multiple applications on same chassis across different server hosts.  • Provide 24 X 7 on-call UNIX and Linux support on a rotating schedule basis.  • Created Filesystems from local storage as well as NFS partitions for application portability.  • Worked with DBA team for database performance issues, network related issues on Linux Servers.  • Applied patches and packages on Linux servers using rpm RedHat Package Manager and yum tools.  • Ensured automatic startup of different services by using chkconfig.  • Implemented virtual, integrated, management and proxy IPs on the machines to serve different purposes.  • Installed and configured Apache, products on the Linux servers.  • Performed troubleshooting on filesystem failure, network failure and disk failures etc.,  • Providing day-to-day user administration like adding/deleting users and managing user's queries. Shell programming for routine administration tasks.  • Configured various services, devices as well as applications of UNIX servers and worked with application team to customize the environment.  • Updated & Running the various source code for migration & updating follow-up the release management. Education master's in electrical engineering in electrical engineering Northwestern Polytechnic University 2016 Skills APACHE, LINUX, UNIX, C++, Git Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, LINUX (Ubuntu and RHEL), Mac.  Build/CI Tools Jenkins  Bug Tracking Tools JIRA, Atlassian Tools  CM Tools/Virtualization Puppet, Ansible  Version Control Tools GIT, Svn  Languages/Utilities C, C++, HTML, Java, J2EE, Shell Script, Python, Ruby  Databases SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle DBA, Mongo dB, MariaDB Column store  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, Web sphere  Monitoring and Profiling Tools Nagios, Check_mk, Elasticsearch  Cloud Technologies Aws, Openstack  Repositories Artifactory, Nexus  Networking Protocols/Services LDAP, TCP/IP, L2, L3, UDP, HTTP, DHCP, IPv4, and IPv6.