Windows Network Administrator Windows Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Windows Network Administrator - Careington Inc Lewisville, TX Highly skilled and motivated Senior Systems Administrator with 20+ years' experience including department management. In addition to this skill set, there is solid experience managing, designing, budgeting and successfully completing projects of all sizes. These complex projects have achieved significant improvements and ROI upon their conclusion. Proficient, as well, in developing hardware, software, servers and network solutions to ensure optimum system performance and safety. Extensive history of providing expert technical advice, guidance, and recommendations to management on critical IT infrastructure and issues in terms of cost effectiveness, data retention, physical relocation of systems and end user access. Work Experience Windows Network Administrator Careington Inc - Frisco, TX June 2019 to Present Working as part of a team supporting the network infrastructure for Careington's multiple Frisco and DFW locations housing headquarters and supporting teams. Providing assistance with planned network infrastructure improvements and expansion. Also supporting and implementing SCCM projects as needed.    Accomplishments  ? Performed initial configuration for network devices upon deployment.  ? Worked on building custom SCCM reports using Microsoft Report Builder.  ? Created several Powershell scripts for use in SCCM packages. Use Powershell on a daily basis.  ? Use SCCM to prepare custom reports on clients in preporation for in place Windows 7 to 10 upgrades. Windows Systems Administrator Peterbilt Motor Company - Denton, TX November 2018 to June 2019 Working as part of a team supporting the server infrastructure in Denton for Peterbilt's production facility and headquarters. Monitoring an in-house ticketing system for service, incident and change requests. This includes a 5 host, 90+ virtualized servers, mostly a mix of Windows 2008, 2012 and 2016 servers with a few Linux based appliance VM's in a Vmware 6 environment. Work daily with software engineers to roll out test, cert and production code to SQL and IIS. Also assist the desktop support group as needed.    Accomplishments  ? Performed root cause analysis on an unintended network shutdown event that occurred before I started. I was able to determine the real cause for the event and recommend courses of action until updated versions of the software is available from APC.  ? Assist department manager with planning for upgrading to vSphere 6.5 and VMFS 6.  ? Created several Powershell scripts to simplify some general housekeeping requests that are part of the daily tickets received. Use Powershell on a daily basis.  ? Use SCCM to perform OSD and in place Windows 7 to 10 upgrades.  ? Use in house ticketing system (IR - Incident Request, CR - Change Request, SR - Service Request) with weighted responses values to address user needs.  ? Assist with maintaining IT equipment (laptops, PC's, peripherals) in the plant as necessary. NorthTexas Food Bank - Dallas, TX August 2018 to August 2018 11/2018  Non-profit food distribution charity    Networking Design  Assisted with repairing an improper planned network move which rendered the network as non-functional. This included reconfiguring aggregated switch ports, incorrectly configured SAN storage, plus various AD and SQL issues. Made recommendations on revamping their branch office configuration to enhance security and performance. Also made firm recommendations on how to configure their power distribution strategy regarding their server room. IT Manager / Systems Administrator Family care - Carrollton, TX December 2017 to April 2018 Carrollton TX - 12/2017 - 4/2018  Helped parents with health issues    Assisted my mother with taking care of my father, who is suffering from late stage Alzheimer's, dementia and heart conditions. We were able to get him placed in March in a facility for Alzheimer's.    Cathedral Plumbing of Texas, LLC Carrollton, TX - 10/2016 - 12/2017  A commercial and residential plumbing company in growth mode.    IT Manager / Systems Administrator  I maintained the existing network, while designing, budgeting, procuring and building an IT infrastructure that could quickly expand as the company expanded to other markets. Another core objective was to help design and implement a custom-built application suite to replace the current paper intensive method of business. This was to include mobile device apps, internal web-based applications and the corresponding database and server back ends.    Accomplishments  ? Designed a network to grow as the business required. It was built on a DELL platform of PowerEdges, Compellent and DELL switches. Used Vmware vSphere 6 for the servers, with MS Windows Server 2016 as the networking software. It had VMs built with MSSQL 2016, Exchange 2016, IIS 10, along with other associated software servers needed.  ? A newly purchased 2 story office building was being renovated, I was responsible for getting internet connectivity, security camera systems, door systems, badge systems, alarms, etc. for it. This required requesting bids, comparing them, seeking bid modifications, presenting them to the owner with my choices. Afterwards, it required scheduling and coordinating with the GC and monitoring progress. Design changes routinely necessitated change orders and more coordination with the GC. An example was after the server room was setup, there was a late in the process interior design change that required it to be moved and downsized. Using Visio, I was able to accommodate the move to a smaller space and still have everything fit and have good air flow and work space.  ? Collaborated with the owner and users with documentation of core business practices. This included methodology of the various plumbing stages from rough to QC, where the bid request came from, who needs what, where the data was stored, how it was accessed, when it was received, etc This was in preparation for seeking a developer to assist in designing a suite of apps and software to automate and reduce paperwork across the company.  ? Working with the owner and his legal representative, we worked with multiple software development companies to find one to develop a custom suite of applications for the home building subcontractors and builders. After the vetting process, worked with the selected developer, who was using SCRUM methodology, to facilitate the process. The various parts of the suite were to be the management portion, field app, subcontractor app, builder app (for the D.R. Horton's, Lennar's and other builders) which would all be linked together with various pieces of information made available to whom needed it.  ? As part of the building renovation, I needed to design the flow and look of the cubicle regarding cabling, sound and security camera placement. Additionally, there was specific monitor needs for different departments. Researched and found a desktop tri-mount for DELL 27" 4K monitors and found 4K TV's for use by the AutoCAD department. This didn't include placement of the UPSs, surge protectors and various odds and ends peripherals needed.  ? Daily responsibilities included assisting users with whatever issues they had, albeit hardware, software, connectivity, etc  ? Server and network administration using GUI and Powershell as necessary to manage AD, SQL, Exchange, DFS, etc  ? Firewall administration, including periodic checks of logs and ACL usage. Modify ACLs as needed for projects or necessary updates.  ? Used Enterprise Endpoint security software to monitor for virus and keep client's software updated. IT Manager / Systems Administrator Capform Inc - Carrollton, TX April 2006 to October 2016 Carrollton, TX - 4/2006 - 10/2016  A commercial concrete subcontractor with offices and jobs located in multiple states.    IT Manager / Systems Administrator  Instrumental in modernizing the IT infrastructure. Built up the network from a single server to a hybrid mix of VM and physical servers with a High Availability solution with a remote disaster recovery location. The IT infrastructure also included various types of company supplied mobile devices, laptops, workstations and desktops. Established and implemented many of the company IT policies and procedures. I administered all the company's IT infrastructure in a hands-on capacity. Responsible for setting up or getting setup, remote job sites and branch office locations as needed. Kept a user base of over 300+, mostly remote users, able to work with a high percentage of up time.    Accomplishments  ? Researched, designed and maintained a HA solution for the accounting department servers. This helped them achieve 99+% up time.  ? Recruited and built IT department as the company needs increased. This included a Network Administrator, software contractors as needed, service companies in different states to assist branch office locations as needed.  ? Researched and implemented a companywide email system migrating away from Yahoo mail. This was accomplished by migrating to an MS Exchange based system allowing for more control of emails and attachments.  ? Custom built servers to uniquely match the requirements needed for servers' roles. These were typically built in pairs with one being a production system and the other a backup.  ? Routinely updated servers both OS and applications with in-place upgrades when possible and P2P when hardware requirements required it.  ? Consistently monitored and worked with Active Directory, managing GPOs, all user and group actions, security permissions, etc  ? Researched, purchased and implemented several generations of SAN storage. This was prior to the move to an integrated VM solution based on DELL. It was built on a DELL platform of PowerEdges, Compellent and DELL switches. Used MS Hyper-V for the servers, with MS Windows 2012R2 as the networking software. It had VMs built with MSSQL 2008R2-2016, Exchange 2010, IIS, along with other associated software servers needed.  ? Worked with a software developer on retinal identification software specialized for construction sites. This included field testing cameras, various versions of custom software, server-side customization. This project took a few years due to needing to find the right hardware, technology improvements with cellular connectivity, resistance from some board members, turn over in the initial vendor. The final stage in the plan is for the payroll to be paid from their scans/clock ins. This will save significant time on the back end in the payroll department having to enter time sheets manually. It will also be linked to the badge system so that when they scan to receive their payroll checks their photo will display.  ? Worked with CFO in vetting and choosing a new accounting software package from the hardware prospective and back end database usability. This required migrating data from a flat file system to MS SQL databases to keep the payroll data integrity as mandated by federal law.  ? Implemented a document management system to help facilitate AR/AP work flow. This also included migration of data when they switched from a MySQL back end to a MSSQL back end.  ? Routinely responsible for writing queries, as SQL administrator and DBA, for the accounting and safety departments based on information requests from Federal and State agencies as required. This also meant ensuring that the data was secure.  ? Directed the IT team in the designing, then budgeting and purchasing DELL PowerEdge servers, Compellent SANs and network switches for use in migrating to a virtual server infrastructure. This required configuring the SAN for use with the servers, the servers to use the SAN. We purchased all the equipment with dual power supplies, management boards, etc. to ensure we had no single point of failure. The servers had a 10GB back bone to the SAN and each other.  ? Spearheaded the design of a fireproof vault that was built on site to be the IT disaster recovery location.  ? Installed and configured new DELL equipment in the disaster recovery vault. This fulfilled a board mandate that a copy of all company data be kept local.  ? Worked with my staff in migrating the data center located physical servers to Hyper-V based VMs. This enabled the company to reduce its physical server count, thus saving money on replacement servers and associated software licenses. This was done using a variety of P2V methods depending on server hardware.  ? Moved the company from a DSL based DIA to a fiber based 250 Mbps direct link to our data center and 100 Mbps DIA. This was critical as more and more plans and such were being sent to the company electronically. We had our local offices connected to each other with 100Mbps fiber routed through the main office. Worked with the provider's technical staff on configuring the Cisco routers to best accomplish our stated needs.  ? Researched, budgeted, purchased and implemented a robust remote connectivity solution to ensure near 100% availability. The need to allow remote users to access the DMS, AutoCAD and various other licensed products compelled the need to find a reliable method that was reasonably priced. The initial setup was Terminal Server. While this was successful for the most part, there were some software that was not TS aware and the user experience suffered for it. We then deployed Citrix VDI in a Box. Another solution used was SSL-VPN which was successful for a subset of the remote users based on their specific needs.  ? Researched, designed and setup remote job site locations as needed. This meant finding out available internet options, soliciting bids for needed office equipment and ensuring prompt installation and setup as soon as the job trailer was available. Depending on the length of job, the site might be setup as a branch office with VPN access to our network or if too small, the users used remote connectivity methods to connect.  ? Implemented a badge system with enterprise software that allowed us to take pictures of the laborers and create badges for job access. Also designed the badges themselves to allow for a quick identification of what training the laborer had completed. This allowed company safety inspectors to visually see that laborers were working tasks they were trained on.  ? Routinely searched the badge database for pictures of the employees when the CFO needed to investigate fraudulent paycheck cashing issues. Used a stored procedure I wrote to call up the images.  ? Helped the Estimating department with its move away from physical digitizing boards to on screen take offs. I was able to recoup some of the money spent on the digitizing boards by selling them back to the supplier.  ? Administered the corporate firewall which entailed periodically reviewing the policies. These were changed on a regular basis as new equipment, software and services were introduced to the network. The policies needed to be monitored to ensure that obsolete policies could be removed and ones that were only used sporadically were either enabled or disabled as needed. This also included new jobs needing BOVPN tunnels and gateways setup.  ? Assisted the shareholders of the company with a restaurant they opened. Responsible for getting the building setup for wireless, multiple TVs and sound throughout the location. This meant researching, bidding, overseeing and ultimately training the staff on how to use the video and audio equipment. Also implemented the Aloha POS system. This required allowing some of the Capform HR and PR staff to have access to the data as they needed.  ? Work as needed with the GC technical staff when there is specific language in the contract with regards to IT needs for specific projects. Education BA in Communications in Communications University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX AA in General Studies in General Studies Cedar Valley College Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Firewalls, Iis, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/stephen-raines-425758112 Certifications/Licenses MCSE June 2018 to Present