Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator Fairfield, CA • Talented Information Technology Senior Systems Administrator with hands-on experience of administrating, configuring, and supporting data center operations. Highly effective at problem-solving and decision making with 15+ years of progressive IT experience.    • Experienced in implementation and supporting cutting edge virtualization technologies, as well as the implementation of  Hyperconverged Infrastructure. Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Syar Industries - Napa, CA December 2018 to July 2019 Responsibilities & Notable Achievements  • Responsible for all levels of support for all Windows (2008r2-2016) servers. Managed and supported Active Directory, WSUS, DNS, WINS, GPO and DHCP services at local and remote sites.  • Implemented and maintained Axcient BRC and Fusion Cloud backup solutions with VMware Cloud replication Solutions for Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Planning.  • Responsible for the support of the Nutanix cluster environment running VMware vSphere 6.5.  • Utilized Prism Admin Console for troubleshooting, updating, hardware & software, and performance tuning.  • Responsible for configuring and maintaining the VMware vCenter, created Datacenter Environments, VMware clusters, adding ESXi hosts into the clusters, and implemented HA and DRS, vMotion.  • Responsible for managing all aspects of the vSphere environments, troubleshooting, updating vSphere cluster, creating, installing, configuring and maintaining the Virtual Machines and resolving configuration related VMware issues.  • Performed physical to virtual (P2V) server migrations utilizing VMware Converter.  • Performed a Windows 7 to Windows 10 upgrade to VMware Horizon 7 VDI environment.  • Performed upgrades to physical and virtual machines to the new environment.  • Supported a VMware Horizon 7 VDI environment.  • Managed VDI users and machines, and catalogs through VMware Horizon Admin console. Systems Administrator Cogent Solutions & Supplies /Oakland Packaging & Supply - Richmond, CA December 2013 to December 2018 Responsibilities & Notable Achievements  • Responsible for all levels of support for all Windows (2008r2-2016) servers. Managed and supported Active Directory, WSUS, DNS, WINS, GPO and DHCP services at local and remote sites.  • Responsible for implementation, maintenance, and support of Nutanix cluster running VMware VSphere 6.5.  • Utilized Prism Admin Console for troubleshooting, updating, hardware & software, and performance tuning.  • Migrated a VMware 6.x cluster running on Cisco UCS server hardware with NetApp FAS storage to a Nutanix Cluster Environment.  • Implemented and supported Office 365 emailed migration from Exchange 2007 server to a cloud-based Office 365.  • Migrated all user mailboxes and groups to Office 365 with SkyKick migration tools and AD Sync for user mailbox accounts.  • Upgraded VMware vSphere environment from 5.5 to 6.5. Upgraded all ESXi hosts and vCenter Server.  • Installing, upgraded the vCenter server from physical to Virtual appliance, created new Datacenter Environment in new VMware clusters, added ESXi hosts, and implemented HA, DRS, and vMotion.  • Performed physical to virtual (P2V) migrations for physical servers utilizing VMware Converter.  • Supported and managed Citrix XenDesktop 7.X VDI environment. Performed all Citrix environment upgrades and patch management, configure XenApp Application Server, XenDesktop Controllers, and Profile Management server.  • Managed MCS Environment and performed Golden Image for all departments, performed monthly updated, published applications.  • Implemented, supported and upgraded Citrix XenDesktop 7.1 to 7.6 virtual desktop.  • Supported XenApp 6.5 environment for all local and remote users.  • Setup a new office that consisted of configuring all network and server infrastructure.  • Configured supported SonicWALL site to site VPN, setup and deployed.  • Setup and configure Unitrends Backup and Recover appliance. Setup offsite replication for cloud backup and Disaster Recovery.  • Used Foglight monitor tools for performance monitoring, and planning and optimizing the VMware environment.  • Supported AS400 ERP environment (Infor Aplus ERP system) for users.  • Also supported AS400 integrated applications such as Quadrant FastFax, Mimix, and Corvu that enabled advanced functionality for inventory management, purchasing, accounting, and ordering system.  • Supported a Barracuda NG firewall. Configured firewall rules and policies, and filters.  • Maintenance and support of Cisco Catalyst 3750 switches and Cisco Wireless Controllers for Access Points. Systems Engineer Southland Industries - Union City, CA August 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities & Notable Achievements  • Setup VMware vSphere environments for remote locations.  • Configured, maintained, deployed and support of Windows 2008 R2 Domain Controllers and sever environment including services of Active Directory, DNS, WINS, and DHCP at remote sites.  • Provide desktop support and technical support for the remote and local site. Senior Systems Administrator Risk Management Solutions, Inc - Newark, CA May 2007 to June 2013 Responsibilities & Notable Achievements  • Successfully managed multiple Data Center moves of 700+ servers, including remote sites that consisted of gathering project requirements, coordinating server moves, managing resources, and downtime schedules.  • Implemented and designed a Symantec NetBackup solution and deployed it locally and across global sites in London, India, New Jersey, and remote data center.  • Setup and configured hardware, policies, storage devices, and encryption.  • Configured, maintained, deployed and support of Windows servers environment including Active Directory, DNS, WINS, GPO's and DHCP services at local and remote sites as well as providing support for users.  • Worked cross-functionally on projects with internal business units to determine requirements and resources to support internal software development projects and to determine the best solution. Desktop Administrator ARM Inc - Sunnyvale, CA January 2001 to January 2007 Responsibilities & Notable Achievements  • Provide desktop support and technical support.  • Managed Active Directory, DNS, WINS, and DHCP services; created user accounts, security groups, email accounts, and distribution lists.  • Administered and supported a Windows 2003 servers, Exchange 2003, Blackberry Enterprise Server, and Lotus Notes server environment.  • Managed VERITAS Backup Exec environment with tape libraries which also included the off-site storage rotation.  • Implemented, configured, and maintained a Symantec Antivirus server environment.  • Created and managed user accounts and file permissions in a Windows 2003, Lotus Notes and Solaris environment.  • Managed and created software packages for Computer Associates Software Delivery server.  • Responsible for the upgrading, configuration, and deployment of all production servers utilizing ILO and Drac for remote access.  • Responsible for the procurement of IT equipment including purchasing, configuration, inventory, and RMAs. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Management University of Phoenix San January 2009 Associate of Science in Computer Science Masters Institute of Technology - San Jose, CA January 1999 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ray-bhele-772b628