Systems and Process Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> and Process <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems and Process Administrator US Work Experience Systems and Process Administrator Cocciolino (Pty) Ltd 2017 to 2018 Responsibilities:  • Administrator of student profiles  ? Update student reports daily  ? Keep track of learner progress  ? Follow up with learners regarding outstanding assignments and exams  • Student liaison  ? Student call centre support  ? Assist students having difficulties with assignments and learning material, particularly Numerical Literacy and Financial statements and tax modules.  ? Supply email/telephonic support/tutorials on specific learning areas  ? I also do private lessons for students who need support with the Numerical Literacy and Financial statements and tax modules. I have also created some of my own learning resources to assist the learners with their understanding of the material.  • Learning management system  ? Created online learning pathways for the RE5 module and the KI module.  This requires knowing how to use the LMS system in order to upload all of the learning material for the required modules. As well as linking the material so that students can access study guides and tests online.  • TEFL (Teaching English as a Foreign Language) co-ordinator  ? Advertising and recruiting of TEFL learners  ? Update TEFL learner progress reports  ? Student liaison and support with course related queries, offering them guidance and assistance with the learning portal where necessary.  ? Intermediary between student and assessor.  ? Liaise with outside companies who offer overseas placement to the qualified TEFL learner  • General admin duties  ? Filing  ? Database administrator  • Co-founder of EXPEDE's afternoon homework centre for school going children.  ? Head tutor  • Advertising and Marketing  ? EXPEDE's Facebook page administrator  ? Flyer/Leaflet designer  • Proof-reader  ? Check all student correspondence from their assessor- check for any errors  ? Proof-read email correspondence with outside parties  • Ordering of office stationary and consumables Private tutor 2015 to 2018 R12 000pm  • Multiple private clients ranging from grades 0-12  • Subjects offered:  ? All subjects from grade1 to grade 9  ? Grade 10-12 English, History, Biology, Afrikaans, Business studies, Geography.  • Excellent track record  ? Marked noticeable improvements from the learners I have taught  • Competent in creating study material and personalised worksheets for each student  • Invoice and control monthly and weekly payments from students Education research University of the Witwatersrand January 2016 to March 2017 BA in Psychology University of the Witwatersrand January 2015 to December 2016 Matric Bachelors degree in Distinctions Grace Trinity School for Girls 2013 to 2014 Waterstone College 2010 to 2012