Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator Mountain View, CA A position in information technology for an enterprise-oriented company, which operates primarily in a Cloud, Active Directory, Vmware, storage and possibly an Exchange environment. Desiring the ability to utilize knowledge relative to certifications obtained (listed below) along with over 2 decades of experience in projects involving detailed back office engineering, software rollouts, storage, OS/application upgrades, network security/policies, and overall IT infrastructure engineering, management and administration. Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Futurewei - Santa Clara, CA April 2019 to August 2019 Main responsibilities were Windows and Linux server troubleshooting and administration over Cloud and Vmware infrastructure. Deploying, customizing and maintaining Windows and Linux VMs on both physical and Vmware ESXi setups. Duties include support and maintenance of Windows 2008R2/2012R2/2016/2019 both virtual and physical. Coordination with development and engineering teams to plan for application installs/upgrades and security patching. Monitor, isolate and troubleshoot logged events. Provide third level support to junior and mid-level systems administrators.    Projects include:  - Troubleshooting various application issues with Windows and Linux server VMs on various hardware platforms.  - Modify custom settings for individual VMs.  - Install and customize new applications such as Cyberark, Password Manager Pro and Forescout on multiple servers.  - Server and network systems monitoring using third party applications.  - Troubleshooting connectivity issues with and between VMs and bastion (jump hosts).  - Windows 2008R2 through Windows 2019 and various forms of Linux administration/troubleshooting.  - Assist in managing granular access to servers and network devices via Password Manager Pro and Cyberark. Senior Systems Administrator IBM - San Jose, CA September 2018 to March 2019 Main responsibilities were Windows and Linux server troubleshooting and administration over Cloud infrastructure. Deploying, customizing and maintaining Windows and Linux VMs on ICP cloud. Duties include support and maintenance of Windows 2008R2/2012R2/2016 both virtual and physical. Coordination with engineering teams to plan for application upgrades and security patching. Monitor, isolate and troubleshoot logged events. Provide third level support to junior and mid-level systems administrators.    Projects include:  - Troubleshooting issues with Windows and Linux server VMs on various hardware platforms.  - Modify custom settings for individual VMs  - Server and network systems monitoring using third party applications  - Troubleshooting connectivity issues with and between VMs and bastion (jump hosts)  - Windows 2003 through Windows 2016 and RedHat 7.5 administration/troubleshooting Senior Systems Administrator Oracle - Redwood City, CA August 2017 to August 2018 Main responsibilities were Windows application server patching, troubleshooting and administration. Deploying, customizing and maintaining Windows VMs on Vmware ESXi v5.5/6.0. Duties included minor script creation and modification using Powershell. Oversee upgrades, backups and maintenance of Windows 2003/2008/2012R2/2016 both virtual and physical (including blades). Coordination with engineering teams to plan for application upgrades and security patching. Monitor, isolate and troubleshoot logged events. Provide third level support to junior and mid-level systems administrators.    Projects include:  - Troubleshooting issues with Windows server VMs on ESXi 5.5/6.0  - Modify custom settings for individual VMs  - Server and network systems monitoring using third party applications  - Troubleshooting connectivity issues with and between VMs  - Windows security patching using WSUS for Windows 2012  - Windows 2003 through Windows 2016 administration Senior Systems Engineer Intuit - Mountain View, CA November 2015 to July 2017 Main responsibilities were Vmware Virtual Cloud Director v5.5 administration as well as Mac mini and iPhone administration, upgrades, etc. Duties included implementing and troubleshooting new vGroups and VMs on ESXi 5.5 as well as upgrading the iOS of multiple Macs and iPhones and performing multiple configuration changes. Oversee upgrades, backups and maintenance of Windows 2003/2008/2012R2/2016 both virtual and physical (including blades). Coordination with engineering teams to define SOPs for implementing a minimum security baseline. Monitor, isolate and troubleshoot logged events. Provide third level support to junior and mid-level systems administrators.    Projects include:  - Troubleshooting issues with vCloud associated VMs and vGroups  - Modify custom settings for Mac connected devices including verification  - Server and network systems monitoring using third party applications  - Troubleshooting connectivity issues with VMs and Macs  - Migrating from vCloud 5.5 to 5.6  - Windows 2003 through Windows 2016 basic administration  - Remote administration via iLO and iDRAC Senior Systems Engineer Silicon Valley Bank - Santa Clara, CA December 2014 to October 2015 Main responsibilities were security scanning and analysis as well as security policy administration for over 1,000 Windows servers. Duties included providing recommendations/best practices with regards to Windows server and domain security, design enhancements, service pack and OS upgrades, as well as infrastructure alterations. Server applications included Exchange 2010/2013, IIS, Vsphere 5.5, Network Appliance and Dell storage. Oversee upgrades, backups and maintenance of Windows 2003/2008/2012R2 both virtual and physical (including blades). Coordination with engineering teams to define SOPs for implementing a minimum security baseline. Monitor, isolate and troubleshoot logged events. Provide third level support to junior systems administrators.    Projects include:  - Microsoft Security Compliance Manager implementation  - Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP) policy implementations  - Server and network systems monitoring using third party applications  - Nexpose vulnerability management tool implementation  - WSUS and SCOM 2012 administration Senior Systems Engineer Exponent - Menlo Park, CA May 2014 to November 2014 Main responsibilities are systems and network engineering and administration. Duties include providing recommendations/best practices in all major IT plans including server and domain security, design enhancements, application and OS evaluations/upgrades, server migrations and infrastructure alterations. Oversee acquisition and configuration of backend infrastructure including Exchange 2010/2013, Vsphere 5.5, Network Appliance and Dell storage. Oversee installation, configuration, upgrades, backups and maintenance of Windows 2008/2012R2, Linux/Vmware servers and Dell blades. Coordination with engineering teams to define SOPs for high availability, disaster recovery, server build procedures, server consolidation (Vmware and Hyper-V), software/hardware procurement and troubleshooting procedures. Monitor, isolate and troubleshoot logged events. Provide third level support to junior systems administrators.    Projects include:  - Exchange 2007, 2010 and 2013 Cluster administration and maintenance  - Sharepoint & SQL maintenance/administration  - VMware vSphere 5.5 implementations, conversions and ongoing administration  - Server and network systems monitoring using third party applications  - WSUS and SCOM 2012 administration    Other applications/ systems supported include:  - NetApp storage applications including SnapManager and SnapDrive  - Synology NAS  - HP Data Protector  - Veritas NetBackup 7.5  - Commvault Simpana 10  - Apache Web Server  - Microsoft IIS  - Redhat Linux AS 4 Senior Systems Engineer Dell Inc - San Jose, CA October 2011 to April 2014 Main responsibilities were systems and network engineering and administration. Duties included providing recommendations/best practices in all major IT plans including server and domain security, design enhancements, application and OS evaluations/upgrades, server migrations and infrastructure alterations. Oversee acquisition and configuration of backend infrastructure including Exchange 2010, Vsphere 5.1, Network Appliance and Equalogic storage. Oversee installation, configuration, upgrades, backups and maintenance of Windows 2008/2012, Linux/Vmware servers and Dell blades. Coordination with engineering teams to define SOPs for high availability, disaster recovery, server build procedures, server consolidation (Vmware and Hyper-V), software/hardware procurement and troubleshooting procedures. Monitor, isolate and troubleshoot logged events. Provide third level support to junior systems administrators.    Projects included:  - Exchange 2007 Cluster installation and maintenance  - Exchange 2010 administration  - Sharepoint & SQL maintenance/administration  - VMware vSphere 5 implementations, conversions and ongoing administration  - Server and network systems monitoring using third party applications  - WSUS and SCOM 2012 installation/administration    Other applications/ systems supported include:  - NetApp storage applications including SnapManager and SnapDrive  - Veritas NetBackup 6  - Commvault Simpana 10  - Dell ML6000 media library  - Apache Web Server  - Microsoft IIS  - TrackIT and Remedy helpdesk applications  - Redhat Linux AS 4 Senior Systems Engineer EMC Corporation - Santa Clara, CA October 2010 to October 2011 Main responsibilities were architectural analysis, implementation and support of customer networks. Duties included providing recommendations/best practices in all IT plans including design enhancements, application/OS backups/upgrades, server migrations and infrastructure alterations involving the Data Domain product. Oversee acquisition and configuration of backend infrastructure including Exchange 2010 and SQL 2008. Oversee installation, configuration, upgrades, backups and maintenance of Linux and Windows 2003/2008 servers including Blade Servers. Coordination with engineering teams to define SOPs for customers' IT infrastructures, including high availability, disaster recovery, server build procedures, server consolidation (Vmware Lab Manager virtual machines), software/hardware procurement and troubleshooting procedures. Monitor and isolate problems listed in Event logs. Provide third level support to junior systems administrators.    Projects included:  - Exchange 2007 Cluster installation and maintenance.  - Clarion and DDR Avamar for Exchange, Sharepoint & SQL implementation.  - VMware vSphere4 implementation.  - Mercury Sitescope monitoring.  - SQL 2005 mirroring installation.    Applications supported included:  - Veritas NetBackup 6 and BackupExec 11  - Apache Web Server  - Microsoft IIS 7  - Redhat Linux AS 4 Senior Systems Engineer Intervision Systems - Santa Clara, CA June 2010 to September 2010 Main responsibilities are architectural analysis, implementation and support of customer networks. As primarily a reseller for Network Appliance and Microsoft and VMware products, duties included providing recommendations/best practices in all major IT plans including internet security, design enhancements, application and OS evaluations/upgrades, server migrations and infrastructure alterations. Verify and maintain network security as well as overseeing acquisition and configuration of backend infrastructure. Oversee installation, configuration, upgrades, backups and maintenance of Linux and Windows 2003 servers including Blade Servers. Coordination with engineering teams to define SOPs for customers' IT infrastructures, including high availability, disaster recovery, server build procedures, server consolidation (Vmware virtual machines), software/hardware procurement and troubleshooting procedures. Monitor and isolate problems listed in Event logs. Provide third level support to junior systems administrators.    Projects included:  - Citrix XenDesktop setup  - Pre and Post sales for customers such as Pareto, Fibrogen, Keypoint and Citrix.  - Exchange 2007 Cluster installation and maintenance.  - Netapp 3040 Filer and SnapManager for Exchange & SQL implementation.  - VMware vSphere4 implementation.  - Mercury Sitescope monitoring.  - SQL 2005 mirroring installation.    Applications supported included:  - Veritas NetBackup 7 and BackupExec 11  - Apache Web Server  - Microsoft IIS 7  - Redhat Linux AS 4 Senior Systems Engineer Matchpoint Solutions - Fremont, CA December 2009 to January 2010 Contract position at Nummi Corporation. Fill-in role for another engineer out on vacation. Main responsibilities were to maintain uptime for various Vmware/Windows/Linux servers. Monitoring and investigating logs. Provide guidance to junior systems administrators.    Projects included:  - ESX virtual machine administration and monitoring.  - Windows 2000 and 2003 administration and monitoring.  - Exchange 2003 administration and monitoring.  - Linux administration and monitoring. Senior Systems Engineer Cisco Systems Inc - San Jose, CA June 2009 to September 2009 Main responsibilities were customer service for the Unified Computing System (UCS) which is a High Availability Blade Center geared towards cloud computing with an emphasis on virtualization. Responsibilities include implementation and support of complex customer environments. Duties include providing recommendations/best practices in the design of a grid computing solution, design enhancements, application and OS evaluations/upgrades, server migrations and infrastructure alterations. Oversee acquisition and configuration of backend infrastructure. Oversee installation, configuration, upgrades, backups and maintenance of Linux and Windows 2003/2008 servers. Coordination with engineering teams to define SOPs for customers' IT infrastructures, including high availability, disaster recovery, server build procedures, server consolidation (Vmware virtual machines) and advanced troubleshooting procedures. Provide guidance to junior systems administrators.    Projects included:  - Windows 2003 to 2008 migration. Design and implementation.  - Exchange 2003 and 2007 Cluster installation and maintenance.  - Netapp 3020 and 2050 Filer and SnapManager for Exchange & SQL implementation.  - VMware Vsphere4 implementation.  - Cisco Unity v4.2 implementation    Applications supported included:  - Microsoft IIS 6/7  - Cisco UCS  - Cisco Nexus 5000  - Redhat Linux Enterprise v3 Senior Systems Engineer Teneros Inc - Mountain View, CA May 2007 to June 2009 High Availability and Disaster Recovery Appliance on SUSE Linux and eventually Red Hat ES3 protecting Microsoft Exchange.  Main responsibilities were architectural analysis, implementation and support of customer emulated environments. Duties included providing recommendations/best practices in all major IT plans for QA including internet security, design enhancements, application and OS evaluations/upgrades, server migrations and infrastructure alterations. Oversee acquisition and configuration of backend infrastructure. Oversee installation, configuration, upgrades, backups and maintenance of Linux and Windows 2003/2008 servers. Coordination with engineering teams to define SOPs for customers' IT infrastructures, including high availability, disaster recovery, server build procedures, server consolidation (Vmware virtual machines) and advanced troubleshooting procedures. Provide guidance to junior systems administrators.    Projects included:  - Windows 2003 to 2008 migration. Design and implementation.  - VDI Deployment  - Exchange 2003 and 2007 Cluster installation and maintenance.  - Netapp 3020 and 2050 Filer and SnapManager for Exchange & SQL implementation.  - VMware ESX 3.5 implementation.  - SQL 2008 Cluster installation and maintenance.  - Enterprise Vault v6 SP4 implementation.  - Cisco Unity v4.2 implementation  - Assist in managing offshore India team with QA requirements    Applications supported included:  - Apache Web Server  - Microsoft IIS 6/7  - Microsoft SQL 2005/2008  - Suse Linux v10.2  - Redhat Linux Enterprise v3    *Position descriptions prior to 5/07 are available upon request Education Strategic Business Management Stanford University in Palo Alto - Palo Alto, CA June 2002 Sunnyvale, California Stanford University in Palo Alto - Palo Alto, CA April 2002 IPC Technologies in Richmond - Richmond, VA December 1998 diploma in Advanced Placement Computer Science Gar-Field High School - Woodbridge, VA June 1993 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, CITRIX, DHCP, VMWARE