Systems Administrator/ Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Administrator / Systems Engineer - Network Technology Academy Institute, Malden Austin, TX ? Expert level in installing, configuring and maintaining Windows, Linux, UNIX Servers, Hypervisors and Desktops. Highly dedicated technical professional. Professionally resolving customer's complex technical issues to satisfaction on a daily basis.  ? Competently and successively built, configured, troubleshoot and maintained server operating systems, active-directory, databases and web applications infrastructure solutions according to project specification through planning, dev, staging, testing, and live production lifecycle phases.  ? Effectively procure, provision, upgrade, monitor, troubleshoot and maintain all Red Hat, SUSE Linux, UNIX and Windows Servers on Generic, HP, Dell, IBM blades and midrange systems.  ? Proficiency in VMware HA, DRS, vMotion, vCenter solutions. Work Experience Systems Administrator/ Systems Engineer Network Technology Academy Institute, Malden - Boston, MA July 2013 to Present Evaluate, recommend, build and execute new infrastructure technologies and update existing web architecture: Linux and Windows servers to ensure optimum performance operation, high availability, and reliability for both internal and hosted cloud services and applications.  ? Plan, provision, deploy, configure, consolidate, upgrade and manage VMware vSphere, Amazon Web Services, virtual computing resources and workloads: compute, storage and networks.  ? Audit, patch, remediate and fix common security vulnerability exposures (CVE) on RHEL, Centos and Windows servers for global PCI-DSS, HIPAA deployment compliant environment.  ? Investigate systems architecture and application problems to identify and research root-cause analysis and determine possible resolutions. Interface directly with vendors and other IT group to execute and solve complex or unique projects and issues.  ? Prepare, organize, and deliver training sessions and workshops to staff and administrators. Linux Platform Operation Systems Engineer Demandware Inc - Burlington, MA February 2013 to July 2013 Collaborated with the software developers in an Agile/DevOps/Scrum environment; utilizing mostly internally developed DevOps automation tools to deploy Platform (PaaS) and Infrastructures as a Service (IaaS) systems for eCommerce and Mobile customers.  ? Provisioned, managed and troubleshoot Demandware cloud deployment for LAMP, WAMP stacks, LDAP Server, SSL Certificates, F5 Load Balancer, SSO and client authentications.  ? Deployed and troubleshoot JAR, WAR, EAR applications in domains and clustered environments.  ? Assisted with the implantation of security best practices to meet standards, policies and procedure at all level of CI/CD processes. Technology Systems Consultant/ Systems Administrator Harvard University - Technisource - Cambridge, MA December 2011 to June 2012 Provided audits, planning, design, installation, configuration and testing of computing infrastructure architecture, based on the Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), Windows, Centos and Ubuntu operating systems.  ? Automated Server build using kickstart and customized code script for UNIX and Linux platform.  ? Managed and allocated shared resources CPUs/RAMs/Volumes through job schedulers and resource managers on HPC cluster systems according to policies.  ? Deployed file servers, and multiple Virtual Host domains to a new hosting site using puppet.  ? Processed and resolved tickets for technical issues from staff, students via email and other tools.  ? Provided daily technical support to administrators, staff, students and the college community. AmeriCorps Consultant - Public Government & Business Entities June 2008 to November 2011 Information Technology Technician    ? Designed, installed, configured and troubleshoot LAN/WAN, Desktop and Domain infrastructure.  ? Coordinated, collaborated and managed tasks in Data Centers with various group and technology vendors.  ? Procured, built, cloned and upgraded computer systems and trained staff and administrators.    INTERESTS, AFFILIATIONS, ACTIVITIES and APPETITES:  Soccer, Cooking, Piano, Software, Emerging Technologies: Microservices, Clouds, HPC, XaaS, IoT, etc. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Electronics / Electrical Engineering Wentworth Institute of Technology - Boston, MA Skills Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, Linux, Linux Administrator, Redhat, SCCM, Red Hat, Amazon Web Service AWS (2 years), Microsoft Web Service Azure (2 years) Certifications/Licenses VCP-DCV Present MCSE Present TCP/IP Present CCNA Present Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zbzacvq5ah2swp4t Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.