Sr. Devops CloudEngineer Sr. Devops CloudEngineer Sr. Devops CloudEngineer - Apple Sunnyvale Las Vegas, NV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Devops CloudEngineer Apple Sunnyvale March 2017 to Present Written Ansible playbooks for deployments, upgrades, etc.  Written python scripts, Golang programs, for ad hoc tasks  Deployed, upgraded Kubernetes. Used Operator Framework to create CRDs.  Container deployment/orchestration using Docker Swarm,  Set up Jenkins pipelines Sr. Devops Engineer GE Software February 2015 to March 2017 Involved in the design and the deployment of the industrial cloud  Set up Jenkins CI/CD pipelines; set up ad hoc jobs with Rundeck  Deployed, upgraded Cloud Foundry; created Bosh releases for custom software.  Deploying on AWS using Cloudformation; set up AWS VPCs. Sr. Systems Engineer Apple Sunnyvale February 2013 to February 2014 Architected, installed, managed Hadoop clusters  Migrated infrastructure from one data center to another datacenter  Implemented Ansible playbooks to deploy new data nodes.  Implemented Chef cookbooks for rolling out new virtual machines  Set up Nagios and Ganglia for automated monitoring  Set up cobbler to install KVM hypervisors Hosting Architect Jive Software - Palo Alto, CA June 2012 to December 2013 Managed Netapp 3200 series appliances; installed Oncommand tools  Managed, installed, troubleshoot UCS manager, Chassis, rack servers  Managed ESxi 4.1 virtual infrastructure, vcenter.  Installed and upgraded VMWare ESXi, VMWare Virtual Center, VMWare Infrastructure Clients.  Build puppet modules for rolling out cloud instances Systems Architect NetApp - Sunnyvale, CA September 2010 to August 2012 Participated in requirements, design, build, test phases of many IT projects  Designed multi-site hosting in DMZ with single MIP and VIP  Troubleshoot Webgate SSO problems, SSL cert problems on multi host sites  Involved in data center design and capacity planning. Systems Administrator Fat Spaniel June 2009 to September 2010 Migrated a Colo datacenter and set up a standby platform for applications during the migration  Created IPSec tunnels between corporate and datacenter VLANs and set up SSL VPN  Installed and upgraded to ESXi 3.5, 4.0 and 4.1, and vCenter and vSphere  Installed, set up and managed MySql databases and replication, and created backups using netvault  Installed and managed Centreon for centralized nagios monitoring  Installed and managed Cisco switches, Procurve Switches and Fortigate/Fortinet firewalls.  Set up PXE environment for diagnostics and firmware upgrades.  Created VLANs on Procurve, Netgear and Cisco switches  Installed and Managed OpenLDAP clusters in MirrorMode replication and master-slave replication.  Migrated from ApacheDS LDAP server to OpenLDAP.  Created and managed HA and Load balancing functions in Fortigate. Systems Administrator Verisign - Mountain View, CA July 2008 to May 2009 Automated nagios upgrade on 400 production servers using ROX plans.  Involved in troubleshooting Weblogic clusters, SUN One iPlanet /Apache webservers, Tomcat App servers.  Automated the deployment of tripwire agents using datacenter automation tools.  Performed upgrades of Apache and weblogic, applied solaris cluster patches.  Involved in implementing vintela LDAP/AD solution.  Involved in IPMI based remote management of servers in remote data centers.  Upgraded from Solaris 8 to Solaris 10, migrated applications.  Configured JMS, JNDI, JDBC and connectors in Weblogic servers; managed Weblogic clusters Systems Administrator AT&T Labs - Florham Park, NJ January 2006 to June 2008 Upgraded and patched RHEL Clusters and Solaris boxes.  Administered LSF for managing hosts and jobs.  Managed GFS on some clusters for in house applications.  Monitored the environment with Nagios, and other tools.  Managed BIND/DNS, along with sendmail and postfix.  Upgraded Oracle databases from 9i to 10g.  Installed solaris using jumpstart; RHEL with Kickstart.  Installed and configured VMware ESX servers, and deployed guest operating systems.  Configured VLANs on cisco switches  Installed zones and managed resources on Solaris 10  Involved in scalable configuration management, administration. Education Bachelor's