Systems Engineer -Third Party Integrations <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer -Third Party Integrations Systems Engineer -Third Party Integrations - FujiFilm Medical Systems Palm Coast, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer -Third Party Integrations FujiFilm Medical Systems - Stamford, CT January 2017 to Present Create and run test protocols for software integration  ? Setup specific IAM profiles per group utilizing newly released APIs for controlling resources within AWS based on group or user.  ? Involved in maintenance and performance of Amazon EC2 instances.  ? Design and implement highly available (HA) and disaster recovery (DR) solutions  ? Administer Windows Server 2012 R2 Active Directory Environment  ? Migrate virtual servers from VMWare to AWS  ? Install and configure virtual cloud instances  ? Support cloud servers including security configurations, patching, and troubleshooting  ? Develop and execution of test cases for a cloud environment  ? Responsible for Installation and Configuration of FujiFilm's Synapse PACS, Cardiovascular, VNA and RIS  ? Setup and diagnose issues with Query Retrieval from PACS and VNA  ? Create and maintain documentation for FDA requirements on third party integrations Sr. Systems Engineer Radiology Associates - Daytona Beach, FL May 2008 to Present Manage project deployment lifecycle, define requirements, research solutions, design systems, support testing and oversee live implementation.  ? Design, Implementation, Testing and Deployment of VMware Infrastructure  ? Installation, Configuration, Administration and Troubleshooting of VmWare ESX 5.x, Vsphere 5.x, VCenter, VI Client  ? Create strategies for performing repetitive tasks such as data acquisitions, migrations, data recoveries and new database implementations.  ? Create documentation that provides guidelines in regards to maintenance tasks, policies and procedures.  ? Install and implement new programs, modules, servers, hardware, and network equipment when necessary to upgrade, improve resources or increase compatibility.  ? Led enterprise wide hardware/software installations; oversaw major server upgrade/expansion project that improved network access protection (NAP), terminal services and network performance; and integrated new technologies into existing data-center environments.  ? Configuring and Managing Active Directory, Exchange, DHCP, WSUS, WDS, user rights and policies, Anti virus, and backup servers in the corporate network.  ? Scheduled, coordinated and deployed server updates and preventative maintenance with limited downtime.  ? Stabilized, expanded and protected client network and PC environment. Built new file servers to maximize Web hosting, terminal server, file/print sharing and domain control performance.  ? Troubleshooting network problems and conflicts. Suggest improvements in speed of the operations and processes.  ? Installation and configuration of Fuji RIS and PACS Applications  ? Basic Configuration & VLAN setup on Cisco 1900, 2950, 2960 Switches.  ? Create Scripting Solutions in PHP, Visual Basic, Batch, Powershell, SQL and ASP increase output performance for daily task.  ? Develop, code and test web base software using primarily HTML 5.0, PHP, JavaScript, MySQL, CSS and CMS systems.  ? Implement, configure and administer Digium Switchvox phone systems. Systems Engineer - Cloud Services SoftPro - Raleigh, NC May 2016 to January 2017 Responsible for maintaining IT infrastructure including server hardware, VMware environment, Hyper-V environment, data storage, switching and routing, backups, VPN, VOIP systems, network monitoring, Azure, Rackspace, and all Microsoft technologies  ? Architected and implemented highly available, Microsoft Terminal Services environment inside of Microsoft Azure  ? IaaS, PASS and SaaS implementation and administration inside of Microsoft Azure and RackSpace cloud environments  ? Provided Enterprise Server support for over 300 virtual machines in a cloud environment  ? Configure and administer Windows Server 2012 R2 Active Directory Environment  ? Manage Microsoft Azure environment  ? Migrated entire onsite pre-production environment to Microsoft Azure  ? Install Windows Update/Patches, Software and Performed Diagnostics on 300 servers per month during weekends and overnights via WSUS  ? Migrate virtual servers from RackSpace to Microsoft Azure  ? Setup and manage Microsoft Hyper V and SCVMM servers Systems Administrator Halifax Health - Daytona Beach, FL June 2006 to May 2008 Provided escalated IT support including hardware troubleshooting, backup and recovery, email communication and application support.  ? Provide Testing and Implementation for Software and Hardware Interfaces.  ? Team Leader for IT Projects and Project Management Support.  ? Install, configure and test hardware and software desktop/laptop products and then build images/pushes from those tests as necessary to provide services to customers.  ? Active Directory, DHCP, DNS and WSUS Administration and Support.  ? Implement and Support Microsoft Business Desktop Deployment.  ? Provide Solutions for Security Vulnerabilities on all Workstations, Laptops and Servers.    Systems Proficiency Education Bachelors of Science degree in Information Technology Florida Technical College 2016 Associate's Degree in Web and Graphic Design Florida Technical College 2006 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), deployment (10+ years), DHCP (10+ years), PACS (10+ years), VMWare (10+ years) Additional Information ? Problem solver with demonstrated success analyzing complex technical issues and rapidly finding solutions.  ? Accomplished Sr. Systems Engineer with over 10 years of experience managing server infrastructures and data-center operations across multiple platforms (UNIX, Linux, and Windows). Effectively plan, install, configure and optimize the IT infrastructure to consistently achieve high availability and performance.  ? Proven ability to create and deliver solutions tied to business growth, organizational development and systems/network optimization. Skilled problem identifier and troubleshooter, comfortable managing systems, projects and teams in a range of IT environments.    Operating Systems  Windows server (All versions), Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Unix, CentOS, Ubuntu, OSX, IOS  Networking and Phone Systems  TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, WINS, SMTP, VLAN, VPN, Cisco switches, Cisco firewalls, Nortel switches, Mikrotik routers, Digium phone systems  Hardware  HP Servers, Dell Power Edge Servers, PCs, All PC Components, Workstations, Laptops, Tablets, Mobile devices, Barracuda spam firewalls, EMC SANs, IP KVM switches  Software and Utilities    SVCCM, SCOM, Hyper V, VmWare, VSphere, VCenter, esx, MSSQL, MySQL, SCCM, SCOM, HTML, CSS, PHP, ASP, VBScript, Java, LAMP, FreeNAS, Powershell, OwnCloud, Wordpress, Active Directory, WSUS, DameWare, NetSupport, Citrix, Microsoft Deployment, New Boundary Prism Deploy, Heat Call Tracking, Symantec Anti virus, Backup Exec, Fuji Synapse PACS, Fuji Synapse RIS, DR PACS, DICOM, Microsoft Office Suite, Visio