IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - MedCare Pediatrics Stafford, TX * 11 years in the Oil and Gas / Medical industry with experience and expertise as a IT Manager providing Systems Engineer, Network Administration, Systems Design, Data Network Security knowledge.  * Work with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Planning, Analysis/Design, Development, and Testing for major corporate application (SharePoint, CMIS, OVS, complete 0365 migration).  * Professional communication and presentation skills in English and Spanish.  * Demonstrate abilities in coaching, training, organizational development, customer services and deliver solutions tied to business growth, organization development and systems and or network optimization.  * Well versed in project management tools including MS-Project, Agile methodology & Team Foundation Server  * Utilize .NET framework to create web-services that allowed for creation, synchronization and transfer of data between the local encrypted databases and the centralized Oracle 10g database.  * Utilize SQL to verify transfers and synchronization of data Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager MedCare Pediatrics - Stafford, TX January 2019 to Present • Monitor remote user’s access to our network  • Managed and maintained DR Off-site locations   • Converted and installed new hyper converged infrastructure (Nutanix)  • Managed IT Team and provide Executive assistance to upper management to make proper business decisions.   • Monitor and maintain all servers, VM's, Workstations, phone systems, and other network equipment Systems Engineer Gulf Interstate Engineering - Houston, TX November 2018 to Present * Research, design, implement, and maintain the company's backup and recovery systems, insuring against the loss of critical data.  * Develop and maintain technical documentation and diagrams for the IT Infrastructure.  * Manage IT related project and provide budgetary items to the IT manager necessary for management. ( Office 365 Migration, Exchange online migration/ Sharepoint Migration)  * Research, design, implement, and maintain, the company's IT Infrastructure including: Physical servers, virtual hosts (VMware) and guests, storage area networks, switching, routing, firewall, and other related systems.  * Manage Installation and support Nutanix Infrustructure refresh cutting our physical server footprint by 75% and cost by 60%  * Install new Servers for applications, maintain system upgrades, evaluate and install patches and resolve OS related issues.  * Maintain and monitor system configurations to ensure uptime availability, security and data integrity.  * On-Call Duties require response to off-hour alerts on company critical systems, calls, emails. Etc. to insure uptime and operational efficiencies. Systems Administrator Gulf Interstate Engineering - Houston, TX January 2018 to November 2018 * Maintain Veaam backups and recover of critical data when needed caused by data loss in natural disasters and accidental or intentional deletions.  * Monitor and maintain Infrastructure on prem and cloud (azure, AWS and Google) Linux and windows machines and.  * Maintain and Assist in CISCO core and access refresh, monitor switches on a day to day and resolve network issues as needed  * Install new Servers for applications, maintain system upgrades, evaluate and install patches and resolve OS related issues.  * Maintain and monitor system configurations to ensure data and system security and integrity.  * Provide third tier application support to end users.  * Support for our Construction management Information system and SharePoint administrator. Business Analyst Gulf Interstate Engineering - Houston, TX August 2015 to January 2018 * Work as a Business Analyst consulting with customers to help identify solutions for supported applications  * Developed Materials Management Invoice Tracking with SharePoint reducing invoice approval time by 48% and increasing the efficiency of invoices tracked.  * Support Management Team on evaluating projects and creating business cases for projects and executing project plans.  * Create business requirements documents, including business and functional specifications for the project team  * Guide Project Teams through User Acceptance Testing, tracking bugs and issues, create test scripts and wireframes mockups  * Create training materials, including user manuals and quick reference guides, and conducts trainings, as needed  * Scope new projects, interpret business needs, translate technical issues, identify and model data requirements, identifying business requirements, and test requirements.  * Provide second tier application support to customers and coordinate with third party vendors and internal IT personnel to resolve system issues. Systems Analyst / Systems Administrator OVS Group LLC - Houston, TX January 2010 to August 2015 * Administered and supported Windows 2003-2012 R2 servers to include Active Directory, Group Policy, MS IIS, LAN, WAN, DNS, DHCP, VPN, WINS.  * Responsible for upgrading software in network environment and client computers local and Internationally.  * Guided teams through SDLC models to complete full Network Implementations, full office migrations, and SharePoint Integration  * Lead the development and design of a new Business Productivity Suite 0365.  * Solid experience in user requirements gathering, Systems Analysis & Design, Product Management.  * Responsible for all vendor contracts Microsoft, Dell, Redhawk Security, AT&T, & Copiers  * Provided user support and issue management to ensure minimal system down time and to provide a consistent and reliable user experience.  * Developed Asset Inventory system using VB.NET and SQL reducing hardware / software licensing by 30%.  * Provided user support and issue management to ensure minimal system down time and to provide a consistent and reliable user experience.  * Expanded scope of services to include: Avaya Intuit AUDIX voicemail system, Avaya Partners system and Avaya IP Office/ Access Cards control system. Network Administrator BPZ Energy - Houston, TX May 2009 to December 2009 * Built ground-up network by evaluating network performance issues including availability, utilization, throughput, and latency; planning and executing the selection, installation, configuration, and testing of equipment; defining network policies and procedures; establishing connections and firewalls.  * Maintained network performance by performing network monitoring and analysis, and performance tuning; troubleshooting network problems; escalating problems to vendor.  * Maintained organization's effectiveness and efficiency by defining, delivering, and supporting strategic plans for implementing information technologies and disciplining employees; coordinating, and enforcing systems, policies, and procedures.  * Lowered recovery time by implementing disaster recovery and back-up procedures and information security and control structures. Education Masters in Business Administration Texas A&M - Houston, TX October 2018 to December 2020 Bachelor of Business Administration in Enterprise Information Systems University of Houston Downtown - Houston, TX May 2015 Skills System Administrator (9 years), Active Directory (8 years), SCCM (3 years), Vmware (5 years), Linux (4 years), Business Analysis (8 years), Nutanix (2 years), Windows Server (2003,2008,2012,2016,2019) (9 years), It Project Management (4 years), Veeam (3 years), Dell EMC (3 years), Powershell, AWS, DNS, Cisco, Exchange, Network Administration, Customer Service, Excel, Strategic Planning, Citrix, IT Management, Itil, VoIP, Vendor Management