IT Infrastructure Engineer IT Infrastructure Engineer IT Infrastructure Engineer - MultiPlan Plano, TX IT professional with a background in a wide array of technical disciplines. Have designed, built, configured, and maintained data centers made up of several hundred servers from multiple vendors and data storage of hundreds of terabytes of capacity. Work Experience IT Infrastructure Engineer MultiPlan, LLC. - Irving, TX 2018 to Present • Responsible for the deployment, operations and optimizing of the IT infrastructure at the local colocation facility.  • Administered the Windows-based Active Directory environment and the Enterprise’s Windows servers.  • Installed operating system (Windows) and software on various platform types (servers, desktops/laptops), both virtual and physical.   • Provided Tier 3 support to local IT staff and to our other sites across enterprise.  • Installed/managed the VMware virtual environment for servers.   • Led a project to upgrade all of the older Win2003 and Win2008 servers to newer OS versions. IT Infrastructure Engineer TRIUMPH-VOUGHT - Arlington, TX 2012 to 2018 Responsible for the deployment, operations and optimizing of the division-level IT infrastructure. To include the operations of our datacenter's servers, storage, power (UPS & generator), HVAC capacity, and security access.  • Worked closely with other IT groups to co-ordinate priorities and requirements for upcoming projects. Lead and guided the current IT team to better understand and utilize the processes in place to align with great customer service and meet our SLA requirements.  • Systems architect for our virtual server infrastructure. Managed the development of requirements, purchase of hardware, and installation of new server resources at multiple remote sites. The new VMware hosts are a virtualized environment of Windows and Linux servers.  • Administered the Windows-based Active Directory environment and the Enterprise's Windows and Linux servers.  • Managed storage arrays across the enterprise made up of NetApp, EMC/Clariion.  • Installed operating system (Windows and RedHat/Linux) and software on various platform types (servers, desktops/laptops), both virtual and physical.  • Provided Tier 3 support to local IT staff and to our other sites across enterprise.  • Installed/managed the VMware virtual environment for servers and VDI systems.  • Installed/managed Symantec Enterprise Protection v12 (SEPM). Customized the scanning policies of multiple environments, so as to not interfere with normal operations of the computing resources, both virtual and standalone.  • Resolved multiple issues related to Symantec Antivirus server application's instability, which included AV clients not getting timely updates and over usage of network bandwidth resources from remote sites.  • Worked with and provided direction to the external support vendors (HP, IBM, Dell, Red Hat, VMware, NetApp, EMC) for repairs, licensing, and support contracts.  • Maintained inventory of all hardware, software, and licensing elements from all vendors.  • Installed/managed MS Windows Software Update Services (WSUS) server software to control OS updates to all Windows platforms.  • Provided upper management with requests for hardware & software purchases. Worked with vendors to receive their recommendations based on requirements provided to them.  • Wrote scripts to automate other system admin functions.  • Performed capacity planning for storage needs based on user's requirements. Sr. IT Systems Analyst ALCATEL-LUCENT - Plano, TX 2006 to 2012 Managed the Proof-of-Concept lab's computing infrastructure. This effort included initial physical design & layout of lab, its power usage & UPS capacity, network connectivity, security policies, HVAC capacity, IP addressing, SAN, and VLAN management. Installation of server cabinets, data storage & servers from multiple vendors - including HP (Proliant & BladeSystem), IBM Bladecenter, Dell PowerEdge, and Sun Netra.  • The lab had multiple ongoing projects to showcase the latest in cutting-edge technology being made available to potential telecommunication customers.  • Installed/managed McAfee AntiVirus (ePO) server application. This application coordinates the control of antivirus client scanning, updating the antivirus data (.DAT) files, and the security software on clients.  • Installed/managed Juniper firewalls and SSL VPN appliance to control lab connections to & from outside entities, including the ALU WAN and the Internet.  • Managed usage of Amazon EC2 cloud-based server infrastructure for multiple server applications.  • Installed operating system (Windows, Solaris/Unix, and RedHat/Linux) and software on various platform types (servers, desktops/laptops). To include updates to OS (WSUS) and system firmware.  • Installed/managed lab's Windows Domain Active Directory infrastructure. Utilized Group Policies to isolate and assist with enterprise functionality and security.  • Brought VMware into the lab to assist in cost reductions, by reducing purchasing of more physical servers. Installed and managed multiple VMware ESX & ESXi servers. To include converting physical servers to virtual (p2v). Utilized clustering of ESX hosts to pool and balance the limited amount of server resources. Used VMware HA and DRS for proper failover of vm's and for load balancing.  • Installed/managed MS SQL Server (2005 and 2008) application on multiple servers, which required it for their operations, like WSUS, McAfee, IPTV, and Sharepoint.  • Installed/managed SAN for back-end data storage - connected via fiber switches and fibre channel HBAs. The storage was used for backups, video, and database storage. Multiple storage vendors are made up of EMC/DataDomain, EMC/Isilon, HP MSA-1000, NetApp FAS 2000 series filer, and a StorageTek SL500 tape silo.  • Installed and configured custom Sun Solaris/Unix jumpstart implementation.  • Used Oracle VirtualBox on new HP Win7-based desktop and laptop systems to enable older VPN application to run within the supported WinXP environment.  • Installed/managed RedHat cluster of HA servers to facilitate redundant sharing of data storage.  • Liaison with corporate IT organization for all network and security related matters. To include the lab's connectivity to the ALU WAN, its VLAN architecture/usage, and security implementations.  • Managed wired and wireless LAN infrastructure used on projects in lab. Sr. IT Systems Analyst CISCO SYSTEMS - Richardson, TX 2005 to 2006 Managed several R&D labs' computing framework, which was made up of the testing platforms, computer systems, and the network to interconnect all objects.  • The labs enabled the multiple business units to perform testing of their designs and improvements to both software and hardware.  • Performed hardware installation and maintenance (HP, Sun, IBM, Dell, Cisco).  • Installed OS (Windows, Solaris/Unix, and RedHat/Linux) and software on various platforms - to include VMware (both server & workstation versions).  • Provided recommendations for hardware / software purchases. Sr. System Administrator CELION NETWORKS - Richardson, TX 2003 to 2005 Managed a start-up's computing infrastructure - consisting of firewall/security/VPN, MS Exchange for email, capacity planning, backups, DNS, and the network to interconnect the multi-vendor platforms.  • Managed remote connectivity into enterprise, utilizing Cisco VPN hardware and software.  • Performed hardware installation and maintenance (HP, Sun, IBM, Dell, Cisco).  • Installed OS (Windows, Solaris/Unix, and RedHat/Linux) and software on various platforms. Sr. System Administrator IT AVENUES - Dallas, TX 2001 to 2003 Worked on several consulting contracts to perform various system/network administration type functions. Installed OS (Windows, Solaris/Unix, and RedHat/Linux) and applications. Designed and implemented local area networks for small business firms. Installed enterprise-wide antivirus software application. Systems Support Engineer SILICON GRAPHICS, INC - Dallas, TX 1995 to 2001 Performed system support and consulting services for SGI customers. Deployed, configured, and repaired SGI hardware, software, and networks. Plus, OS installations (IRIX/Unix, Windows, Solaris/Unix, and RedHat/Linux). Installed several SAN implementations, made up of HDS and EMC/Clariion data storage. Installed and configured multiple HA configurations. Performed performance tuning, capacity planning, analysis of systems & applications in-use, file sharing (NFS) constraints and security analysis for multiple customers. Lead multiple deployment projects at customer sites. To include training of new customers. Supported Cray (T3E) supercomputer hardware and software at several customer sites. Systems Administrator PARANET - Dallas, TX 1993 to 1995 Managed HPC multi-vendor environment (Sun, SGI, IBM, HP, Auspex NAS, and NetApp NAS). Installation and management of OS (Windows, Solaris/Unix, IRIX/Unix, HP-UX/Unix, and AIX/Unix) and applications. Systems Administrator RAYTHEON - Garland, TX 1991 to 1993 Managed multiple systems and storage implementations, including SGI(IRIX), Sun(Solaris), and NetApp. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Computer Science Angelo State University - San Angelo, TX Skills LINUX (10+ years), SOLARIS (10+ years), UNIX (10+ years), EMC (10+ years), NETAPP (10+ years), MS Windows Server (10+ years), Vmware Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Area Years Level* Last-used* Description  Systems 15+ 4 Curr MS Windows (2016, 2012, 2008R2, 2003, 10, 8.1, 7)  15+ 4 Curr Linux - RedHat, CentOS, Fedora, Ubuntu, Suse  15+ 10 2 4 5 2 2012 2001 2012 Unix - Solaris IRIX HP-UX, AIX  6 3 Curr Mac OS X  Hardware 13 5 Curr HP Proliant & BladeSystem  10 4 Curr IBM BladeCenter  15+ 5 2012 Sun  15+ 5 Curr Dell  10 5 2001 SGI/Cray  4 4 2012 Juniper firewall & SSL-VPN  2 3 2012 Amazon EC2 cloud-based  1 2 Curr Cisco UCS  15  11  8  8  6  5  6    4  4  3  3  3  3  3    Curr  Curr  Curr  2012  2012  2012  2001    Storage - HP MSA  NetApp  EMC/Clariion  StorageTek tape  EMC/DataDomain  Dell iSCSI  HDS    10 5 Curr Raritan KVMs  Software 15+ 10 5 4 4 3 Curr Curr Curr MS AD, RDS, WSUS, SQL Server, IIS Visual Studio, Office Suite, .NET Framework, Sharepoint Exchange (2010, 2007, 2003)  13 5 Curr Symantec Enterprise Protection Mgmt  11 4 5 5 Curr 2006 VMware ESX & ESXi (v6.5, 5.5, 4.1, 3.5), vCenter Workstation and Server  6 2 5 3 2012 2003 NetBackup Backup Exec  10 4 2012 McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO)  2 2 2005 Citrix Metaframe  Networking 15+ 10 5 4 Curr Curr DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP, Ethernet, SFTP, SSH, NIS, CIFS, NFS iSCSI, IPsec-VPN