Systems Administrator Specialist <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Specialist Systems Administrator Specialist - First Bank Work Experience Systems Administrator Specialist First Bank - Clewiston, FL January 2016 to Present • Follows and incorporates First Bank's Core Values.  • Responsible for coordinating functions for the meeting of approved standards of quality and timeliness and for maintaining good relations with use departments.  • Responsible for ensuring all technology services duties are performed in compliance with internal procedures.  Ensures the technology services procedures manual is updated on a regular basis as needed.  • Ensure the proper use and maintenance of all magnetic media to ensure security and proper control is maintained in compliance with internal procedures.  • Assists in the development of corporate strategic and business planning.  • Maintains awareness of modern technologies and determines the best course of action to obtain strategic advantage without subjecting the Bank to any undue risk.  • Processes correspondence and telephone calls covering miscellaneous inquiries. Maintains regular and reliable attendance.  • Communicated thoroughly with client representatives and customers, enabling effective information exchange and efficient process management • Documented all inquiry activities in the appropriate reporting system • Provided responses to inquiries in writing using professional email skills • Negotiates contracts for technology, communications and information systems, services and equipment purchases.  • Experience with TCP/IP networking • Ability to diagnose hardware issues Familiarity with Windows user groups and permissions, • Strong Analytical and financial skills • Ensures backup of computer systems is stored in a secure area.  • Establishes and ensures the security of passwords for system operations.  • Performs minor computer maintenance and regular system backups.  • Monitors mainframe utilization to ensure efficient storage capacity and effective memory utilization, monitors network to ensure availability to all users.  • Observes and controls the status and performance of all components of network facilities.  • Identifies, diagnoses, and resolves problems affecting network performance.  • Manages and monitors the activities of computer network systems and facilities.  • Responsible for testing and analysis of all components of network products to provide adequate network performance.  • Develops policies and standards for use across network.  • Manages servers (Main Office & different branches, ) phone system, email (Exchange 2010-2016), and security.  • Cost to benefit analysis of business network and applications. Education Associate of Science degree in Network Engineering & Administration Southern Technical College - Fort Myers, FL December 2018 Skills Client/Server (Less than 1 year), CPR (Less than 1 year), Customer Service (Less than 1 year), DHCP (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year), FTP (Less than 1 year), INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY (Less than 1 year), IPv6 (Less than 1 year), LAN (Less than 1 year), LAN/WAN (Less than 1 year), maintenance (10+ years), Microsoft Office (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (Less than 1 year), Mitel (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year), networking (10+ years), TCP (3 years), TCP/IP (3 years), VMware (10+ years), System Administrator, System Admin