Systems Administrator / SharePoint Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / SharePoint <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator / SharePoint Administrator - Security Content Automation Protocol Athens, AL • Offer extensive strengths in IT operations including procurement, implementations, budget compliance, networking, system administration and driving process improvements.  • Able to collaborate with peers, clients and technical specialists to expedite and ensure project success.  • Strong training, mentoring, motivational and leadership expertise; consistently develop, energize, empower and direct top-performing and quality-focused personnel in achieving departmental and organizational objectives.  • Outstanding cultural sensitivity and expertise in working in high-stress environments overseas.  • Excel at interfacing with key stakeholders to propel forward-moving efforts across multiple initiatives concurrently.  • Innovative and forward-thinking with advanced troubleshooting capabilities.  • Able to provide influential guidance and recommendations to senior management on IT roadmap and strategy.  • Possess an active Secret Security clearance issued by the Department of Defense. Work Experience Systems Administrator / SharePoint Administrator Security Content Automation Protocol - Redstone Arsenal, AL 2015 to Present • Installed, configured, and administered servers including patches, back-ups and restores, Retina/SCAP (Security Content Automation Protocol) scanning and upgrades, and remediating issues using system logs.  • Administer Server 2012 R2/2016 virtual/physical servers including Active Directory maintenance, DNS, DHCP, GPOs, using MBSA for patching, IIS, SQL databases, Hyper-V, and Oracle VirtualBox.  • Support all clients and customers, ensuring equipment stability and above 98% up time.  • Maintain all current SOP's and documentation relating to all applicable processes and procedures.  • Administer all classified areas including maintaining classified equipment, training clients on the utilization of classified material, and storing classified items.  • Server virtualization and planning  • Imaging and administering Windows 10  • Managing and maintaining WSUS installation and update infrastructure IT Supervisor Dyncorp International - Kabul, AF 2013 to 2015 Acting IT Manager)  • Plan, direct and supervise the complete spectrum of IT operations encompassing strategic direction, budget administration, purchasing, vendor relations, proposals, and development of SOPs (standard operating procedures).  • Deliver first-rate support to all clients and customers both onsite and remotely while ensuring flawless equipment stability and functionality.  • Maintain all Group Policy and Active Directory objects as well as wireless equipment for MWR including WAPs and 3eTI devices.  • Administer Server 2008 R2 virtual/physical servers including Active Directory maintenance, patching, IIS, SQL databases, and VMware.  • Leverage sharp organizational skills to efficiently administer all SharePoint sites; create custom workflows, maintain permissions and maintain SharePoint server including updates and configuration changes.  • Resourcefully leverage Microsoft InfoPath forms to achieve and optimize department efficiency.  • Contribute exemplary talents in inventory control to maintain and track all Cisco switches, servers, routers, satellite equipment, cell phones, desktops and laptops.  • Document and diagram complex network configurations and layouts in Visio.  • Train, coach and mentor new IT personnel on Cisco Call Manager, Windows Deployment Services, CA Unicenter, Active Directory, and Spectrum. IT Manager / Sr. Systems Administrator Jacobs Engineering Group - Redstone Arsenal, AL 2012 to 2013 • Installed, configured, and administered servers including patches, back-ups and restores, Retina/SCAP (Security Content Automation Protocol) scanning and upgrades.  • Applied strong leadership talents toward hiring, training, evaluating, coaching and supervising helpdesk staff.  • Proposed new IT projects to support future expansion and implemented upgrades to optimize technical performance.  • Controlled IT budget and submitted weekly reports to management on IT expenses and savings.  • Maintained Adtran VoIP phone system including upgrades, unit and user additions, changes, and troubleshooting.  • Expertly administered programs spanning Active Directory, SCCM, Remedy, VoIP Manager, Parata, Vocera, Symantec Endpoint Protection, SharePoint 2007, TheraScribe and SQL Server.  • Functioned as primary contact for the SharePoint implementation and subsequently completed upgrade to SharePoint 2010.  • Authored SOPs to perform systems administration and justified purchase of purposed software/hardware upgrades.  • Successfully upgraded VM to Windows 7 including installation, configuration and patching.  • Maintained and updated customer website content via CSS. Network Administrator Dyncorp International - Kabul, AF 2011 to 2012 • Ensured constant network security, stability and uptime by contributing expertise in onsite and remote client support, SharePoint administration, IT budgeting, procurement of new technology, and configuration of Cisco switches, servers, routers, VoIP phones, satellite equipment, mobile devices and workstations.  • Prepared custom InfoPath forms for use in SharePoint workflows, devised SOPs for new equipment installations, and imaged desktops/laptops via Windows Deployment Server.  • Meticulously tracked all IT functions using Footprints and CA Unicenter. Systems Administrator III Alutiiq, Inc 2007 to 2011 • Supported enterprise applications, SCCM including building custom packages, SharePoint Server 2007/2010, WSS 3.0, SCOM 2007, and all computers being monitored.  • Maintained Active Directory (AD) and championed migration of existing AD infrastructure to a new infrastructure; expertly managed and monitored group policies for more than 6,000 users.  • Played a key role in optimizing bottom-line performance by analyzing, recommending and implementing enterprise management tools for remote administration, asset management and cost-effective software delivery.  • Built custom web parts or modifications using SharePoint Designer 2007, and synthesized data into interactive and static charts to clearly illustrate information flow. Network Administrator Intuitive Research and Technology Corporation - Huntsville, AL 2005 to 2007 • Spearheaded full-scope network administration including hardware and software procurement, network security, client support, data integrity, software implementations, server maintenance/updates and web page creation.  • Proficiently implemented Deltek GCS Premier including Time Collection module and Impromptu which markedly streamlined payment processes and elevated client/customer support.  • Maintained AD and Windows Server 2003 Enterprise/Standard Edition network which included the implementation of five new servers,  • Delivered technical training to 100+ employees and 30 subcontractors on new software as well as SharePoint services and portal usage.  • Administered alarm system including adding and removing users. Information Systems Manager The Letco Companies - Decatur, AL 2004 to 2005 • Performed extensive troubleshooting to identify, diagnose and swiftly resolve technical issues for customers.  • Oversaw all aspects of existing network infrastructure including changes and improvements.  • Directed, motivated and supervised Instant Diagnostic System (IDS) support team including spearheading upgrade and integration of new IDS software.  • Set up and implemented AD and delivered end user training for new programs and hardware. Education Associate in Network Engineering in Network Engineering Virginia College - Huntsville, AL 2005 Skills Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory