Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - Summit Business Technologies Mount Airy, MD Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Summit Business Technologies - Millersville, MD July 2017 to Present Primary Responsibilities:  • Design project plans and implement new IT solutions for managed services clients to meet their technology needs.  • Meet with key client decision makers to advise on the state of their technology infrastructure and provide recommendations for improvements as needed.  • Provide ongoing operational support for all aspects of customer's information systems and technology infrastructure.  • Provide on-site support to maintain client on premise solutions as well as maintain client information systems hosted in the cloud (Azure, AWS or hosted colocation environments).  • Configure LAN/WAN topologies, perform server staging and deployment. Provide redundant systems where possible using high availability firewall configurations and VMware clustering.  • Provide advanced troubleshooting of firewall configurations for units of various firewall manufacturers.  • Maintain client storage systems and virtual infrastructure (VMware, Hyper-V)  • Administer client Exchange servers and Office 365 solutions.  • Support client email spam filtering, continuity, compliance and encryption services (Appriver).  • Configure and deploy Sonicwall firewall's with key security services: DPI-SSL, GAV, IPS, App Control, CFS.  • Implement adaptive 2-factor authentication solutions and secure single-sign on portals (OKTA, Centrify, Duo). Provide documentation and training for non-technical staff on its use.  • Provide support for Remote App and Citrix solutions.  • Manage and administer phone systems as needed (Shoretel, Avaya IP Office).  • Design and implement backup strategy and disaster recovery plans that match client's expectation for downtime and storage requirements (Veeam and Storagecraft Shadow Protect).  • Provide detailed client reporting and documentation on a regular basis.  • Provide escalation support for additional support personnel. Team Lead/Sr. Systems Administrator Summit Business Technologies - Rockville, MD November 2015 to July 2017 Primary Responsibilities:  • Provide technical lead expertise to a team of remote systems administrators/desktop support engineers responsible for ramp-up/on-boarding of new enterprise level clients.  • Serve as an escalation point for 8+ support engineers who provide break-fix oriented support to client networks, server infrastructure and desktop environments.  • Provide advanced troubleshooting of firewall configuration.  • Configure SSL certificates on firewalls, web-based applications and Exchange.  • Provide advanced Windows server troubleshooting of configuration in DNS, DHCP, Group Policy, RDS farms and NPS.  • Manage/troubleshoot VMware hypervisors via vSphere / vCenter  • Train and mentor new engineers on the processes and procedures designated by department management.  • Design and present professional trainings on technical subjects to be recorded and distributed to Dataprise engineers for internal enrichment.  • Evaluate new client documentation to construct training material and knowledge base articles for use of technical engineers.  • Interface directly with client VIP's to communicate incident status and set expectations for open service issues. Sr. Systems/Network Administrator Phoenix International Holdings, Inc - Largo, MD March 2014 to November 2015 Primary Responsibilities:  • Maintain an 8-site VPN WAN Active Directory environment, including all associated networking and server hardware, reporting directly to the technical lead.  • Selection and configuration of new firewall and switching devices. Maintain existing firewall and switching configurations, including backup and restoration of running configurations as needed.  • Configured SSL-VPN on firewalls for remote access for users granted permission to work from outside the office.  • Configure QOS to prioritize VOIP traffic, guest and corporate wireless, and critical systems data. Configure ACL's on each of these networks to protect from unauthorized or unintentional access.  • Configure VLANs to isolate various wireless traffic, VOIP traffic and any other systems traffic as needed.  • Configure any SNMP capable devices to report to the Network Monitoring System (OpManager)  • Build out new sites in Active Directory and configure DCHP scopes and DNS servers as needed.  • Create/Remove all Active Directory accounts and Exchange mailboxes for new/terminated users. Maintain Exchange storage groups and associate databases.  • Maintain the Dell PowerVault SAN and associated SAN network.  • Implement new networked software applications, databases and associated license managers. Manage the upgrade schedule and maintenance of networked software titles.  • Maintain enterprise phone system (Digium Switchvox) and SIP provider agreements.  • Provide new site build plans and office relocation assistance for IT infrastructure.  • Project cost associated with build initiatives and advise on their impact on the annual budget.  • Procure communications for each site suitable for supporting large replicated data sets.  • Virtualize server infrastructure in the corporate headquarters using VMware ESXi.    Notable Accomplishments:  • Lead engineer in the implementation of enterprise level VOIP phone system (Digium Switchvox) and the procurement of SIP providers.  • Developed Java plug-in for Openfire Spark (IM client) to interface with Digium Switchvox for the purpose of communicating call presence by setting user status based on active calls.  • Lead engineer in the ground-up rebuild and relocation of 3 remote offices.  • Implemented secured wireless at 3 offices including separate corporate and guest networks using RADIUS authentication and captive portals.  • Designed rugged rack mount systems for offshore, maritime job-specific applications. IT Technician II Phoenix International Holdings, Inc September 2010 to March 2014 • Provided help desk support for end users.  • Upgraded major software packages for Accounting and Engineering design software as well as the associated network components and databases.  • Maintained workstation and software inventory system. Designed software upgrades to the inventory system as needed to collect relevant data from workstations.  • Managed group policy objects and developed administrative PowerShell and VB scripts.  • Managed DFS namespaces and their replication.  • Provided backup solutions for satellite offices to the corporate headquarters and long-term cloud backup using Barracuda hardware.  • Designed software deployments and implemented them through group policy or VB scripting.  • Supported Asterisk PBX system running on Linux.  • Supported Linux based (Debian) proxy and gateway servers.    Notable Accomplishments:  • Designed custom engineering workstations purpose built for handling large Solidworks assemblies, halving the cost of design workstations while increasing their performance.  • Worked with vendors and service providers to cut cost of operation by negotiating contracts. Implemented managed Ethernet internet service when available. Field Technician Fast-Teks of MD - Mount Airy, MD November 2008 to September 2010 • Installed and supported Point of Sale (POS) systems for large retail chains.  • Designed and implemented new small business networks. Provided customer estimates for hardware and equipment needed for proposed work.  • Supported small and large businesses for backup, server and network repairs, relocation, software integration, data recovery and malware removal.  • Provided remote support for standard maintenance and non-disaster troubleshooting.  • Provided on-call assistance for critical retail systems.  • Upgraded server and workstation operating systems in windows environments. Network/ Systems Administrator Laytonsville Contractors LLC - Gaithersburg, MD November 2005 to October 2007 • Sole technical employee tasked with the design, maintenance and support of a single site, single domain environment.  • Procured and implemented networked software for accounting and job tracking.  • Managed printer and file sharing to centralize data access across the network.  • Maintained updates to the company website.  Notable accomplishments:  • Implemented server presence and the ground-up build of an active directory network environment.  • Implemented paper-to-digital file archiving and established short and long-term backup solutions. Education Microsoft Certified Professional Montgomery College - Rockville, MD 2005 to 2006 Skills Infrastructure management, Remote access, Switching, Systems administration, Vlan, Vmware, Vpn, Disaster recovery, Firewall, Exchange, Virtualization, Scripting, Voip, Wireless, Hyper-v, Systems management, Linux