Freelance Network Administrator Freelance Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Freelance Network Administrator - Self-Employed Stone Mountain, GA Work Experience Freelance Network Administrator Self-Employed - Columbus, GA January 2016 to Present Designed and implemented an RDP server for a medical office.  ? Setup of complete installations of Windows and Linux on laptops and towers and routine IT maintenance  ? Handling of various networking issues  ? Ad-hoc general security consulting  ? Provision of networking guidance in support of existing infrastructure or planned changes Systems Engineer Inspire Brands - Sandy Springs, GA February 2019 to June 2019 Performed Tier 1 and Tier 2 troubleshooting and issue resolution in person and remotely on multiple domains, deskside and remote, using Remedy for documentation  ? Assisted in headquarters move planning and post-move user triage  ? Designed and implemented a comprehensive asset management system using Wasp AssetCloud  ? Improved provisioning process by using PXE booting and applying asset management simultaneously  ? Coordinated with multiple teams to evaluate improving the implementation of SCCM Client Services Technician Support.com - Stone Mountain, GA July 2018 to February 2019 Provide troubleshooting of various problems for users along with proactive education  ? Coordination with multiple departments to ensure resolution of client issues  ? Adhering to rigorous standards to protect sensitive information  ? Documentation of every customer interaction and troubleshooting interaction IT Field Technician Brooksource/WellStar - LaGrange, GA October 2017 to April 2018 Deployment of various types of IT equipment in support of an EHR transition for Wellstar  ? Configuration and troubleshooting of Dell Wyse zero and thin clients  ? Maintaining adequate records of inventory, including new equipment and old  ? Testing application for users' workflow and for quality assurance  ? Coordinating with onsite and offsite techs/analysts to resolve issues IT Helpdesk Technician Troy University - Phenix City, AL September 2016 to September 2017 Served as on-location technician for 2 buildings on the Troy Campus averaging 50 users; and servicing help desk tickets remotely from over 10 locations.  ? Explained complicated technical concepts to users with varying degrees of technical understanding. Admissions Department Assistant Columbus Technical College - Columbus, GA August 2015 to August 2016 Retrieved and organized student records, and indexed documents into an Ellucian database. Education Associate Degree Columbus Technical College - Columbus, GA June 2016 Skills Windows, Technical Support, Networking, Active Directory, Vmware Certifications/Licenses Network+ January 2017 to June 2022 Security+ June 2019 to June 2022