Cloud Operations/Administration Engineer Cloud Operations/Administration Engineer Cloud Operations/Administration Engineer - Intel Corporation Wilsonville, OR Work Experience Cloud Operations/Administration Engineer Intel Corporation June 2019 to Present • Build, administer and support several Intel Linux servers (Ubuntu and CentOS). Responsible for racking servers, installing operating systems, configuring network interfaces, adding/removing users, and monitoring, maintaining systems security, troubleshooting network issues and doing system performance tuning, Create and maintain ssh private keys and install public keys to remote servers for users log-ins.  • Perform hardware and firmware upgrade for physical Linux servers as well as patching and installing applications as needed.  • Use Ansible for configuration management and systems automation. Develop and implement playbooks with yaml programming for installing applications, deploying/updating software packages, gathering system information and adding/removing users to remote servers.  • Use OpenStack to create and manage several Linux virtual machines.  • Manage OpenVPN server to grant access to developers to the Intel servers in the lab.  • Use Jira Agile application for prioritizing projects, tracking issues and resolving tickets.  • Code with Python and write bash scripts to automate systems administration tasks. Sr. Systems Engineer/UNIX System Administrator IBM August 2012 to May 2019 • Administer and support several Intel Linux servers (Ubuntu 16.04/18.04, CentOS 7.6). Responsible for installing/upgrade operating systems and adding/removing users, creating Samba shares, writing scripts for SCP, SFTP and monitoring, maintaining systems security, troubleshooting network issues and doing system performance tuning, I have been taking care of quarterly systems' health checks, patching and install applications.  • Automate secure transport software for FTP, monitoring failures and sending alerts, workload automation software for job scheduling and sending reports. Automate Linux operating system taking care of user/file managements, checking disk usage, security scan, archiving and file transfer.  • Develop solutions using Powershell to control/automate Windows administration including alerting, monitoring, managing windows services, backing up/cleaning up/copying and transferring files  • Administer and support enterprise AutoSys Workload Automation 11.3.6 job management system to support critical financial batches for the company in multiple PRD, UAT, DEV, SQA, DRS and TST environments. Provision and add users to AutoSys systems using EEM (Embedded Entitlements Manager) and configure WCC f(Workload Control Center) for operators to monitor and execute jobs using the web pages. Responsible for upgrade/install AutoSys to the current version including schedulers and agents. Work with network firewall rule to configure AutoSys port numbers. Utilize JIL (Job Information Language) to create job definitions and import/export them to/from the AutoSys database.  • Administer and support JAWS (Jobs Assurance Analytics for AutoSys) for developers creating/analyzing the company's Critical Paths and AutoSys Job streams. Responsible for fixing AutoSys jobs latencies and improving jobs flows as well as generating analytics reports.  • Administer and support Axway Managed File Transfer (MFT) for complicated encrypted files transfer among financial institutions. Responsible for test/create new transfer channels upon new requests and maintain their reliabilities.  • Administer and support the Oracle JDEdwards Financial Suite for accounting department. Responsible for provision/add/remove users and creating scheduled jobs and reports as well as maintain system operations.  • Utilize IBM Maximo to create change requests and fix trouble tickets. Work on several IT security projects to ensure company's systems and software are compliant with IT standards.  • Administer Tivoli Storage Manager to back up servers' data and transfer it to offsite storage. Sr. Application Systems Administrator US Bank March 2007 to July 2012 • Administered and supported enterprise AutoSys r11 job management system to ensure the high availability of large number of complex scheduled jobs with primary, shadow and tie-breaker schedulers. Manage the UWCC to monitor/control AutoSys jobs. Schedule cross platform scheduling within UNIX, Windows and mainframe.  • Installed/fixed AutoSys/HP Openview clients in UNIX/Windows servers and assure the stable communication  • Administered and supported enterprise HP Openview to monitor resources and application of multiple servers for various departments by writing/apply monitoring templates.  • Administered and supported several Windows/Linux virtual machines using VMware Vsphere Console.  • Developed/wrote several Oracle database status reports using PL/SQL and sqlplus.  • Generated documentation to cross-train team members in areas of expertise.  • Consulted with end-user to develop standard procedures and define program objectives. Sr. Systems Administrator/Analyst Affiliated Computer Services, Inc December 2004 to February 2007 • Supported UNIX's ECOTools and Windows' ServerVantage monitoring application in a mission-critical data center.  • Maintained Autosys job scheduling, the batch scheduling tool for an enterprise supply chain management system.  • Prepared and presented technology recommendations to customers. Evaluated and recommended new vendor software.  • Developed backup and disaster recovery procedures to restore automation functionality in the event of a disaster.  • Developed complex ftp/pgp Perl script to automate the data transfer with several business partners.  • Developed Korn shell script to automate UNIX processes and functions for system monitoring and backup.  • Installed, Implemented and supported third-party applications on Windows Server 2003 and Solaris/HPUX servers.  • Managed and supported HP Dazel Output servers to distribute critical reports/documents to printers, fax and email.  • Administered the ESP Enterprise Scheduling system for scheduling jobs for ftp processes. Sr. Systems Administrator Southwest Washington Medical Center December 2000 to December 2004 • Provided second level support for UNIX infrastructure. Environment consisted of IBM RS6000 servers, HP9000 servers; EMC Symmetrix cached disk arrays, and HP AutoRAID disk arrays.  • Installed and configured MC/ServiceGuard high-availability platform to maximize system uptime.  • Managed Tivoli enterprise backup system. Developed scripts to facilitate backup operations and optimize data restoration time.  • Authored Perl scripts to automate routine system administration functions and optimize system performance.  • Generated daily and weekly system reports to track potential errors.  • Managed and setup Sendmail system on Redhat Linux servers.  • Provided support for Oracle 8.1.7 databases & the Cerner Millennium Lab system. Provided support for Oracle 9i databases and the Lawson HR/Payroll application. Sr. Systems Administrator Johnstone Supply, Inc December 1998 to December 2000 • Responsible for scheduling & automation of data transfer processes via FTP & UUCP modem transfers.  • Installed Sendmail to provide email services for company network.  • Managed Nokia Checkpoint Firewall, protecting company from external attacks, configured Internet usage rules.  • Responsible for account creation and removal on AIX 4.3 system.  • Administered Progress database.  • Completed Y2K certification and upgrades on AIX systems. IS Manager Bar Supply Brokerages, Inc September 1997 to November 1998 • Managed IBM RISC 6000 AIX 4.0 server with 100 users. Developed queries in Progress database to support distribution, inventory, and warehouse applications.  • Installed new hardware & software into environment. Responsible for upgrades conforming to vendor-supported levels.  • Designed and implemented programs to optimize system performance and support HR applications.  • Designed and implemented automated problem resolution system which reduced re-occurring problems and automated simple administrative tasks.  • Provided end-user training for entire company.  • Responsible for backup operations and data integrity. MIS Manager Garlington Community Mental Healthcare Center January 1994 to September 1997 • Supervised and evaluated a team of two engineers. Trained personnel to assume routine computer administration tasks.  • Evaluated and purchased hardware and software products for environment.  • Managed SCO UNIX & Windows NT 4.0 server for 200 users. Wrote SQL queries & scripts to generate reports from Informix database.  • Responsible for data transfer, data security, and system performance.  • Supported finance department information systems. Applications supported include billing, payroll, and e-mail. Education MS in Information Systems University of Phoenix 2006 BS in Computer Science Portland State University - Portland, OR 1988 Skills Aix, Apache, Awk, Korn, Korn shell, Linux, Sco, Sed, Solaris, Unix, Ux, Emc timefinder, Timefinder, Hp-ux, Volume manager, Db2, Informix, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Mysql, Powershell, Python Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/tranductrung Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages: Python, Ansible Yaml, Perl, Korn shell, Bash, Awk, Sed, C shell, SSH, C, C++, Powershell, PL/SQL, Transact-SQL.  Applications: Ansible, Jira Agile, OpenStack, Git, BMC, KVM, AutoSys 11.3.6/r11/4.5, WCC and EEM, JAWS 4.3.3, HP Openview, VMware, ITSM, Maximo, Axway Secure Transport 5.3.1, JDEdwards OneWorld Financial, Tivoli Enterprise Console, Compuware EcoTOOLS/ServerVantage, Logical Volume Manager, Apache, Samba, WS-FTP, Core-FTP, Putty, VNC, Reflection, EMC Timefinder & Control Center Suite, HP Surestore AutoRAID Disk Arrays, Tivoli, Cerner Millennium, McKesson HBOC, Lawson, McAfee PGP E-Business Server. SQL Server Management Studio 2012, Splunk, Tomcat, Sendmail, TSM, Azure.  Databases: Oracle 9i & 10gi, SQL Server 2008/2012, Informix, Progress 7.3E, DB2, PICK, MySQL.  Operating Systems/Hardware: Ubuntu 16.04/18.04, CentOS 7.6, Redhat Linux 7.0, SUSE Linux 11.2, Oracle Solaris 10/11, IBM AIX 4.3/5.2, SCO UNIX, HP-UX 10.20/11.0, MAC OS X, Windows Server 2000/2003 /2008/2012, Windows 7/10.