Senior Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Stow, OH An accomplished IT tech who is seeking a position where there are opportunities to apply and expand my understanding of servers and networking in an enterprise environment to work towards a position to primarily lead future architect solutions. Work Experience Senior Administrator Windstream Communications - Twinsburg, OH May 2014 to Present • Plan, setup, maintain, monitor, and upgrade enterprise Backup, Storage, Nas, San, and DR technologies.  • Work to spearhead standards and multi-year planning for simplified troubleshooting, information gathering, and environment future proofing.  • Build and execute plans with other teams with new app deployments. This also includes Storage, DR, and migrations to different platforms.  • Build out and manage Windows and Unix servers. Troubleshoot complex Unix, Windows, and ESX server issues. Technology Specialist Bridgestone Data Center - Akron, OH May 2010 to May 2014 • Setup, maintain, repair, and upgrade multiple Backup, San, NAS, Infiniband, and Monitoring technologies.  • Work with management to achieve multi-year planning strategies to future proof environments and for budgetary planning estimates.  • Build and execute plans with other teams with new app deployments. This also includes storage, dr, and migrations to different platforms.  • Build out and manage Windows and Unix servers. Troubleshoot complex Unix, Windows, ESX, and Citrix server issues. Website/ Systems Administrator Inspiron Logistics - Cuyahoga Falls, OH March 2008 to February 2009 • Maintain, update, modify website Html/Cold Fusion code and external client entry points.  • Build and maintain pc/server hardware/software integrity.  • Expand and maintain Active Directory environment.  • Maintain and service Ricoh and HP printers. Systems Administrator Kurtz Bros - Independence, OH November 2006 to August 2007 • Maintain Computers, Thin Clients, Printers, and Servers in a professional environment.  • Multi-forest Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange administration and resolution troubleshooting.  • Work with others to maintain Citrix integrity. Education Bachelors of Science in Networking University of Akron, Summit College - Akron, OH December 2010 Associates Degree of Computer Networking in Computer Networking Lakeland Community College - Kirtland, OH May 2007