Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Anaheim, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer TECT Power - Santa Fe Springs, CA December 2016 to Present Handle all IT-related issue for the site, including hardware/software purchases. Troubleshooting network devices, and properly maintaining computer network to ensure maximum up time and user productivity.  Maintain and troubleshoot all platforms of Microsoft Windows and VMWare servers.  Configure and troubleshoot HP switches at the site. Systems Administrator II B/E AEROSPACE - Anaheim, CA 1998 to 2016 Oversaw all IT-related issues, including hardware/software purchases, installing and troubleshooting network devices, and properly maintaining computer network to ensure maximum uptime and user productivity. Manage Windows 2012 servers, Windows 2008 servers, Windows 2003 servers, Windows NT 4.0 servers, Windows 2000 Servers, granting user access, writing login scripts, testing backup schemes for data reliability, and updating patches.  Attended weekly conference calls with other in-house network administrators and administrate internal telephone system. Worked closely with vendors, reviewing product offerings and making hardware/software purchase recommendations. Analyze user requirements and develop workable IT solutions to enhance company performance.  Key Achievements:  * Provided rapid-response to emerging virus threat by recruiting and training four-member cross-functional team to install and upgrade antivirus applications.  * Facilitated Engineering department's 25% productivity improvement by analyzing and recommending IMAN (Information Manger) application implementation.  * Contributed to 15% operating cost reduction by renegotiating calling rate with telephone company.  * Received employee awards for completing Y2K compliance project and rapidly responding to virus threat.  * Successfully led major network infrastructure relocation project.  * Identified and replaced or upgraded non-Y2K compliant hardware/software.  * Trained 15 users on Lotus Notes email; multiple users in operating remote VPN dialup. Programmer Analyst CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY 1994 to 1997 Lab Technician (1997), CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY - Fullerton, CA 1993 to 1997 Lab Consultant CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY - Fullerton, CA 1993 to 1994 Served in multiple professional IT roles while pursuing undergraduate degree in Computer Science. Maintained Novell Network Server, Windows NT Server, and Netscape Web Server and related applications. Analyzed and implemented enhancements on current information systems, granted user permissions. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science California State University - Fullerton, CA 1997 Skills Microsoft Windows 2012 R2 (1 year), Microsoft Windows 2008 R2 (4 years), Microsoft Windows 2003 (7 years), Windows 10 (3 years), Windows 7 (6 years), Windows Xp (9 years), Avaya (10+ years), Cisco (5 years), Microsoft Office (8 years), CAD (7 years), VMWare (1 year), Microsoft Exchange (3 years), System Administrator (10+ years), Active Directory (7 years), Powershell (Less than 1 year), System Admin, Linux (2 years), DNS Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional Additional Information Qualifications Profile  Highly analytical Network Administrator looking to leverage solid network and software applications experience, academic background, and strong business acumen into a position in Systems Analysis / Project Management.  ? Proven ability to research, evaluate, and recommend new technologies to support and enhance existing systems.  ? Demonstrated success in the installation, configuration, and administration of Netscape Web Server, MS SQL Server, Lotus Notes Domino Server, and Oracle database applications.  ? Effectively analyze systems, identify enhancement opportunities, and implement improvements.  ? Skilled trainer and project leader; able to communicate effectively with management and staff at all skill levels.    Core Competencies:  • SQL / Oracle Database Development • Network / Systems Administration • Troubleshooting & Problem Resolution  • Project Management • Systems Implementation • User Training & Support    Technical Background