DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer - Nationwide Insurance Columbus, OH Work Experience DevOps Engineer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH September 2014 to Present * Served as the team point of contact for new containers-as-a-service project, learning to support the environment as well as training team members.  * Obtained insight into the administration and deployment of the CI tool Concourse and Terraform which is utilized to deploy the EC2 instances and Helm to deploy Concourse to the Kubernetes environment  * Efforts accelerated the speed of deployment through testing environments from days to just hours.  * Delivered training resulting in costs savings and preventing the company from having to host on-site training  * Executed the adoption of a new Continuous Delivery tool, Urban Code Deploy which retired the old tool, set and new standards for deploying code to environments and assimilated DevOps on a large scale within the organization.  * Implemented templates for stability reducing incident tickets from failed deployments to near zero.  * Created Windows specific deployment templates for UrbanCode that deployed MSI and NUPKG applications, including web applications that utilize IIS/  • Generated a library of training videos, to facilitate self-service training for users of UrbanCode.  • Performed testing for an UrbanCode plugin to install Guidewire applications in WebSphere.  • Co-Authored Python application that checked for the presence of FISMA regulated users within RocketChat and created notifications of pending deactivations to maintain compliance.  • Collaborated with Team POC for proof-of-concept work with EC2/DockerEE/Kubernetes using Terraform and Helm; built a custom Kubernetes cluster specifically to address security concerns regarding Concourse-CI.  • Troubleshot to fix issues with Concourse-CI New Relic event emitter, incorporating metrics from Kube-State-Metrics for near-real time view of cluster performance.  • Coordinated efforts with internal and external auditors, providing reports and demonstrations of tools, their administration and security procedures used to prevent unauthorized access.  • Delivered proof-of-concept to auditors on tools to ensure capability of meeting auditing SOC 1/2.  • Partnered with application area, to convert existing Grails application build from Maven 2, eventually settling on Gradle as a build solution.  • Engineered custom solutions for a business area that used Filenet, to share resources between on premise and remote development area  • Provided training and support to team members for Kubernetes, Docker, Helm and Terraform.  • Administrated and maintained UrbanCode Deploy and Release, Concourse-CI, RocketChat, Nexus, Artifactory, Jenkins, and GitHub Enterprise.  • Originated and upgraded UrbanCode Deploy process templates: resource, application and component Information Systems Operator / Senior LAN Manager Ohio National Guard February 2009 to February 2015 * Served as an Army Sergeant with responsibility for a small number of enlisted soldiers  * Provided guidance and training for maintaining critical equipment that exists outside of our primary focus, such as maintenance on vehicles, and trailers.  * Delivered cross training for soldiers to ensure communications personnel were able to use all the information systems, as most were only trained as Radio/Telephone Operators.  * Coached soldiers on the importance of situational awareness and the details of security clearances due to the fact many aspects of day-to-day activities cannot be discussed in public.  * Co-Authored and led a training class for the entire brigade including senior officers, focusing on the proper handling and use of a standard M-16 rifle and M-9 pistol.  * Participated in annual training and worked with a consultant from another unit, leading efforts to upgrade from Windows 2003 R2 to Windows 2008 Enterprise.  * Co-Opted with senior NCO to create a custom 32-bit Windows 7 image to support our software stack to overcome software issues arising from laptops built using IA-64 based CPUs.  * Spearheaded an effort to image, configure and deploy 70+ workstations to the SIPRnet network, achieving 99% compliance in under 72 hours.  * Designed and deployed physical network infrastructure, terminated cable, set switches and trunks, and managed VOIP phones.  * Designed, maintained and operated essential computer systems, radio and telephone equipment that handle troop movement and event tracking.  * Led an effort to configure and deploy our Battle Command and Control System (BCCS) - a complete enterprise solution designed to be rapidly deployable and function as a mobile data center for the unit and subordinate units.  * Provided enterprise quality services such as file sharing, print management, email, SharePoint access and desktop/user support and training.  * Configured and implemented Active Directory services for authentication and data integrity. Systems Administrator Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) July 2012 to September 2014 July 2012-September 2014  Systems Administrator  * Administrated and supported RHEL, Solaris, HP-UX, ESX, ESXi and Windows systems in a 24/7 environment.  * Audited and hardened server operating systems following the DISA Security Template Integration Guide.  * Extensively researched various system vulnerabilities identified by Retina and the associated CVE's.  * Collaborated with Tier 3 application teams and storage teams to ensure application compliance, integrity and availability; managed users in LDAP and Active Directory.  * Addressed alerts in Novel Operations Center and assisted application owners in troubleshooting system issues.  * Authored technical documentation and trained both new associates and new project members.  * Built and configured new systems as part of several refresh projects (RHEL 6.2 and Windows 2008 R2).  * Migrated virtual servers to the disaster recovery environment and worked with application owners and network technicians to troubleshoot any issues as they arose.  * Automated auditing and administration tasks via Powershell or Bash scripts.  * Created or fixed routine and custom jobs in BMC BladeLogic to aid in the automation of various tasks including automated system auditing and core tool set installation.  * Implemented a process to address the manual audit with a nearly 10% failure rate, both false positive and false negative and an average time to complete manual audit of 18 hours per server.  * Developed a Powershell script that would mount selected registry hives and set the correct, secure value for more than 100 registry keys.  * Completed the audit of all registry entries in less than a minute - as opposed to the 4 -5 hours it previously took.  * Reduced the risk of potentially changing a value within registry that could damage the system.  * Utilized Bash scripts for Linux servers that automated some of the audit checks and dramatically reduced the overall time to complete and audit, as well as establish a standard format for the files on the servers. Skills Docker, Jenkins, Python, Websphere, Network operations, Migrations, Linux, Training, Engineer, Operations management, Auditing, Nexus, Compliance auditing, Operations, Process improvements, Devops, AWS, Git, Bash Links http://linkedin.com/in/nicholas-strojny Additional Information IT Expertise ? Infrastructure Engineer ? System Administrator  Highly dedicated and seasoned professional with extensive and diverse IT experience with expertise in navigating complex network and organizational infrastructures, evolving technologies, and security landscapes. Lead by example in setting the standards for performance and productivity, addressing challenges, and providing leadership that promotes accountability, collaboration, and enthusiasm. Maximize resources and infrastructure processes to lead successful network operations, migrations, installations, and upgrades across a multi-location user environment. Strong interpersonal and analytical skills with the ability to communicate with a diverse population at all technical skill levels.  Skills & Capabilities  Leadership * Training & Development * Process Improvements * Troubleshooting * Operations Management *AWS Kubernetes * Docker * Concourse-ci * Jenkins * GitHub Enterprise * Server System Admin * Compliance Auditing Python * Visual Build Pro * NuGet * UrbanCode * Nexus * Artifactory * WebSphere * Linux * Windows