SENIOR WORKPLACE TECHNOLOGY ENGINEER SENIOR WORKPLACE TECHNOLOGY ENGINEER SENIOR WORKPLACE TECHNOLOGY ENGINEER - FIRST REPUBLIC BANK Roslyn Heights, NY • Seeking opportunity to join a highly qualified technical team as a SCCM Engineer where my skills in SCCM infrastructure, scripting and problem solving will be enhanced and fully utilized in complement existing solutions. Work Experience SENIOR WORKPLACE TECHNOLOGY ENGINEER FIRST REPUBLIC BANK December 2016 to Present • Support escalation and daily administration of SCCM. This includes Distribution Point build, Role installations, content distribution, SCCM Report building.  • Script PowerShell SCCM distribution point build process for new PBO locations  • Automate SCCM failed content redistribution by a querying WMI provider and triggering content refresh for all failed content  • Create custom SCCM dashboards and report utilizing SQL queries and SQL report builder.  • Script PowerShell GUI to automate employee on/off boarding account creating and Active Directory group assign for Access Identity Management team.  • Integrate automatic ticket generation and closure for task conducted by offshore team. Creating custom PowerShell script to generate SMTP email to ServiceNow ticketing queue.  • Serve as Endpoint technical resource for Carbon Black, iManage deployment.  • Automate SCCM DP health report using WMI and PowerShell. Providing an overall view of SCCM overall health status and alerting on potential issue.  • Creation of SCCM configuration item and baseline to ensure compliance of security agents on endpoints.  • Created SCCM Content ID to Software name translation tool to assist in troubleshooting of application download issue experience by clients. LEAD STORE SYSTEMS ENGINEER BARNES & NOBLE April 2007 to December 2016 • Responsible for management of engineering team's day to day operation.  • Communicate with other business and IT units to accomplish projects and problem resolution.  • Serve as the top-level support personnel for support issue.  • Management of 14,000 endpoints across the entire store chain  • Engineer roll out of POSReady 7 Register and Win 8.1 terminal. Including creating scripts that automate the entire installation process from bare metal to fully usable system.  • Develop Powershell front end for support to simplify downloading of DRAC license file for mother board replacement on servers.  • Automation of all terminal deployment process across the retail chain utilizing powershell, autoit and vbscript. STORE SYSTEMS ENGINEER BARNES & NOBLE November 2013 to November 2013 - NOVEMBER 2013  • Automate Server data migration from 2003 to Server 2012.  • Scripted install of OS on bare metal machine for over 700 remote locations. Process includes building of Server 2012 as Hyper V hosts and installation of Hyper V VM.  • Implement workstation DR utilizing tftp and PXE booting. Creating custom GUI and streamlining the recovery process.  • Maintain Ghost and WIM image for all desktop systems and registers  • Scripted in powershell and autoIt for software deployment/update for all endpoint systems.  • Served as escalation lead for all support issue relating to the retail environment.  • Customize scripts for data gathering and repetitive admin task. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR FLUSHING SAVINGS BANK April 2005 to April 2007 • Deployment of WSUS, McAfee Protection Pilot and HP SIM to automate overall system management process.  • Scripting log on script with Kixscript and using VBscript to accomplish redundant administrative tasks.  • Deploy new bank branches responsibility including and not limited to desktop imaging, Server installs and Server builds.  • Administration of Active Directory domain and GPO  • Deployment of Exchange 2003 in a cluster configuration  • Enhance mobile email communication with installation of Goodlink mobile messaging and Treo devices  • Conducted upgrade of Veritas Backup Exec 9 to Symantec Backup Exec 11d  • Manage Barracuda Spam filter (Clustered) and Iprism Web filtering device  • Served as escalation point and mentor for lower Tier techs.  • Using MBSA and Nessus scanner addressing sever vulnerability. SYTEM SUPPORT ANALYST KRAMER LEVIN September 2004 to April 2005 • Responsible for scheduling and monitoring of Daily Backup job  • Tier II support for escalate support calls  • Configuration of Server, Desktop and printers  • Ensure McAfee Anti-virus definitions are up-to-date with E-policy orchestra SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR WHELANS INTERNATION March 2003 to September 2004 • Management of systems user accounts in Active Directory intergraded with Exchange environment, creating profiles for email.  • Utilizing AD to provide a secure and constant desktop environment to end users.  • Provide hardware and software support for end users and remote users including Citrix connection using VPN to other company's extranet.  • Perform and monitor daily backup of corporate database, email, and user files.  • Management of all print devices, network equipment, servers and workstations.  • Establish guideline and baselines for computer usage and security perimeters.  • Pro-active monitoring of mission critical servers and actively resolve foreseen issue to ensure maximum uptime.  • Company-wide Internet usage monitor and managing company spam filter solution.  • Documentation of application procedures, system changes, and troubleshooting procedures including server and Active Directory recovery. Education BACHELOR OF COMPUTER SCIENCE in COMPUTER SCIENCE QUEENS COLLEGE 2001