Principle CloudOps Engineer Principle CloudOps Engineer Principle CloudOps Engineer - Ketman IO Baltimore, MD A Cloud Operations Engineer with over 30 years of Linux/Unix administration and network administration in carrier grade environments with 99.999% reliability requirements, has managed teams in the US and Argentina refactoring enterprise solutions. Passions are Kubernetes, Go and Docker. Taught to value the principles of Open Source since the 70's, ironically by IBM engineers in White Plains, NY. Work Experience Principle CloudOps Engineer Ketman IO - Buenos Aires, AR September 2007 to Present Buenos Aires, Argentina  Manage outsourcing of software development and Cloud Operations, developing cloud native software and refactoring enterprise solutions to a cloud native micro-services design. In one project we saved a monolith application that had been migrated to AWS in a shift and lift migration that was not working reliably. They were attempting to migrate using ECS for orchestration, we chose Kubernetes to orchestrate Docker containers on AWS. Making small incremental changes, we began by taking some of the objects used by many parts of the application and refactoring them into micro-services. Some of my other tasks were implementing load balancers and using Ansible to automate software provisioning, configuration management, and application deployment. President Charm Net - Baltimore, MD 1993 to 2007 Founder of the first Internet Service Provider in the region. Designed and managed every aspect of carrier grade Internet services and data center. Managed an all Cisco network with BGP serving the region as well as an IXP. Among the monitoring tools we used was Nagios and WhatsUp Gold prior. Employed VMware in our data center. Provided the full range of Internet services, dns, usenet, postfix, Radius, & LDAP in an all Linux environment. Systems Administrator Delaware River Bay Authority - Lewes, DE 1992 to 1992 Executed the transition to a new toll collection system, Unix based with X.25 communications. Systems Administrator Lucent (AT&T) RTAC NE - Hunt Valley, MD 1989 to 1991 SVR4 AT&T Unix systems and Datakit Network administration for the regional technical assistance center for central offices of RBOCs in the north east region. Attended many training classes on protocol and troubleshooting of legacy telephone protocols like protocol analysis and troubleshooting of ISDN & SS7.  Technical Skills  Kubernetes, Docker, AWS Certified, Google Cloud, Azure, DNS (bind), BGP, DHCP, Postfix, MySQL, PostgreSQL, C, /C++ Go (golang), Python, Javascript, bash, Perl, Git, Ansible, Jenkins & CircleCI, Django, NodeJS, Nagios, splunk, apache, SSL, vmware, asterisk, IPTables, syslog-ng, vpn Education Associates in Liberal Arts SUNY Sullivan - Loch Sheldrake, NY 1983 to 1984 Skills DATA CENTER (10+ years), STRATEGIC PLANNING (10+ years), Linux Systems Administration (10+ years), Internet GOVERNANCE (10+ years), Kubernetes (3 years), Docker (5 years), AWS (9 years), BGP (10+ years), DHCP (10+ years), Go (3 years), Python (4 years), Ansible (2 years), Jenkins (5 years), CircleCI (5 years), Nagios (10+ years), Javascript (9 years), bash (10+ years), Perl (10+ years), dns (10+ years), Zero Trust Networks (2 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/erik-monti Additional Information Areas of Expertise  Refactoring, Cloud Native Design, Agile Methodologies, Zero Trust Networks, Telecommunications, Mesh Networking, Strategic Planning, Disaster Recovery, Data Center Design, Internet Governance, Strategic Partnerships