Enterprise Support Engineer Enterprise Support Engineer Pillager, MN Work Experience Enterprise Support Engineer November 2014 to Present Rackspace: Technical member of account team that includes Sales and Account Manager. Be on call 24 hours a day for 12 accounts with monthly recurring revenue of $600,000. Provide monthly account reviews, create network diagrams and periodic audits. Lead system deployment discussions and planning. Responsible for account satisfaction and delivery. Be the customer's liaison and advocate to Rackspace's technical teams making sure that what they are asking for is being delivered and that what they are asking for is possible and supportable. Be the escalation point if customer is down or having major technical issues for Rackspace technical teams. Linux Administrator II April 2013 to October 2014 Rackspace: Provide front line support via phone and tickets to enterprise customers with cloud and dedicated platforms. Support applications, services and protocols commonly used in hosting environments: clusters, web servers, application servers, mail servers, name servers, backup and monitoring. Provide escalation and mentoring for junior team members. Schedule and coordinate maintenances. Lead Systems Administrator Scheels All Sports August 2006 to March 2013 - Lead a team of 5 Systems Administrators and 2 Computer Support Specialists. Provide daily guidance, training and annual reviews. Provide level 2 and 3 support. Project management for small and medium sized projects.  ? Expanded web environment to include staging environment, load balancing and multiple http and application servers.  ? Installed and maintained wikis to create documentation and provide basic project management.  ? Installed and maintained ticketing systems to track issues, assist with time management and project management.  ? Implemented IBM WebSphere Portal to reduce time required for 1,700 associates to access email and calendar functions by 75%.  ? Implemented IP Telephony in ten locations to reduce overhead paging and improve customer experience.  ? Implemented Tivoli Storage Manager to centralize backups and improve reliability. Systems Administrator Scheels All Sports May 2002 to August 2006 - Deploy PCs, thin clients and printers to 24 locations. Maintained network infrastructure. Provide level 1 and 2 support. Design, install and manage new systems. Develop scripts to automate processes and build new functionality. Migrated from a simple hosted web site to two environments and three tiers using IBM IHS, WebSphere Commerce Express and DB2.  ? Implemented base infrastructure needed to grow the business: Active Directory, centralized DHCP server, file server, proxy, desktop anti virus, spam filter, NTP.  ? Designed and implemented centralized log server to reduce time to troubleshoot issues and find small problems before they become big issues.  ? Created proactive monitoring to alert staff about impending issues.  ? Planned and moved data center twice, on time and with minimal down time. Accounting Clerk United States Marine Corps February 1995 to February 1999 Supervised seven Marines.  ? Awarded Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal.  ? Reduced end of month procedure from 2 days to 4 hours. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science North Dakota State University 2002 Skills Cgi, Tomcat, Websphere, Iscsi, Netapp, Nfs, Tivoli storage manager, Cisco, Fiber channel, Firewalls, Tivoli, Apache, Linux, Radius, Remote access, Tacacs, Vmware, Vpn, Db2, Perl Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Server and Software Packages:  ? Apache, MySQL, Perl, CGI, Bash, Postfix, Python, RHCS, Redmine, Squid, Samba, Subversion, git.  ? DB2, Websphere, Tomcat, Tivoli Storage Manager.  ? VMWare, PowerVM, KVM, VirtualBox.  ? Software support, debugging and finding issues.  Hardware:  ? Dell Servers.  ? NetApp SAN, NFS, iSCSI, Fiber Channel.  ? HP Servers.  ? IBM Blade Centers.  Operating Systems:  ? Linux: RedHat, Centos, Debian, Ubuntu, Suse.  Network:  ? Cisco switches, routers and firewalls.  ? Site to Site VPN, Remote Access VPN, VLANs, Access Lists, TACACS+, RADIUS.  ? BigIP F5 and Brocade Load Balancers.