SAP Basis Administrator SAP Basis <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SAP Basis Administrator Escondido, CA Experienced IT professional who is a certified MCSE supporting SAP Basis. Expertise also includes Windows System Administrator duties coupled with Windows\SQL Servers, VMWare, Networking, Printers, and End User support. Is known as a technically outstanding SAP troubleshooter who is a highly motivated self-starter with excellent interpersonal and customer facing skills and an uncanny ability to quickly identify technical systems issues and develop solutions for a variety of complex technical problems. Works independently with excellent interpersonal skills and able to make quick decisions. Collaborate with others to resolve SAP transport management system issues, performance tuning options, and comply with government regulations when applicable. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SAP Basis Administrator Cobham Defense & Electronics June 2011 to March 2019 Reporting to the Senior Business Systems Manager, served as SAP Basis Administrator at Cobham Defense and Electronics. Daily tasks included moving transports, daily system checks, analyzing errors and performance, creating and scheduling batch jobs, creating users and roles and managing printers. In addition, managed many aspects of the peripheral systems such as the SQL data base host, Vertex, and the print servers; applying the system monthly Microsoft updates to updating the applications and maintaining the databases. Implemented system configuration changes as needed. Owned all aspects of the SAP and collaborated with Developers, Business Analysts, etc. to effectively resolve any issues. Key accomplishments include:  ? Optimized SAP server settings in VMware resulting in substantial performance improvement.  ? Configured stockroom users to use SAPCONSOLE with wireless handheld scanners and wireless printers streamlining their kitting processes.  ? Mitigated SAP server environment securing servers access to a very specific set of IP's and Ports to secure the landscape.  ? Configured a SQL backup strategy to better ensure rapid Disaster Recovery in very short time with little or no loss of data. SAP Basis Administrator/ Systems Administrator En Pointe Technologies April 1998 to June 2011 Reporting to our IT Manager, responsible for a broad range of duties including Desktop support, Server support, and Networking. With the implementation of SAP co-collaborated with the SAP team to execute on the engagement. After go-live, increased SAP responsibilities resulting in having primary leadership; which included the creation and implementation of SAP security roles based on job functions among the many departments to comply with SOX requirements. Another was to virtualize our SAP landscape on VMware to reduce overall costs while providing rapid disaster recovery and improved performance. In addition to daily SAP duties, key duties included supporting and assisting SAP Developers, Help Desk, IT Personnel, and End Users at all levels ranging from User Desktops to Production servers and the applications running on these servers including the 3rd party applications that communicate with SAP such as EDI, SMTP, Vertex tax, Print servers, Paymetric, and Veritas; as well as, managing Datacenter Operations which included over 100 servers before they were virtualized.  • Co-collaborated with others to setup and populate with new servers a new on-site Data Center of approximately 2000 sq. ft.  • Created and implemented SAP composite user roles designed to ensure compliance with SOX (Sarbanes-Oxley) guidelines.  • Converted systems from physical servers to virtual reducing overall costs while providing rapid disaster recovery ability and improved performance. PC Technician GE Capital December 1997 to April 1998 Reporting to Service lead, processed user tickets for Workstation and Printer issues. Education MCSE Chaffey College - Rancho Cucamonga, CA Skills Erp, Sap, Disaster recovery, Active directory, Storage management, Microsoft Office (10+ years), Windows Servers (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), Help Desk Support (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Printers (10+ years), Application Support (10+ years), Disaster Recovery (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/bill-scott-99694742 Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  • SAP Administration  • SAP ECC 6  • SAP 4.7  • ERP  • Application support  • SAP Security  • SAP Monitoring  • Performance Tuning  • Windows Servers  • Windows server maintenance    • Printers  • Disaster Recovery  • Troubleshooting  • Data Center Operations  • Application Support  • Customer Service  • Server and WS support    • SQL Server  • SAP Database  • VMWare  • Self-Motivated  • Detail Oriented  • Active Directory  • Storage Management  • Help Desk Support