HP Server Automation Specialist HP Server Automation Specialist HP Server Automation Specialist Reedsburg, WI Technical Professional with experience in technical support, remote troubleshooting, network administration, Storage, HP Server Automation, and VMware.. Strengths include remote server administration and server setups that ensure efficient operations. Recognized for relationship development and documentation skills that contributes to consistent business practices. Expertise includes::    Internet: HTTP. TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, NIS, LDAP, Apache Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience HP Server Automation Specialist Hewlett Packard September 2013 to November 2016 Server Automation Build Engineer: Design, document and built account specific HPSA Satellites. Coordinate with network and Firewall Engineers to open ports necessary for communication with cores to account satellites. Engage in troubleshooting efforts to ensure ports are open for successful implementation of the HPSA Satellite.    • Point of contact for troubleshooting and all technical related questions and issues.    • Trained new Employees - assisted them with documentation, design and implementation.    • Designed system architecture for numerous HPSA Satellites globally (Americas, Asia Pacific, EMEA) over multiple meshes.    • Worked on the Hardware refresh project to replace "End Of Life" hardware and upgrade Linux OS and HPSA Version.    • Upgrade HPSA Satellites globally from HPSA Version 9.16 to HPSA Version 10.20.    • Assisted with numerous patch rollups to all Satellites globally.    • Worked on software refresh project to upgrade systems to RHEL6.x and HPSA Version 10.20 as RHEL5.x is "End Of Life"    • Ensured that all documentations was accurate and complete and posted to the QMS SharePoint.. Systems Administrator WPS Health Insurance - Madison, WI May 2013 to August 2013 Linux patching and vulnerability testing for audit. Updating processes and procedures. Systems Administrator NOKIA 2010 to 2013 Implemented, installed, maintained, and upgraded Linux based HP Server Automation multi-master mesh from 9.03 to 9.06. System was used to install Operating Systems, upgrade, patch, and inventory over 5,000 servers company wide.  • Created installation procedure and check list for over 40 servers, providing patches, snapshots and upgrades that improved operating system efficiency. Project was completed within deadline with no service interruption.  • Developed methods to track and document all installment project phases, including equipment orders, IP address, security patches and automation software. Conducted troubleshooting to expedite installation processes and ensure continuous operations.  • Handled all aspects of Sharepoint webpage upgrade, including document transfer, link testing, and design changes to expedite access to information needed by users and teams.  • Managed all set up of satellite and universal servers for new Denmark facility, developing custom attributes for installations that resulted in increased efficiency and reduced costs. Systems Administrator NOKIA - Dallas, TX 1999 to 2013 Global company based in Finland with a mission of connecting people through mobile phones. Systems Administrator NOKIA 2004 to 2010 Systems administrator, responsible for new installations. LDAP, PXE, NIS, VMware, Exceed on Demand and, samba. Netapp administrator responsible for volume setup, dedupe, snapvault and snapmirrors. Installed and configured new Netapp Filer. Upgrade to latest version of DataOnTap on all filers.  • Assessed user information and removed/archived obsolete shares, performing filer setup and accessibility permission that resulted in successful data transfer and increased data storage space.  • Performed server backup administration for over one terabyte of data through use of commvault software application, ensuring compliance with disaster recovery procedures. Systems Administrator NOKIA - Dallas, TX 1999 to 2004 Prior to 1999  Global semiconductor design and manufacturing company.    User Support  Responsible for providing desktop hardware/software support for over 500 users. Installed desktops, printers and handled maintenance to support TI990/960, Diablo disk packs, Pertec Tape Drives and Printronics Printers. Education AAS in Electronics Madison Area Technical College - Madison, WI Additional Information Operating Systems: UNIX, Red Hat Enterprise versions 5,6 and 7, Windows  2008, 2012     Software: HP Server Automation, Microsoft Office, VMware, SharePoint, Dedupe, Vol create, Cifs Create, Snap Mirror, Snap Vault, Samba rsync    Networks: Network Set-Up, Network Maintenance, LAN, WAN