Network Engineer Network Engineer Systems Engineer/Incident Manager Atlanta, GA Self-motivated, innovative, and goal-oriented IT Professional committed to on-time delivery of all  tasks and process improvements. Dedicated team player and leader willing to go beyond standards  to ensure productivity and service levels are met continuously. Work Experience Network Engineer Virtualization - Atlanta, GA April 2017 to Present Developed secure solutions for various agencies to support modernization of infrastructure for logging, monitoring, and application monitoring using various tools such as Solarwinds and Splunk.  Supported hardening efforts for department projects utilizing DSC and GPO implementations.  Engineered Atlassian products including Jira, Confluence, Bitbucket, and Crowd for agency  collaboration utilizing SSO. Created test cases for engineering proof of concepts. Provided support for Equipment Lifecycle Analysis to aid future acquisitions and procurement for various customer  projects. Supported pilot special training project for engineering newcomers into program division.  Worked special project to engineer solution to customer with minimal end-user compute  requirements utilizing PCoIP and advance graphic rendering. Systems Administrator Noblis ESI - Robins AFB, GA March 2015 to April 2017 Provided engineering support between customer and OEM/Vendors to resolve problems and deficiencies for solutions in which technical requirements were not met. Followed internal  procedures for change management, incident management and escalation. Administered network  user accounts and roles in accordance to access control policies to prevent rogue users and insider  attacks. Developed business workflows for new process implementation to improve efficiency and accountability in external/internal audits, evaluations, & process improvements. Assisted in service  improvement plans that optimized the cost of IT Services while taking into account, quality and risk  factors. Implemented and performed privileged access reviews, compliance reporting, access control  processes/workflows other AM related business processes via Oracle Waveset, Active Directory, and LDAP. Systems Engineer/ Administrator Sotera Defense Solutions, Inc - Augusta, GA July 2014 to March 2015 Installed software, modified and repaired hardware and resolved technical issues in accordance to ITIL Framework. Created users accounts using various self-authored templates and monitored user  rights to these accounts on a converged infrastructure comprised of 31 virtual environments using  Windows 7, ESXi 5, Red Hat, and Server 2008 R2. Administered virtual sessions through VMWare's  Horizon View and assisted high availability through auditing user sessions. Ensured continued replication to remote sites using Putty, VSphere, and Remote Desktop Protocol. Support communications  (Exchange 2007) & connections solutions, including workstation connectivity, local area networks,  intranet, & Internet applications. Served as Trusted Agent for Common Access Card issuance and PIN  resets. Perform daily server maintenance on all critical servers throughout the enterprise. Windows 7 Technician Dell Prime - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to June 2014 Served as Team Lead for system deployments and quality assurance for 14 sites operating under the State of Georgia. Maintained balanced workflow and monitored execution to ensure on time completion of  each site according to project guidelines. Installation, upgrade, and configured Laptops and Desktops with MS Windows 7 Operating System to the State Offices of Georgia including DHS, DOR, GBI, DFCS,  DDS, DMV, GDOL, SoS, DCSS, and GDOC. Provided resolutions to any post-deployment issues found after Windows 7 OS upgrade. Ensured optimal customer service to customers and end-users to aid  stake holding. Provided Server and Desktop services, Help Desk, troubleshooting, and software  imaging for clients. Performed data recovery on inoperable hard drives, image rebuilds using LiteTouch  software and unattended rapid deploy install processes, installed and configured all required DHS  software and updates. Installed, upgraded configured, and supported all DHS software applications  including Novell, GroupWise, GroupWise Messenger, Access 2010, GoScreen, Document Direct, and Visio. Unemployed Unemployed - Atlanta, GA September 2012 to March 2014 This gap in employment history is due to my attempt to start a business. System Administrator U.S. Navy - Augusta, GA May 2005 to September 2012 Uses Remedy to monitor incident, problem and change management tickets. Managed over 2000  accounts in Active Directory (AD) as well as Microsoft Exchange Monitored and swapped out tapes  weekly for the system server backups for all networks. Installed software, modified and repaired  hardware and resolved technical issues. Provided base level IT support to non-technical personnel within the organization. Provided support with installation and configuration for backup servers for all  four main networks. Identified and solved technical issues with a variety of diagnostic tools.  Coordinated scheduled outages through the Agency's configuration and change management  process. Specialist Agricultural Technical Supp - Valley, GA, US May 2010 to May 2012 Setup, maintained, and troubleshoot end user workstations and interrelated hardware and software.  Installation, upgrade, configure, and deployment of Windows XP, Vista, 7, and MS Office suites.  Provided base level IT supports to non-technical personnel within the business Managed call flow and responded to technical support needs of customers. Identified and solved technical issues with a  variety of diagnostic tools One year of experience creating, editing, and maintaining databases using  MYSQL Provide setup, maintenance, and troubleshooting / repair of desktop / laptop computer  hardware, software, peripherals (printer, copier, scanner), PDAs, and mobile phones. Education Graduate Certificate of Science in Information Security Keller Graduate School of Management October 2016 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Fort Valley State University - Fort Valley, GA May 2012 Skills System administration, Tcp/ip, Virtualization, Remote access, Tcp, Linux, Process development, Incident management, Security, Exchange, Active Directory, Cisco, Vmware, Vmware, Security, DNS, SQL, Exchange, VPN, firewalls, Cisco Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-6 Additional Information Skills  • System Administration • Virtualization  • Windows and Linux • Remote Access Technologies  • Skilled in TCP/IP and WAN • Cybersecurity & Info Assurance  • Atlassian Products • Incident Management  • Service Management  • Process Development