Information Security specialist/Desktop Support Specialist Information Security specialist/Desktop Support Specialist Information Security specialist/Desktop Support Specialist - Olathe Medical Center Shawnee, KS Systems Administrator with several years aligning business systems with business policies and guidelines. Looking to bring strong analytical and problem-solving skills to the workplace. Work Experience Information Security specialist/Desktop Support Specialist Olathe Medical Center - Olathe, KS 2013 to Present • Develops, implements, and manages activities related to the organization's Information Security and Identity Management programs and compliance with HIPAA and JCAHO standards.  • Responsible for User Account Provisioning, develops and maintains Role Based Access tables, conducts system and User-ID audits, risk and vulnerability assessments. Participate in the development and maintenance of policies and procedures.  • Other areas of responsibilities include personnel training.  • Participates in security incident investigation and resolving information security complaints.  • Participate in the design, implementation and enhancement of system security to assure the integrity of proprietary data, systems, information and other intellectual property.  • Install, maintain, secure, troubleshoot, configure and support PCs, printers, scanners, and other end-user devices along with their network connections in a Health Care environment.  • Provide desktop application support.  • Maintain PC and printer management software. Standardized PC image creation and deployment and distributed software installation.  • Plan and design PC and printer solutions for new projects.  • Member of Olathe Health Team Council  • Kansas City Corporate Challenge Coordinator IT Specialist/Network Administrator City of Gardner - Gardner, KS 2006 to 2013 • Administer 12-15 Windows servers and more than 145 PCs and approximately 125 users.  • Administer point-to-point wireless and DSL connection to other city sites, including the Waste water, Water, Electric, Park, Municipal court and Police departments.  • Install, configure and manage network, servers, routers, switches and firewall appliances.  • Perform incremental, differential and full backup using Backup Exec and Acronis.  • Managed the fiber project connecting 10 city sites with the City Hall.  • Managed the conversion of physical servers to Virtual servers.  • Managed the conversion of phone system from Nortel to Avaya VOIP and administer the Avaya VOIP phone system at the City Hall and other sites.  • Manages the Software licensing.  • Manages the maintenance and development of network.  • Manages the Email using exchange server 2003.  • Worked with outside agencies including State and County in setting up Video Arraignment, Alert system and Electronic Conviction Records for the Municipal Court.    XENOTECH.LLC, Lenexa, KS Systems Administrator 2004 to 2006 • Provided Network Administration functions for 22 Windows Servers and 160 workstations while supporting 30 applications.  • Installed, configured and managed several Lab system applications such as PE Sciex Analyst, Waters Millennium, KC4 signature, Excel Fit, Excel Stat and other applications  • Installed new software releases and system upgrades.  • Evaluated and installed patches and resolved software related problems..  • Supported and maintained user account information including rights, security and systems groups (Active Directory).  • Document, maintain, upgrade or replaces hardware and software systems.  • Performed system backup and recovery. (Full, differential, incremental and daily)  • Provided help desk functions such as providing support to XenoTech end users on a variety of issues, identifying, researching, and resolving technical problems. Responded to telephone calls, email and personnel requests for technical support. Tracked and monitored the problem to insure resolution.  • Provided 24/7 response to issues and network problems.  • Kansas City Corporate Challenge Coordinator. Systems Administrator (IT Manager) AAI DEVELOPMENT SERVICES - Shawnee, KS 2001 to 2004 • Supervised technical support operations in high-volume, 24/7 environments.  • Supervised the technical support team and coordinated technical issues involving applications, network and hardware.  • Environment included Windows NT/2000 Server, Windows 9x/NT/2000 desktops, Novell, Microsoft Office 97/2000/2003, Crystal Reports and Microsoft Project 2000/2003.  • Oversaw network connectivity, implementation, integration, and troubleshooting for servers, routers, remote access, storage devices, printers, and scanners for Pharmaceutical industry.  • Managed the installation and maintenance of Waters Millennium 32, PE Sciex Analyst, KC4 Signature and Agilent Chemstation software.  • Performed Computer System validations for the above and other applications, meeting 21 CFR Part 11 compliance requirements for secure computer generated audit trails.  • Used the Backup Exec to backup-and restore data, and wrote the disaster recovery plan.  • Alternate Chemical Hygiene Officer. Evaluated hazardous chemicals using MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheets) and vendor information to ensure employee safety.  • Kansas City Corporate Challenge Coordinator. Education Bachelor of Science in chemistry KERALA UNIVERSITY Bachelor of Science in Technical Management in Technical Management DeVRY UNIVERSITY - Kansas City, MO Associate of Applied Science in Electronics Engineering Technology in Electronics Engineering Technology JOHNSON COUNTY COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Overland Park, KS