Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator San Antonio, TX Experienced Windows Systems Engineer and Administrator   More than 20 years’ experience in systems engineering and administration in the public and private sectors with a broad background of technical experience. Possess expertise in enterprise systems like data center management, storage systems including NetApp, server hardware from Dell, HP, and IBM, Cisco UCS, enterprise applications and virtualization with VMware, and cloud. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator US Army EUCOM/AFRICOM (Contractor-GDIT) - Stuttgart, DE October 2018 to Present Hired to provide Tier II and Tier III troubleshooting and problem resolution for classified and unclassified EUCOM, AFRICOM and Coalition networks. Manage and deploy Microsoft Active Directory (AD) server operating system technologies including Windows Server 2008 R2, 2012 R2 and 2016 in a geographically distributed environment. Manage enterprise AD forests, domain controllers, terminal services servers, AD DNS, GPOs, and DHCP.  • Responsible for maintaining, analyzing, troubleshooting, repairing, and supporting Microsoft 2012 and 2016 Servers and software for multiple projects.  • Worked closely with network, engineering, and development teams to provide guidance on both hardware and software.  • Provide automation using PowerShell and various AD management tools.  • Monitor availability and performance of systems.  • Manage Group Policy Object, Sites and Services and other AD related functions.  • Manage and maintain physical and VMWare ESXi virtual servers.  • Upgrade systems with new releases and models.  • Support special projects for enduring systems and short-term engagements.  • Coordinated with and supported efforts of vendors in implementing new systems and troubleshooting.  • Provided after hours on-call support.  • Applied and maintained DISA STIG configurations to Microsoft products using SCAP and STIG Viewer. Senior Systems Administrator Defense Health Agency (DHA) (Contractor-ECS Federal) - San Antonio, TX May 2018 to October 2018 Hired to provide expertise on the implementation and administration for the worldwide DHA Microsoft Windows Active Directory environment. To assist and provide expertise in the following areas: the implementation and maintenance/troubleshooting of large-scale enterprise implementations of AD based on Windows Server and the migration of Windows Domain Controllers.  • Manage Active Directory Sites and Services to include site creation, site links, subnets, and management of over 260 sites, 430 site links and 3600 subnets spread around the world.  • Assist in troubleshooting AD authentication, Microsoft DHCP, and Microsoft DNS problems for a domain supporting over 400,000 users and 190 domain controllers.  • Managing Windows Server 2008R2, 2012R2, and 2016.  • Create, manage and deploy GPOs as well as deploy DHCP Servers.  • Provide all Tier levels of remediation, identify, troubleshoot and resolve hardware, software and network related problems experienced by end users in a multi-site network.  • Collaborate with senior engineers and program leads to ensure optimal operations of all systems, documentation and inventory.  • Use of PowerShell for managing Active Directory, exporting data. Senior Multi-Disciplined Engineer II Raytheon (Contractor-22nd Century Technologies) - Dallas, TX July 2017 to February 2018 Hired as a contract systems engineer and administrator to manage multiple classified defense manufacturing and testing domains.  • Environment includes multiple Active Directory domains comprised of Windows 2000, 2003, 2008 R2, 2012 servers and Windows XP, 7, and 10 workstations.  • Created and implemented plans for system state backup and other types depending on requirements.  • Created and implemented plans for patch management for multiple closed network AD domains using export and import WSUS server.  • Support for COTS software and custom applications.  • Managed VMWare ESXi 6.x and Hyper-V environments in multiple closed networks.  • Managed upgrades to all VMWare host hardware  • Managed and performed regular updates to Microsoft, Symantec, and ClamAV antivirus software  • Supported a wide array of specialized testing equipment and related software. Cloud Support Engineer II AWS (Amazon Web Services) - Dallas, TX May 2016 to April 2017 Hired as a Windows cloud support engineer to provide all levels of support for AWS services as well as deep technical support for Microsoft technologies.  • Provided engineering support for a wide array of AWS cloud services to include VPC, AMI, EC2 Windows, EBS, S3, SES, Security Groups, Route 53, WorkSpaces, Instances, Snapshots, EIP, Load Balancer, Route Table, NAT Gateway, ACL, VPN, AD Connector, and other AWS and Microsoft technology.  • Assisted customers from very small to large enterprise using email, chat, and phone covering a wide array of Windows systems administration and engineering at all levels of technical complexity.  • Troubleshoot application deployments, recreate customer issues, and build proof of concept applications.  • Apply advanced troubleshooting techniques to provide unique solutions to our customers' individual needs.  • Worked within a global support team covering 24x7x365 cloud operations. Systems Engineer/ Administrator The George C Marshall European Center for Security Studies (US Federal Employee) - Garmisch-Partenkirchen, DE April 2013 to April 2016 Hired as sole systems engineer and administrator to manage all aspects of a data center supporting more than 50 Windows physical and virtual servers, appliances, and applications that supported more than 250 users.  • Planned, installed, and configured OS, applications, rack and blade servers, network hardware, virtual and physical appliances.  • Worked with manufacturers and vendors in extensive research of existing and new technology.  • Analyzed customer IT requirements to determine optimal hardware and software options and solutions.  • Created and maintained extensive documentation for network and server hardware, software, and Cisco.  • Planned and implemented the DR/COOP site. Included Cisco UCS compute, NetApp storage, and the upgrade of HVAC and UPS.  • Managed VMware ESXi 5.x/6.x on 16 Cisco UCS B200 M3 and M4 blades. Employed templates, host profiles, vMotion, HA and DRS.  • Designed and implemented complete AD OU reorganization following best practices. Organized OUs to match the organizational structure to better target group policy and improve security. Targeted GPOs based upon OU, computer name, and WMI filter.  • Led project for SCCM 2012 R2. Leveraged RBAC and tightly controlled admin groups based on specific tasks like application packaging, OS imaging, OSD. Relied on scopes and collections to mitigate large-scale errors in task sequences. Utilized MDT to capture VMware OS reference images.  • Implemented new backup solution and strategy by replaced Quantum i80 with i500 library. Required to support increase in NetApp storage capacity.  • Re-engineered all GPOs. Created GPOs based on primary function like power plans or security settings for a particular OS.  • Upgraded production NetApp 2240-2 to model FAS8020 and converted from 7-Mode to cDOT. Added 250TB storage for virtualization and CIFS shares. Transitioned data stores from iSCSI to NFS.  • Designed dual Nexus 5548 switches for redundancy in the data center.  • Engineered expansion of Cisco ISE 2.x to replace port security with 802.1x and Posturing to integrate with SCCM and ePO.  • Assisted in management of Cisco ASA 5512 Firewall and email and web proxy Ironports.  • Engineered and installed Cisco UCS 5108 chassis and blades for production and DR sites to replace Dell servers.  • During the search for a network administrator, I managed 50 Cisco 3850 and 3750 switches in more than 12 buildings.  • Implemented Dell Active Administrator for Active Directory permissions, Dell Certificate Manager to monitor server certificates, Security Explorer to simplify management of file and folder permissions. Windows Systems Administrator Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) (US Federal Employee) November 2009 to April 2011 Member of a team of 16 Windows systems administrators responsible for administration of over 400 Windows 2000, 2003, and 2008 physical and virtual NIPR and SIPR servers hosted in multiple locations in the US. Responsible for installing, tuning, monitoring, updating, and backup of application, web, and database Windows servers for Air Force, DOD, and other government agency programs.  • Routinely work with nationwide teams on new and existing projects covering design, implementation, and maintenance.  • Involved in the migration of lists and libraries from SharePoint Services 3 to DISA DEPS SharePoint 2010 using Quest web parts and SharePoint Designer. Designed and developed a SharePoint 2010 list to track critical incidents.  • Configure and administer network backup appliances and software.  • Led project team to consolidate several Excel spreadsheets of more than 400 Windows servers into a SharePoint list. Documented critical information on each server to aid in disaster recovery.  • Project member involved in implementing PaaS (Platform as a Service) environment known as STAX. Duties involved installation, configuration, and ongoing maintenance coordinated with local and national team members from storage, network, security, and project management groups.  • Perform monitoring, troubleshooting, problem resolution, and change management for HP blade and standalone servers and Dell servers. Perform firmware upgrades.  • Coordinate server administration with program managers (PMO), functional managers, incident management, service desk, security and infosec.  • Managed VMware virtual environment with vSphere Client.  • Remediate IAVA security findings identified by the security group utilizing tools such as Blade Logic and WSUS.  • Work closely with customers and team members to install updates, patches, and service packs.  • Implement and manage Active Directory group policies. Systems Engineer/ Administrator US Department of Defense - Mannheim, DE January 2008 to November 2009 Hired as systems engineer of a data center managing more than 30 Windows servers supporting a user population greater than 600.  • Managed projects for procurement of VTL (virtual tape library) storage systems, SCCM implementation.  • Integrated new NetApp Filer into the data center to replace an aging IBM SAN. With the new Filer we expanded our organizations storage capacity from 5TB to 30TB as well as greatly improved performance and reliability.  • Maintained MSCS SAN attached clusters for file servers and Microsoft SQL Server hosting SharePoint 2003 sites.  • Installed and managed a Microsoft Project 2007 server running on SQL 2005 database.  • Managed a campus wide Aruba wireless network with more than 50 access points and air monitors.  • Managed antivirus services for the computers and servers using McAfee ePO for more than 600 clients.  • Active Directory OU management, server patching, and server management.  • Ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of systems, networks, and data through the planning, analysis, development, implementation, maintenance, and enhancement of information systems security programs, policies, procedures, and tools.  • Developed systems security contingency plans and disaster recovery procedures.  • Managed accounts and permissions to network resources.    The Atlanta Journal Constitution IT Project Manager/ Systems Engineer/ Systems Administrator The Atlanta Journal Constitution - Atlanta, GA July 2006 to January 2008 Hired as a project manager and systems administrator. Responsible for identification of customer requirements; analysis of information systems requirements; purchasing or contracting for IT services, equipment, products, supplies and other items; ensuring the optimal use of commercially available products; development of testing strategies, plans, or scenarios.  • Planned, managed, directed and carried out large-scale complex IT projects ranging from multi-million dollar proprietary newspaper systems to SQL server and SharePoint.  • IT Project manager for multiple SQL 2005 Reporting Services projects. Consolidated data stored in various databases on different platforms was made accessible through web based reports and ad-hoc web reports. Reduced report delivery from days to minutes and in some cases in real time.  • Directed the activities of two software developers in SharePoint and reporting projects.  • Utilized Microsoft SQL Server Report Builder and SSIS to deliver controlled datasets to end users that allowed them to create ad-hoc reports on the fly.  • Managed projects involving SharePoint. Developed workflow applications to eliminate human order entry errors saving the company thousands of dollars per order.  • Managed and directed the re-engineering of the entire infrastructure of an application that was responsible for more than 120 million dollars in annual revenue. This upgrade greatly improved end user productivity and system reliability by replacing the single server with a three server replicated farm. Systems Engineer/ Administrator US Department of Defense - Mannheim, DE September 2002 to May 2006 Hired as team lead of 4 Windows systems administrators in managing a small data center of 30 servers, IBM SAN storage, backup systems, fibre channel, and Ethernet network infrastructure supporting 600 users.  • Managed and directed major technology improvements in all areas and on all systems within the data center to increase uptime to greater than 99.9%.  • Managed site of four Exchange 5.5 servers including backup and restore of mailboxes.  • Managed five terabyte IBM FastT500 SAN that supported a SQL Server 2000 cluster, file server cluster, and Sun 450 server.  • Managed IBM 3583 robotic tape library with six fibre channel LTO2 tape drives that were FC SAN attached.  • Planned and implemented the upgrade of the tape library from the original pair of SCSI LTO drives to six fibre channel LTO2 drives improving backup time from more than 40 hours to less than 8.  • Planned and executed the migration of more than 600 users and computers to Active Directory.  • Migrated more than 25 Windows servers into Active Directory. The migration included a pair of clustered SQL Server 2000 servers, a pair of clustered file servers, and an Outlook Web Access.  • Implemented and managed McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator to centrally manage antivirus updates to more than 800 computers and servers.  • Managed Citrix MetaFrame XP 4-server farm supporting more than 100 IBM Windows Embedded XP thin clients.  • Responsible for general day-to-day network administration to include DHCP, WINS, Ethernet switches, and fiber channel switches.  • Implement and manage Active Directory group policies for granular management of network resources. Utilize tools like gpresult to display the resultant set of policy (RSoP) information for remote users and computers to help identify group policy issues. Systems Administrator Peachtree Software - Atlanta, GA 2001 to 2002 IT Manager/ Systems Admin The Georgia Society of CPAs - Atlanta, GA 1997 to 2001 Systems Engineer Systems Atlanta - Atlanta, GA 1995 to 1997 Field Service Group Coordinator LXE Inc (Wireless) - Atlanta, GA 1993 to 1995 Education High School Diploma Paxon Sr High School Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-4 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft 2016 Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) July 2019 to Present CompTIA Security+ CE May 2017 to February 2024 CompTIA Advanced Security Practitioner (CASP) CE February 2018 to February 2024 Additional Information • Server OS - Windows NT through all of the most recent to include Windows Server 2016, 2012 R2, 2008 R2.  • Desktop OS - Most Microsoft desktop OS, Windows 10.  • Microsoft Applications - SQL Server, SCCM, WSUS, Exchange, IIS, SharePoint, Office, Project, Visio  • Microsoft Technologies - Active Directory, Group Policy Objects (GPO), MDT, MSCS, GPMC, AGPM, DHCP, DNS, PowerShell, Active Directory Sites and Services, RDP, Terminal Services  • Cloud - Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Virtual - VMware ESXi 5.x, 6.x, vCenter, limited Hyper-V  • Server Hardware - Dell, IBM, HP, Cisco  • Cisco - UCS Blades, 6229UP, 3850, 3750 switches, Nexus 5548, IronPort  • Storage - NetApp 2240, 8020, FAS3050, Clustered Data ONTAP, 7-Mode, IBM SAN, Quantum Tape Libraries, VTL  • Other Technologies - McAfee (HBSS), HIPS, BladeLogic, Remedy, Backup Exec, Net Vault, Aruba Wireless, VPN, OCSP, ILO, LTO, NIPR, SIPR, CAC, PKI, Radius, Fibre Channel, Patch Management, SCAP, DISA STIG, COTS