Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - All star General Insurance Santee, CA Work Experience Systems Engineer All star General Insurance - San Diego, CA December 2009 to July 2019 Startup Company that I designed and implemented all systems, PC's and network and continue to support. Manage 13 servers including SBS, Exchange, imaging system, SQL, web and RDS HA cluster using Citrix HA virtualization at AIS data center colocation and support 20 users remotely. IT Manager Cabrillo Pacific Insurance Services - San Diego, CA September 2007 to July 2019 Brought on to manage the infrastructure of a corporate network with 25 servers and 85 workstations by this auto and homeowner insurance provider with 85 employees and over $40 million in annual revenue. Monitor system, application and security logs and resolve all issues. Keep antivirus software and system software up to date by maintaining servers for updates and pushing out updates to workstations. Design and build new servers for projects, migrations and consolidations. Maintain a backup domain test lab. Perform regular system maintenance.  IT Manager )  • Saved 10 minutes of filtering spam per day per employee and minimized spam emails to just 1% of total email traffic by designing and implementing a Exchange 2007 server capable of blocking spam externally.  • Replaced 15 workstations running GoToMyPC accounts with one Terminal Server for remote employees.  • Reduced ISP wait time due to DNS changes by designing and implementing an external DNS Name server.  • Established the first disaster recovery plan for critical servers that cost less than $3,000 and instilled confidence among vendors using VMware to virtually recover critical servers after a disaster strikes. Systems Administrator Corporate Technologies - San Diego, CA November 2006 to June 2007 Joined this IT outsourcing company with 200 employees operating in three states to manage systems across 15 companies with approximately 25 workstations and servers combined. Provided remote and onsite support for more than 100 customers throughout San Diego County. Troubleshot log discrepancies and server issues. Monitored disk usage and antivirus records. Created and maintained user accounts and managed server rights for file shares. Purchased new hardware and software.  • Designed and implemented Active Directory infrastructure for small companies, installing, repairing and maintaining Small Business Servers and creating login authentication and Exchange servers. Systems Administrator Acceris Communications August 2000 to November 2006 Promoted by this telecommunications company with over 680 employees to maintain more than 100 servers. Upgraded outdated servers and built new ones. Repaired and purchased hardware. Controlled user accounts and access rights. Performed disaster recovery and backups. Managed mass storage and storage area network systems holding more than 15 terabytes. Administered Microsoft Exchange and IIS servers including email access, distribution lists, antivirus solutions, network resource sharing and Active Directory infrastructure.  • Undertook the major task of upgrading servers from Windows NT 4.0 to Windows Server 2003 domains.  • Researched and documented new procedures for the technical team to follow in upgrading from an NT network to an Active Directory network; ensured procedural accuracy in tests with a backup environment. Acceris Communications - San Diego, CA June 1997 to November 2006 PC Support Technician Acceris Communications June 1997 to August 2000 Hired to build new systems and maintain more than 275 PCs at two locations. Supported 250 end-users, eight remote switch sites and 20 remote sales users. Utilized Norton Ghost and Acronis imaging software to build new PCs. Troubleshot connectivity, printer and computer issues. Replaced hardware and restored systems.  • Collaborated with the helpdesk to provide initial on-call support for 98% of all trouble calls.  • Brought the company's Great Plans financial server back online after a hardware failure at 2:00 a.m. using Symantec System Restore and dissembler hardware.  • Halted an email attack compromising the network by disconnecting the Linux relay server, rerouting email MX records through a PIX firewall and building a Windows 2003 based DNS names server.  • Took the initiative to learn new applications and ensure the security of external servers and demonstrated the ability to act swiftly to bring the system back online from critical server, router and switch failures. Skills Dns, Exchange, Iis, Nas, Networking Additional Information Exceptionally talented systems engineer and administrator, highly experienced in all aspects of system and network installation, configuration and support, specializing in Virtualization, Windows Server, Active Directory, Exchange Server, Xen, ESX and Hyper-V High available infrastructure. A consummate professional with superior analysis skills and the capacity to successfully resolve complex technical issues with an eye for increasing productivity and minimizing system downtime. Demonstrated aptitude supporting and educating peers and clients. Outstanding success rate designing and building systems on-the-fly to meet technical needs. Adept at innovating business continuity and disaster recovery plans for critical systems through virtualization.    Technical Expertise    Operating Systems    • Windows 7/8/10  • Windows 2003/2008/2012/VMWare/ Citrix Xenserver/Hyper-V    Networking    • LAN/WAN  • TCP/IP & UDP  • Ethernet  • Telnet  • FTP/TFTP  • DHCP/DNS  • SMTP/SNMP  • IPX/SPX  • PPP  • VPN    Hardware    • PC/Server Assembly/Repair  • Switches/Routers/Hubs  • SAN/NAS/iSCSI  • Patch Panels/Fluke  • LAN Master  • Cat5 Cabling  • Fiber Optics    Applications    • MS Office 2007/2010/2013  • Office365  • Client Access AS/400  • Aldon Affinity  • Concretio  • CostGuard IDI  • Circuit Vision  • Delphi  • Backup Exec  • Symantec System Restore  • Nortel Networks  • Navision  • SUN Accounting Software  • WinRoute Pro  • Whatsup Gold  • Oracle  • SQL  • Exchange  • MS IIS  • MS Proxy  • Dreamweaver  • Image Right  • Norton Ghost  • Acronis Imaging Software  • Trend Micro Office Scan  • PCAnywhere  • MS Terminal Services  • RDP  • Citrix XenServer  • Insight Manager  • Intrusion Detection  • Compaq Insight Manager  • VNC  • Microsoft Hyper-V  • VMware ESX