Consulting Work / Custom Android Development Consulting Work / Custom Android Development Consulting Work / Custom Android Development at Self Employed Coos Bay, OR • Operating Systems Administration: Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CENTOS, Ubuntu, and most other Linux Distributions, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2003.  • Active Directory Unix/Linux Integration  • Hardware Administration: Dell 1-4 u servers, Sun Servers, HP servers, Thin clients, Workstations  • Experienced in system-operations training, and customer service.  • I am very proficient in research and implementation of new technology. My major focus in my most recent positions has been research and proof of concept of several technologies including but not limited to: Novell Edirectory, Novell Imanager, Cacti, Nagios, Amanda backup solution, LVS(load balancing), Heartbeat, LDAP, Cfengine, Puppet.  • Experienced in LAMP administration and implementation.  • Experienced in MySql administration and replication, Circular, Master > Slave, and SSL replication.  • I am an exuberant person who works well with a team and needs no babysitting. I am the guy who cannot say no to a challenge and welcomes it.  • Experienced in Microsoft Exchange Server, Microsoft Active Directory.  • Networking/Security: Centos firewall solutions, LVS load-balancing solutions, Design and implementation of suite at data center. Packet monitoring and analysis, DDOS detection, testing and prevention.  • Storage Solutions: Dell, Whitebox RAID, FreeNAS, OpenNAS  • Technology Stacks: Linux/Apache/MySQL/{PHP|PERL|PYTHON}  • Languages: Bash, Perl, PHP, Some Python Work Experience Consulting Work / Custom Android Development Self Employed June 2010 to Present Linux Solutions Consultant  • Helping small to medium businesses add Linux server solutions to their infrastructure.  • Setup Lamp environments using software load-balancing/high availability solutions.  • Help companies cut long term costs by providing in house solutions for e-mail, web sites, databases, time clocks, and various other situations. Sr. Linux Systems Administrator Sview LLC - San Jose, CA December 2009 to June 2010 • Administered Amazon EC2 instances  • Created a method skytools to replicate postgrSQL.  • Developed a way to use heartbeat to fail over AWS instances using a script that would reassign an elastic IP address and shutdown the failed instance and alert with an e-mail.  • Developed a method of using nginx to use ssl termination within a completely dynamic environment with failover.  • Used my previous experience with ldap and other various central authentication methods to implement centralized authentication within aws.  • Implemented centralized logging using rsyslog logging to a central mysql database with a custom web front-end. Sr. Linux Systems Administrator Bloosky Interactive Media - Provo, UT August 2008 to August 2009 • Built out new infrastructure using 3 separate geographical data centers from the bare racks to full production environment.  • Created and managed several custom Nagios plug-ins to monitor the custom services on our servers.  • Administered all aspects of Xen Virtualization Technology.  • Researched and implemented Cfengine to automate LAMP server installation and configuration tasks.  • Created a fully redundant load balancing system using open source applications.  • Gained a great knowledge in implementation, management, and configuration of large scale/high traffic web applications.  • Researched and implemented Novell Zenworks, Amanda Backup solution, Active Directory Unix authentication, LVS/Piranha web server load balancing, Novell Edirectory, Puppet automation software.  • Developed tools, policies, and implementation technique for sudo role separation through LDAP. IT Manager/Lead Systems Administrator MXM - Provo, UT 2006 to 2008 • Researched and implemented CMS(Sales Force) solution for call center agents.  • Administered Postfix e-mail server for use as our products e-mailer daemon.  • Administered/Implemented Linux firewall solution.  • Implemented/Administered IT web ticket submission, and tracking solution.  • Implemented/Administered Inventory management and control web application.  • Built, configured and administered several CentOs and Ubuntu web servers.  • Administered Microsoft Server 2008 used as an update distribution server.  • Administered Microsoft Server 2008 used as an our central authentication Active Directory server.  • Administered Microsoft Exchange Server for office email solution. Operations CCV, Provo 2004 to 2006 System Operations    • Maintained WDS( wireless distribution system )  • Maintained internal surveillance system server hardware and software.  • Developed internal Wiki and security policies towards that Wiki.  • Administered Microsoft Server 2003 used as an update distribution server.. Education Computer Science Stevens Henager College - Orem, UT 2005 to 2007