Access Management Access Management Benton, AR, 72015, US Work Experience Access Management Entergy Electric - Little Rock, AR May 2017 to October 2018 Access management  • Identity management for electronic and physical access to corporate resources.  • Participated in the continuous improvement of the identity and access management life cycle practices  • Supported systems in accordance to regulatory requirements, FERC Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) standards, in conjunction with IT Security Operations.  • Service Now (Snow Ticket system ) Systems Engineer JL Computing - Benton, AR February 2002 to January 2017 • Provide strategic and operational direction for hardware and environment.  • Continually improve and optimize server infrastructure for clients.  • Support Desktop configuration, antivirus, and support diagnoses.  • Server Windows 2008R2 configuration, administration and backups.  • Active directory management of users, computers, and security.  • Negotiated beneficial vendor agreements and maintain productive relationships.  • Research, source and utilize updated equipment and technology that improves system security, cost effectiveness and performance.  • Create operating documentation to support business.  • Implemented disaster recovery plans to maintain and recover system and data.  • Consistently deliver superior solutions for business needs. Network Systems Engineer InteliStaf Healthcare, Inc - Little Rock, AR October 2000 to December 2001 • Team leader for a Windows 2000 migration, from windows 9x/ Netware WAN, to a Windows2000 WAN environment.  • Train and build team on Windows 2000 setup, diagnosis and documentation for proper operations.  • Installed and upgraded Windows servers.  • Train Help desk team, analyzed and document processes to follow all guidelines.  • Responded to trouble tickets and work requests to complete in timely manner.  • Administer infrastructure policies and update to reflect changing conditions. Systems Administrator Qualchoice of Arkansas - Little Rock, AR November 1994 to March 2000 • Manage team workflow and reallocate resources for maximum productivity and efficiency.  • Responsible for recruiting, project assignment, evaluating and delivering results.  • Created a LAN based infrastructure to transport complex data across various groups within the corporation including remote capabilities using CISCO switches, routers and remote access equipment.  • Established Intra/Internet infrastructure to evaluate claims, support expanding enrollment and improve customer interaction.  • Developed and implemented Web based inter-departmental and business team reporting.  • Worked with local voice and data carriers developing fault tolerant contingency plans to maximum communication reliability and safety.  • Standardize network operating systems.  • Developed purchasing specifications for Desktops/Workstations, Laptops, Notebooks, Servers and Docking Stations.  • Coordinated hardware updates and software configurations to support critical information transfer.  • Outlined and administered department budget.  • Proficiently handle system outages and routine incidents. Understood and worked to minimize potential risks. Education Associate Skills Tcp/ip (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), Sms (5 years), Security (10+ years), Ethernet (10+ years), Data integrity (10+ years), Sql (2 years), Project leadership (10+ years), Risk assessment (10+ years), Systems security (10+ years), Microsoft Excel (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Microsoft Outlook (10+ years), Microsoft Powerpoint (5 years), Microsoft Word (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Asset management (10+ years) Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE:  Network and Systems Security Data Integrity and Recovery  Policy Planning and Implementation Team & Project Leadership  Risk Assessment & Impact Analysis Network asset management  Project management Patch management    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    Platforms: Windows XP/ NT/2000/Vista /win7/win10  Networking: SMS / SQL, Ethernet, TCP/IP  Tools: McAfee/Norton Antivirus Protection Utilities, Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Project, Outlook)