Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Henderson, NV Seeking FT position using my varied dev, admin, support and test experience in *nix environments. Willing to relocate. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Return Path December 2010 to March 2019 Wrote, maintained, tested, configured and scaled backend perl systems responsible for parsing emails and storing metadata in Oracle. Created internal tools for staff to interact with Oracle data. Maintained existing golang, php, python, shell, sqlldr code as needed. Configured monitoring, alerting and graphing using nagios, scalyr, datadog, graphite, grafana, prometheus, etc. Created custom monitoring as needed. Generated capacity plans. Provided on-call support. Created documentation. Migrated systems from datacenter to AWS in in 2017-2018. Ramped-up on docker, kubernetes, kafka, scalyr, sqs, s3, terraform, ecr, prometheus, grafana, cpanm, redis and other tech as needed. Upgraded systems in 2014 (upgrades included OS, perl, fetchmail, Oracle client, etc). Database Programmer Universal Music Group September 2009 to December 2010 Provided programming, debugging, on-call support for CRM system (included customer-facing web applications, MySQL, Oracle, and SQL Server databases) and ETL automation (perl, shell, C, sqlplus, sqlldr, file transfers). Created automation for file transfers, app restarts, data dumping, unsubscribe request handling, report generation, etc. Installed and configured nagios to monitor services and automation: wrote perl plugins to test authentication on front-end, test connections to databases, monitor ETL automation, identify errors in log files. Created documentation. Systems Administrator/Programmer Veoh Networks September 2007 to April 2009 Provided system administration, application operations, on-call and support for various services running on linux servers for veoh.com (included apache, java/jboss/jetty, mod_perl, hadoop, solr, openx services). Wrote and maintained a customer-facing mod_perl/apache service to provide image resizing. Wrote a mod_perl/apache service to store, retrieve, increment and decrement values in memcache. Configured nagios, cacti and ganglia to monitor systems. Created dashboards for staff to view collections of related graphs. Wrote perl code to detect anomalies in performance data. Created documentation. Systems Administrator/Programmer Yahoo Music / Musicmatch July 2000 to September 2007 Provided system administration, on-call, support and application operations for services running on *nix servers for musicmatch.com. Configured load balancer and cacheflow devices. Supported dev, test/staging and prod environments. Maintained monitoring, alerting and graphing systems (nagios, big brother, cacti, cricket). Wrote and maintained customer-facing mod_perl/apache services to serve content for musicmatch.com (the service provided template assembly, variable interpolation and inheritance functionality for HTML developers to create dynamic content). Wrote and maintained perl emailing systems responsible for sending transactional and marketing emails, created perl web tools for non-technical staff to prepare email campaigns. Wrote perl code for abuse handling, customer-facing subscription preferences tool, bounce handling, click-through processing, stats reporting, etc. Perl Programmer Mindbank Consulting March 2000 to July 2000 Provided perl programming for a purchasing system with a web front-end and a Sybase backend Programmer/Analyst Wang September 1998 to February 2000 Provided perl programming to support a knowledge base with a web front-end and a Sybase backend. Provided VBA and perl programming for a purchasing system with Access. Perl Programmer Pencom April 1998 to September 1998 Provided perl programming to automate file transfers for Motorola. Database/ Systems Administrator Garcia Consulting Inc March 1997 to April 1998 Sys admin - Solaris  Provided database administration and perl programming for a Cuadra Star database at the Patent and Trademark Office. Education B.S. in Psychology in Psychology James Madison University