Engineering Analyst Engineering Analyst Engineering Analyst - ICONMA\Capital One Falls Church, VA To establish a challenging position in Information Technology, with a corporation in management, measurement, systems and engineering support. Where my 22 years of comprehensive senior systems analyst and governmental executive experience will assist to promote, achieve and support the company's growth and future. Work Experience Engineering Analyst ICONMA\Capital One - McLean, VA September 2018 to Present • Independent troubleshooting of complex issues with Windows 10 deployment and support  • Run analysis on Microsoft Configuration Manager - SCCM task sequences, and report any migration issues including potential trending, complications and root causes  • Dissecting past SCCM path sequences, for Windows 10 deployments  • Writing technical documentation and instructing resources, on how to resolve issues encountered, as well as implementing proactive steps  • Collaborate and liaison with server and engineering teams for deployment conclusions  • User Focus: Level 2 Engineering triage and scrutiny in a GSuite environment, with a customer service approach  • User Focus: Remote Support for approximately 48,000 users on technical break-fix concerns  • Analyzed and evaluated SCCM and Microsoft Windows logs  • JIRA project implementation  • Azure Active Directory and Configuration Manager management Systems Administrator KForce - EMCOR Construction Services - McLean, VA December 2017 to August 2018 • Systems Administration day-to-day monitoring and management of HQ office computers, servers, and applications with a customer service approach  • Physical to application corporate and site support for 42 plus companies under the ECS domain  • Executive Management Support  • Monitoring and management of the VMWare Environment  • Monitoring, security and patch management for server operating systems  • Daily Backup Maintenance & Monitoring via Rapid Recovery  • AirWatch Administrator to include mobile device set-up, IBM Traveler configuration, adding and removing users and devices, templates, permissions, iOS update notifications and maintenance. As well as DEP Administration working directly with carrier vendors.  • Work remotely and onsite with operation companies to implement upgrades and projects.  • Assist IT Staff of operation companies with software rollout, policy initiatives, and domain migrations.  • Cisco Meraki WIFI Administration  • G Suite Administration  • Active Directory (AD & AD LDS) Administration Systems Administrator TwentyEighty - Arlington, VA January 2017 to December 2017 • Global Administrator of Microsoft Office 365 in a Hybrid environment for TwentyEighty and its subsidiaries, including 58 domains  • Assisted in project to migrate/consolidate 200 legacy servers into new Windows Server 2016 environment into highly feasible datacenter.  • Active Directory Domain Functional Server 2008 R2.  • Public DNS Management doe 380 domains, including MX, DKIM and SPF Management.  • Responsible for server and end user patching.  • Server Backup Management via Symantec Backup Exec, Veeam.  • Group Policy Management.  • IIS Management for multiple websites, including SSL generation and implementation via DigiCert.  • Project Manager\Lead on various IT Projects. Project Migrations Analyst CompGain - FINRA/NASDAQ - Rockville, MD April 2016 to December 2016 Manage and execute Windows 7, 8 and 10 platform migrations by means of  • Managing a migration team of 4 analysts  • Enterprise scheduling for 3,600 clients  • System Implementation  • Project Lead on testing of Windows 10 and Office 2016.  • Chronicle weekly migrations, deployments and imaging concerns  • Conduct and moderate weekly progress meetings  • Imaging, software and package deployments  • Desktop Engineering via SCCM - scripting and testing images with various hardware to include Microsoft Surfaces, Lenovo, MAC, Dell and HP  • Service Level Agreement compliance  • Root Cause Analysis  • Client Relationship Management  • Bloomberg Client Configuration Systems Analyst Lockheed Martin - Bethesda, MD October 2010 to November 2015 • Performed advance calibration and accommodation through proper handling, routing and resolution of break/fix (troubleshooting) problem incidents, service requests and IT infrastructure projects in an enterprise environment.  • Thoroughly assessed client's contingency through proper analysis by making sure the client is back in their traditional state.  • Imaged and reimaged laptops, desktops, tablets and POS systems.  • Supported the following OS structures: Windows 7 and Windows 8 in testing phase of Windows 10 on Dell, HP and Samsung hardware.  • Project Management focus: Served as project lead for the implementation of the new Enterprise Hardware Software request structure.  • Testing focus: JAVA Testing using Agile Test and AppsWatch for web application testing and SQL Profiler for Oracle(Hyperion) and Khalix Database testing  • New Hire and White Glove Executive Training.  • Technical Migrations (Including hardware and software upgrades).  • Microsoft Office 2013 Deployment  • Active Directory administration  • Group Policy  • SQL server Hyperion & Horizon support  • SAP Spectrum support  • iPhone, iPad deployment and support\AirWatch administrator.  • Blackberry support\BES administrator.  • Bloomberg and HedgeServ support.  • Laptop, tablet, and peripheral allowance pool.  • After hour support.  • Client resource training.  • Standard Operating Procedure authoring and modifying documentation.  • HP Certified enabled me to replace hard drives, motherboards, RAM, fans, NIC cards, heat sinks and other hardware.  • Adhering to Service Level Agreements.  • Instrumental in ITSM process problem management, change management, and customer management.  • Teamed with the appropriate support areas (server administration, engineering and DBA support) to ensure software/patch distribution goals are remediated within the required timeframe.  • Maintained security on enterprise laptops as McAfee Endpoint Protection administrator, as well as deploying McAfee Endpoint Encryption through SCCM along with MEE registering and agent check-ins.  • Computer remediation, ensuring that all active systems are free of vulnerabilities.  • Ensuring customer engagements result in 100% customer satisfaction by providing quality, courteous, reliable timely responses to all clients, Remedy ITSM incidents and requests.  • Maintaining Service Level Agreements, (SLAs) and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP).  • Fostered teamwork and idea-sharing, by collaboratively developing ideas, plans and solutions while gaining commitment to shared goals. Systems Support Analyst Mansai Corporation - Laurel, MD August 2008 to August 2010 • Furnished Level II and Level III support by analyzing and diagnosing various software and hardware issues, in a Microsoft Windows XP Professional and transitioning Windows 7 environment.  • Examined and resolve client issues through SCCM Configuration Client, as well as desk side with a customer service approach.  • Balanced connectivity via VPN Citrix & remote access.  • Created, added and modified client accounts, exchange mailboxes, distribution lists and public mailbox folders in Active Directory. Set up Public Shared folder requests.  • Reset client account credentials.  • Composed Mainframe (Rumba) accounts. Reset Mainframe credentials and execute data sets.  • Imaged and configure workstations and laptops for the client community.  • Trained new users and current users on the different images used on desktop  • Recorded and Q&A incident through and HP Service Manager Client.  • Run Outage, Q&A & Analyst reports . Transpose Oracle Time Entry Client credentials.  • Traveled to various depot satellite offices to install, diagnose, configure, train and resolve desktop issues with a customer service approach  • Set-up Blackberries on EES Blackberry Exchange server  • Setting up activation code for Blackberry new users on Exchange and on device itself  • Training for new Blackberry users/clients. Virtual Private Network Systems Analyst NIT Services - Landover, MD August 2007 to August 2008 • Provisioned as a Level 3 Systems Analyst under a Virtual Private Network infrastructure, for the Department of Treasury-Internal Revenue Service. Supporting over 35,000 ERAP remote users at 400 sites.  • Troubleshooting connectivity issues via modems, routers, switches and servers through a CISCO VPN Client set up. Support also entails connections through Dial-Up, Broadband (i.e. Cable Modem, DSL, and Wireless Cards/Air-cards,), on laptops and desktops in a Microsoft Windows XP Professional and Microsoft Windows Vista Professional environment.  • Taxonomy of all call queue, web incidents tickets and fixed site outages. Responsible for various PMO activities such as:  • Supported the PMO in the definition, improvement, and implementation of VPN problem management processes, procedures, and plans for IRS Field Operations personnel and EN Operations Management.  • Supported the PMO in ensuring resolutions to problems that are fed back into the ITAMS Probe and Response guide and updating existing ERAP Knowledge Base as necessary.  • Supported the PMO in measuring and maintaining Service Level Agreements (SLAs) and Standard Operating Procedures SOP, established for program performance as agreed with the MSP and as defined by MITS (Onsite technical support). Liaison between government and vendor.  • Supported the PMO in the assurance of end user support systems. Activities may include, but are not limited to coordination between various IRS support organizations and vendors (Verizon and AT&T), and logging, tracking, and reporting status of outages. Tracking, affecting upgrades, deployment tools, implementations, performance, and contract compliance. Team Lead/Supervisor, Senior Systems Analyst Computer Science Corporation December 1997 to August 2007 District of Columbia    Executive Duties  • Led a team of 13 analysts supporting the JCON Help Desk, with levels of Tier I, II & III support, as well as provided the Tier II and Tier III support, with the U.S. Department of Justice -Justice Management Division (JMD) and Senior Management and Executive Offices including the Attorney General and his components in a call center and helpdesk environment.  • Provided technical support to FBI, DEA, BOP, Local Police, US Marshalls, Bureau of Prisons and ATF through a Joint Automated Booking System (JABS) with a focus on Live Scan fingerprinting .. Unlocking and resetting of accounts, maintenance of fingerprinting software and account management.  • Supported over 25,000 users, to include VIP Staff, support in Windows XP, Office XP Professional and Corel WordPerfect Suite.  • Provided technical and desktop support during its migration from Windows NT to a Windows 2003 network migrated to various buildings install, diagnose, configure, train and resolve desktop issues with a customer service approach.  • Traveled to end users site and setting up the physical HP/Compaq workstations and network printers connecting them to the Domain and patching them down in the network wiring closet. Added P/C's and printers to correct container in MS Windows 2003. Also installed, diagnosed, configured, trained and resolved issue desk side with a customer service approach.  • Managed communication between Government Staff and Help Desk in a liaison manner.  • Provided daily ACD Analyst, and Vendor reports from Crystal Reports to client  • Monitored Help Desk opened and closed calls. Report results to government managers.  • Ensured the Help Desk was aware and prepared to address all situations in a timely manner.  • Attended management meetings with the government staff.  • Managed, directed, trained and provided guidance to my team members, Tier Levels, 1, 2 and 3, to provide the same proficiency.  • Held weekly new user and current user training classes on Microsoft Office and Corel Suites.  • Managed the day-to-day activities of the Help Desk (13 contractors).  • Recorded and processed Account Management requests for the Account Administration Group.  • Acted as liaison between Account Management and Designated Signing Officials to ensure accurate documentation was submitted.  • Responsible for technical writing and implementation of training manuals.  • Handled employee scheduling personal and business, budgeting, vendor acquisitions and employee tasks.  • Handled all user escalations.  • Counseled and coached staff.  • Encrypted Government laptops with Point Sec Encryption software.    Legal Focus  • Supported, assisted & trained the attorneys in the Attorney General's office as well as other Department of Justice components, in such legal software as Lexis Nexis, Westlaw, Paradox and ISYS.  • Trained and directed attorneys in Corel Suite 5x - 12x Legal, focusing on creating pleading paper, merging, table of contents, depositions, case filings and appellate briefs to ensure the court's approval.  • Worked in Civil assisted end users and attorneys with such software as Trial Director and Summation.  Software Testing Focus  • Supported maintenance testing for the Department of Justice and its agencies, consisting of GUI Base and back-end testing with such software as Oracle, Lexis Nexis, Westlaw, Paradox and ISYS.  • Created test data with XML Spy for Web testing.  • Wrote test cases based on requirements.  • Tested these products on functionality, usability in a UNIX environment.  • Used Mercury Quality Center to execute test cases and track defects.  • Created Test Cases and Formulas and Test Data to mimic data from various DOJ.  • Q&A test cases written and executed.    Technical Analyst Duties  • Worked in Active Directory creating, building, deleting, and modifying accounts with Account Management.  • Troubleshoot Hardware (via LANDesk Remote connection) and various other Software issues, and any Network connectivity issues.  • Maintained user account security with Directory Resource Administrator/NetIQ Administration and User Management.  • Provided remote support via Dial-In access to the JMD Desktop via JSRA Citrix and using encryption software PointSec. Provide support for JMD Legacy Applications, such as Informs Filler (accessed via Terminal Services, thru Citrix MetaFrame), FMIS and FMIS PC2.  • Record problems using Remedy Help Desk vers.6.  • Responsible for resolving majority of user's issues, with a positive Customer Service approach.  • Worked with 20 MS Exchange 2003 - Service Pack 2 servers. Monitoring spam rebooting if an exchange problem occurred. Instrumental in mailbox restorations and public shared mailbox building as third level support.  • Worked with Windows 2003 5.2 Monitoring, shadowing, rebooting servers and print servers, file restores. Created public shared folders as third level support. worked with Citrix Server Meta Frame, adding, deleting and renaming user accounts.  • Set-up Blackberries on EES Blackberry Exchange server.  Deploy and set up activation code for Blackberry new users on Exchange and on device itself.  • Training for new Blackberry users/clients. Receivables Manager Vistech Inc - Chantilly, VA April 1996 to December 1997 • Supervised and managed an administrative staff of four.  • Responsible for the collection of open balances on approximately three hundred (300) Accounts.  • Reconciled accounts and entered in adjustments through Deltek Accounting System& Microsoft Excel Microsoft Word.  • Handled all customer disputes and account escalations for supervisory approval. Interfaced and corresponded with Vistech's sales force and billing department.  • Responsible for updating and maintaining vendor and consultant staffing reports i.e. contracts expirations and compliances.  • Created invoices generated for billing and contracting accounts in Microsoft Word. Tracked purchase orders, vendor expenses, work commissions and expirations.  • Retrieved Dun and Bradstreet reports daily, obtaining credit qualifications for clients. Education Business Communications Elizabeth City State University May 1991 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dns, Encryption, Exchange, Iis, Remedy, Server administration, Service level agreements, Sms, Solarwinds, Tcp/ip, Vlan, Citrix, Dhcp, Juniper, Landesk, Ldap, Remote access, Tcp Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    HARDWARE:  Dell Computer Systems & Laptops (E-Series) Desktops (OptiPlex), Dell tablet ST Compaq Computers & Laptops, Toshiba Laptops, HP Computer Systems and Gateway Computer Systems, HP EliteBook laptops, HP, Xerox and Samsung Printers, Samsung tablets, Scanners, Modems, Routers, Switches, RJ 45 Cables, Blackberry's, iPhone, iPads, memory, hard drives, motherboards, NICs, Intel, heat sinks, LAN, WAN    PLATFORMS:  Microsoft Windows 7, Microsoft Windows 8, Windows 10, Linux and UNIX, iPhones, iPads, Blackberries, Androids, LG's & TPM    PRODUCTIVITY SUITES & SOFTWARE:  Office 365, Microsoft Office Suite 2016, Microsoft Office Suite 2013, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, Agile and Corel Suite 12 - Standard & Legal, Lotus Notes    CONCENTRATIONS:  • Project Management Focus:  ? Enterprise Scheduling for a 20,000 plus user community migrating from Windows 7 to Windows 10 via Microsoft Project and JIRA  ? Authored Windows 10 Break Fix Knowledge Articles and Training Documentation for deployment  ? Moderated Weekly Progress meetings with SCCM Desktop Engineers, Asset Management and Desktop Support Managers  ? Ensured that weekly upgrades stayed within scope and met SLAs (Service Level Agreements)  ? Marshalled packaging testing for deployments    • Change Process Management  • Problem Triage Management  • Leadership  • JIRA\Agile  • VMWare ESXi  • VLAN Management  • Windows Hyper-V  • Rapid Recovery  • GSuite, Smartsheet  • Bloomberg  • SolarWinds  • SMTP Servers  • Public DNS including MX/SPF/DKIM  • Microsoft IIS/SSL Certificates  • Windows Server 2008/2012/2016  • CSS  • Microsoft Office 365 Administration  • DirSync and AD Azure Connect  • Active Directory Domain Services and LDAP  • Power Shell  • AirWatch Administration  • BES Server Administration  • Microsoft Exchange Server  • Tenable Nessus Security Center  • Symantec Endpoint Protection and PointSec  • Symantec Backup Exec  • Mainframe (Rumba)  • SAP  • Samanage  • BitLocker Encryption, McAfee Encryption and DDPE Encryption  • Dell KACE Asset Management  • Configuration Manager/SCCM  • SharePoint 20101/2013  • Avecto Privilege Guard  • McAfee EPO  • TCP/IP  • Internal DHCP/DNS/NAT  • Remedy Help Desk Agent, McAfee Help Desk Agent, Service Now, HP Service Center & Samanage  • Juniper Networks, Cisco VPN and Citrix  • LANDesk  • SMS Remote Access  • AP Test Manager  • WINSCP  • Lexis Nexis & Westlaw  • Summation  • Intrusion Detection System (IDS)