Program Engineer Program Engineer FULL STACK DEVELOPER Kansas City, MO Well-qualified Full Stack Developer familiar with a wide range of programming utilities and  languages. Knowledgeable of backend and frontend development requirements. Able to handle  any part of the process with ease. Collaborative team player with excellent technical abilities  offering + 20 years of related experience.    Network Administrator experienced with Windows, Linux, Firewall's and PCs in High Availability  environments, implementation and management. Work Experience Program Engineer MSTS - Overland Park, KS August 2018 to May 2019 • Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders.  • Performed regression and system-level testing to verify software quality and function before it  was released.  • Maintained existing applications and designed and delivered new applications.  • Updated documentation whenever there were deviations to the project to reflect these  changes.  • Developed code fixes and enhancements for inclusion in future code releases and patches.  • Debugged and modified software components. SYSTEMS PROGRAMMER / SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Creative Marketing Programs - Kansas City, MO March 2001 to May 2018 Designed, modified and tested code and scripts using PHP, CodeIgniter, HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, Ajax, SASS, Less, Python and C# to help computer applications run  efficiently.  • Created software programs, such as PURL (Personalized URL) & eBRC (Elec. Business Reply Card)  by writing and testing the programs to ensure optimal performance and accuracy.  • Built Company Website (2003 - 2017) using CodeIginter.  • Took initial concepts and developed project plans.  • Provided methodologies for object-oriented software development and efficient database  design.  • Trained junior members of IT team regarding network security and troubleshooting of data, and code.  • Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders.  • Diagnosed and troubleshooted UNIX and Windows processing problems and applied solutions  to increase company efficiency.  • Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance  and upgrades. Education Digital Electronics Electronics Institute - Kansas City, MO May 1981 to July 1982 Skills C# (Less than 1 year), Git (2 years), Jenkins (Less than 1 year), Php (10+ years), Codeigniter (8 years), Javascript (8 years), HTML 5 (5 years), CSS3 (5 years), Less (5 years), SASS (3 years), GITLAB (1 year), Ajax (5 years), JQuery (5 years), MySQL (8 years), MSSQL (10+ years), Oracle (2 years), Db2 (3 years), C (2 years), Flash AS3 (2 years), Lamp (8 years), Servers (5 years), Networking (8 years), New Business Development (10+ years), New Product Development (10+ years), Visual Basic (8 years), .NET (Less than 1 year), Asp.Net (Less than 1 year), ASP (5 years), JIRA (Less than 1 year), Virtualization (5 years), Web Design (10+ years), Linux (8 years) Certifications/Licenses Ham Radio Operator January 2015 to January 2025 Amateur radio operator, Licensed to communicate on radio frequencies allocated by the FCC.  