Intermediate Representative Intermediate Representative Intermediate Representative - BNY Mellon Utica, NY Familiar with the standard practices and financial requirements of global business. Skilled  analyst able to collect, organize and analyze data. Excellent verbal and written  communication, problem-solving and relationship-building skills. Demonstrated the ability  to complete tasks accurately despite interruptions and competing demands. Work Experience Intermediate Representative BNY Mellon - Oriskany, NY November 2015 to Present • Monitored and analyzed Key Performance Indicators (KPI) and financial ratios.  • Strengthened operational efficiencies and traceability, enhancing guidelines  procedures for overseas operations.  • Reviewed results and monitored variances, delivering all pertinent compiled  information to my supervisor and manager along with suggestions for improvement. Data Systems Administrator ICON Laboratory Services - Whitesboro, NY August 2010 to November 2015 • Ensured data accuracy to support pre-clinical/clinical bioanalytical studies.  • Reviewed bioanalytical entries to verify regulatory compliance.  • Completed data entry with a focus on accuracy and efficiency. Omni Processor Benefit Plans Administrators - Utica, NY January 2004 to April 2008 • Processed paperwork regarding benefit plans after verifying accuracy.  • Reconciled all daily expenses and accounts for trading.  • Supported the clerical and administrative needs of senior department staff. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Business/Public Management SUNY Polytechnic Institute - Utica, NY 2003 Skills Data analysis, Customer service, Financial analysis, Finance, Detail-oriented Additional Information Skills • Hardworking mentality • Reliable  • Comparative analysis • Energetic  • Research and data analysis • Uncompromising work ethic  • Self-motivated professional • International finance knowledge  • Detail-oriented • Financial analysis  • Flexible • Exceptional customer service