IT Systems Engineer IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer System Administrator Mascotte, FL Industry certified I.T. professional with over fifteen years of experience with emphasis on  Windows server platforms, datacenter operations, virtualization technologies, backup  strategies, mobile device management and end user support. Exhibits the ability to provide the  business with cost effective technology solutions that allow growth, functionality and security.  Possess excellent written and verbal capacity which facilitates the collaboration between  technical and non-technical personnel. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems Engineer Florida Cancer Specialists & Research Institute January 2019 to Present ? Build, deploy and maintain windows servers 2012 R2, 2016 (physical and VMware)  ? Datacenter infrastructure support  ? Group Policy (Deploy Printers, Map Drives, Shortcuts)   ? Active Directory administration (user and vendor accounts, security permissions)  ? IPAM (DNS, DHCP)    ? Print Management  ? O365 administration and support  ? Cisco Call manager and Fuse Polycom support  ? Knowledge of Ivanti Deployment software for remote software installation   ? NAGIOS monitoring   ? Create documentation of IT procedures for internal use and to provide to end users  ? Ability to interact with multiple IT teams and non-IT teams (clinic staff and management)  ? Assist lower tier support teams with more complex hardware and software issues  ? Participate in on call rotation Infrastructure Support Specialist Hoerbiger Inc - Deerfield Beach, FL February 2014 to December 2018 ? Windows server (2012 R2, 2008) administration in a global enterprise environment  ? Install, maintain and support virtual infrastructure (Hyper-V, VMware)  ? Manage, troubleshoot and support network printers and multifunction printer equipment  ? Install, configure and maintain infrastructure at datacenter   ? Active Directory administration users accounts, home folders and security groups permissions  ? Group policy (mapped drives, deployed printers)   ? DHCP, DNS, Print Management, DFS  ? Understanding of Dell Compellent storage solution  ? Knowledge of Altiris Deployment software for remote software installation   ? Backup solutions such as Tivoli Storage Manager, Symantec Backup Exec and Symantec DLO    ? Administer BES12 MDM for mobile platforms as IOS, Windows Mobile and Blackberry  ? Monitor infrastructure via PRTG  ? Maintain server licensing and warranty information    ? Yearly travel to remote sites for support (US and Canada)  ? Participate in IT collaboration meetings with overseas colleagues (Europe and Asia) Systems Administrator Southern Audio Visual November 2005 to December 2013 ? Overseeing all IT purchasing, agreements, renewals and expirations   ? Participate in weekly technology related meetings with upper management   ? IT support for shows and productions at offsite venues  ? Responsible for all company infrastructure   ? HP ProLiant and Dell PowerEdge servers Windows 2003, 2012  ? HP Procurve network switch’s  ? Setup and administer Sonicwall Firewall   ? Setup and maintain Qqest Time and Attendance software  ? Maintain and support the company’s Sage Accpac ERP software    ? Maintained company’s web and ftp site    ? Maintain and support Panasonic Digital phone system including voicemail and on hold music  ? Setup, configure and maintain Buffalo Terastation NAS device for server backups  ? Setup of hotel business centers with automated computer systems   ? Supported Blackberry, Android and iPhone mobile phones  ? Familiar with Symantec Enterprise products Backup Exec and Corp. edition Antivirus   ? Configure, manage and maintain email server and accounts on Mail-Traq email software Education A.S. in Network Administration and Wireless Technology Florida Technical College 2016 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (4 years), VIRTUALIZATION (4 years), MOBILE DEVICES (4 years), MDM (4 years), HELP DESK (4 years), System Administrator, Vmware, DNS Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/farzal-khan-087 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Server 2016 CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ ITIL v3 Foundations Additional Information SKILLS  * Windows Servers * Security * Switches, routers, WAPs  * Hardware\Software * Group Policy * MDM Administration  * Enterprise Anti-Virus * Virtualization * Mobile devices  * Networking * Active Directory * Backup Solutions  * Help Desk * Troubleshooting * Time Management  * I.T. Documentation * Software Licensing * Communication  * PRTG Monitoring * Email Operations * Customer Support