Senior Windows Systems Administrator Senior Windows <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Windows Systems Administrator, with VMWare experience. Gilbert, AZ • Senior Windows Systems Administrator  o 13+ years Windows experience  o 8+ years VMWare experience  • Certified IT professional  o MCSE, MCSA, MCP and CompTia Security +  • Windows Server 2012, ’08, and ‘03  o In depth Active Directory, Group Policy, and most of the Windows Server Roles  • Administration of VMware Virtual Infrastructure  o vCenter, vCloud Director, Horizon View and Lab Manager, and maintaining ESXi hosts and guest VMs; HA, vMotion, DRS, dvSwitches, P to V conversions, etc.  • Departmental and topological administration of network resources, using access control lists, Group Policy, and data link and network layer protocols  • Configuration of DNS, DHCP, and Remote Access  • Design and implementation of data backup strategies  • Hardware support for Dell servers, IBM xSeries servers, and HP Proliant servers  • Provision of general technical support for users of varying skill levels  • Powershell and Shell scripting. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Windows Systems Administrator Expedia Group - Chandler, AZ August 2017 to February 2019 Contract Role  • As member of the Hybrid Infrastructure and Core Services team, managed 18 different on-premise Active Directory domains, and several more AWS hybrid and cloud domains; including deploying OS instances and configuring Security Groups to allow network access from on-prem hosts.  • Responsible for server OS, for AWS, on-prem physical and on-prem virtual (VMware).  • Extensive work with AGPM (Advanced Group Policy Management), to configure user access, schedule patching, etc.  • AD schema work; cleaning up Active Directory permissions issues.  • Infoblox work which included adding Networks, DHCP scopes and setting Members as DHCP servers/IP helpers, and setting up custom Authoritative zones for externally hosted parent zones, to effect split horizon DNS, and managing Member HA pairs; active passive etc.  • Working with UltraDNS; setting up external records, zones, etc.  • Setting up SFTP accounts, public keys and shares, and configuring Van Dyke SFTP server; troubleshooting access issues.  • Managing Windows Clusters, and replacing failed nodes.  • Setting up ADFS relying party trusts, and varying claims rules.  • Powershell scripting utilizing WMI methods and properties for bulk server configuration  • Scripted DNS server changes, using Powershell and Shell..  • Scripted changes to multiple user and group attributes, including SFTP service accounts, groups, shares and user rights, and to monitor Services such as LDAP and DNS.  • Worked within an agile environment, with Bi-weekly sprints, stories, etc. Senior Windows Systems Administrator CVS Caremark - Scottsdale, AZ January 2017 to June 2017 Contract Role  • Assisting Windows Patching and Compliance team with night shift patching of 7000+ Windows servers; physical and virtual. Investigating vulnerabilities reported by Qualys, and handled disputes regarding validity of alerts. Senior Windows Systems Administrator Estenson Logistics - Mesa, AZ September 2016 to October 2016 Contract Role (pre-determined one-month contract)  • Configured and documented backup and monitoring of environment during company's change of IT management personnel.  • Configured and documented backup and monitoring of environment during company's change of IT management. Additionally, recommended Active Directory, vSphere and other improvements. Senior Windows Systems Administrator Swift Transportation - Tolleson, AZ October 2015 to June 2016 Contract Role  • Upgraded DHCP to 2012, changing to an active/standby failover solution. Set up DHCP and DNS relationship so as to enable scavenging and eliminate multiple incorrect host records.  • Initiated Domain Upgrade from 2008 to 2012 R2: prepared the existing schema and resolved issues preventing the upgrade.  • Set up and tested Active Directory Federated Services (ADFS) internally, in preparation for later external use.  • Set up VMWare distributed virtual switch and added the ESXi hosts to same, in order to improve efficiency in VCenter networking.  • Set up SCCM distribution point servers for use at remote sites.  • Provided general server and application support. Senior Windows Systems Administrator Discount Tire Corporate Headquarters - Scottsdale, AZ January 2015 to June 2015 Contract Role  • Upgraded DHCP from Windows 2008 to Windows 2012 load-balanced mode, set up and managed KMS licensing on Windows 2012, and migrated print services to 2012. Daily duties included file services management, server administration and Active Directory/Group policy management. Private Cloud Environment Manager (Windows and VMWare) General Dynamics C4S - Scottsdale, AZ October 2011 to June 2014 Contract then Full Time  • My work included co-managing the "High Performance Cloud Service" ("HPCS") multi-tenancy initiative, while focusing on the VMware View VDI component of the same. I managed infrastructure servers, including SQL servers, user accounts and network resources; supporting 1500+ VMs, vSphere, vCloud Director, VMware View, ESXi hosts and 500+ end users. For our VDI initiative, I introduced User State Virtualization utilizing both Microsoft and VMware components of user profile management. Other duties were general system administration in a windows-oriented environment, and interfacing with the various cloud tenant projects. My work included migration of the virtual desktop infrastructure from Windows XP to Windows 7, migration of virtual Organizations from Lab Manager to vCloud Director and monitoring all of the virtual resources via vCenter. Windows Systems Administrator Early Warning Services - Scottsdale, AZ November 2009 to June 2011 Full time position  • At Early Warning Services, I built, maintained and monitored several hundred virtual and physical servers, using Virtual Infrastructure Manager, Group Policy, Active Directory and third party tools, including LANDesk and Zabbix. Where necessary, I designed new Group Policies and deployed scripts to improve the efficiency and security of the environment.  • I was part of a team responsible for moving one datacenter, and building out a second datacenter; my work included among other things, deploying multiple virtual servers from script, configuring the servers and installing software. A good deal of new hardware was involved in the above which necessitated troubleshooting various compatibility issues with VMWare, Server 2008 and Juniper networking equipment. I set up new Active Directory sites, Domain Controllers, DHCP servers, DNS servers and print servers.  • Daily tasks such as user share administration general troubleshooting and patching were also part of my work at Early Warning Services. Systems Administrator Britton Business Computing - New York, NY April 2006 to October 2009 Full time position  • With Britton, I serviced a variety of clients, including but not limited to, large medical practices with over 50 workstations and several servers. As a systems and network administrator, my responsibility was for the entire network, all software running on it, and for the users' secure and successful use of the same, from the gateway devices, through the servers, down to the user's desktop; this involved installing, troubleshooting and maintaining third party billing and appointment applications, including ADS' Medics Premier and Medent, as well as the following:  • Administration of network resources in Windows Server 2003 Active Directory domains  • Converted multiple Windows 2000 domains to Windows 2003 domains; rebuilt several domains  • Windows 2003 Group Policy implementation  • Provided on-site consultation for management on issues such as tailoring the user environment with regard to internet access, available applications and HIPAA compliance  • Setting up, configuring and troubleshooting new networks  • Set up Remote Access using VPNs, Remote Desktop, PCAnywhere and Timbutku.  • Firewall (Sonicwall TZ-190) setup and configuration, to allow secure network traffic for approved applications and devices  • Cisco and Netgear switch setup and configuration  • Wireless access point configuration, using Linksys, Belkin and Netgear devices  • Server installation and configuration; out of the box, to up and running with Windows Server 2003  • Desktop support of Windows XP, 2000, Vista and Mac 10.4 and 10.5  • Data backup and restore, using Retrospect, Veritas, SmartsyncPro and other software  • Exchange rollouts; converting the enterprise from POP accounts to hosted Microsoft Exchange  • Mail host rollovers  • Configuring and troubleshooting DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP and Active Directory replication  • Setting up and monitoring enterprise level antivirus solutions, including Kaspersky and AVG, and dealing with viruses, malware, and other security issues  • Setting up Blackberry e-mail  • RAID configuration of Dell and IBM servers  • Troubleshooting hardware issues with Dell PowerEdge 3600 servers, IBM Servers, Cisco, Netgear and other network devices and desktops, and replacing parts where necessary Desktop support The Administration for Children's Services - New York, NY February 2006 to April 2006 New York City, NY 02/06 - 04/06  Lan Technician  Full time position    • O/S installation and image utilization, using Norton Ghost  • Citrix installation and configuration  • Troubleshooting hardware issues  • Network administration, including installing printers, setting up e-mail, adding user accounts and passwords  • Desktop support Education Glenstal Abbey High School - Limerick Sciences Swedish Institute of Massage and Health - New York, NY Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ohntiyuzs5j9x-x Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2a05qigc7igndwzu Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.