Lead Application Engineer Lead Application Engineer Application Engineer Hackensack, NJ Extensive experience in developing and implementing application and infrastructure architecture. Maintain, develop and expand key relationships with internal and external teams. Exceptional leadership and mentoring skills. Ability to align strategies and drive corporate initiatives from implementation through support Work Experience Lead Application Engineer Vonage - Holmdel, NJ 2008 to Present Provided wide range of application and infrastructure development and implementation. Worked directly with multiple business owners (marketing, customer care, finance) to gather business requirements and translate into functional requirements. Worked in Waterfall, Agile, and DevOps.  • Manage and execute projects from proof of concept to production implementation including gathering business and functional requirements for multiple big rock initiatives. Worked directly with Business Analysts, development and Senior Management.  • Responsible for Corporate Marketing Websites including application design and implementation. Framework application infrastructure deployment architecture  • Led architectural review of WEB platform between in house hosting versus cloud-based hosting. Provided documentation of cost analysis and benefits with recommendation to Senior management.  • Implemented OpenText CMS platform that allows business owners the ability to create and deploy content to production platform 24x7. Created workflows that allowed for development, QA, review, approvals and production deployments with audit trail eliminating 98% of errors.  • Instituted new corporate standards for deployments that enhanced platforms for other areas of business resulting in quick time to market including Database deployments, rate plan updates, mobile, device settings.  • Updated application architecture to meet PCI requirements including separating front end and middle layer allowing SSL encryption through entire transaction for subscribe and online account platforms.  • Worked with Network Technical leads for Architecture and implementation of F5 GTM/LTMs allowing for critical systems redundancy and multi-site failover.  • Worked closely with a team of Realization Managers to formulate and execute deployment plans for integrated releases including understanding business requirements, feature delivery timing and marketing announcements. Maintained a 100% delivery SLA target with zero deployment related downtime year over year. Lead Systems Administrator SelectMinds - New York, NY 2006 to 2008 Oversight for all Systems, application, network, email and phones for the company.  • Project lead for new production environment including gathering requirements for new servers and network design, installation of servers and application and script testing and modification.  • Led the migration of new office network including new routers, firewall, phone system and ISP.  • Installed new enterprise mail server/collaboration suite, integrated with new Barracuda spam firewall and migrate imap mailboxes.  • Created and implemented Disaster Recovery procedures. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Rowan University - Glassboro, NJ Skills Devops, HTML, Javascript, Linux, XML Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/robert-kane-269b834 Additional Information Methodologies DevOps, Waterfall, Agile