Linux Systems Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator - Yahoo Brooklyn, NY Passionate Linux Systems Administrator with two years of experience in bare metal and virtual/cloud environments. Experience in analyzing, troubleshooting, maintaining, and deploying of systems and networks in diverse heterogeneous environments. I have worked in public/private cloud environments and have automation experience with multiple DevOps tools and have used APIs calls. Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator Yahoo - Lockport, NY April 2018 to Present • Responsible for daily system administration tasks such as maintaining servers, applying patches, disk management, job scheduling, User/group management and packages installation (using RPM and YUM) on Linux/Unix Systems such as Red Hat and Ubuntu.  • Performed day to day Red Hat Linux 5/6/7 tasks including troubleshooting, Installation, Maintenance and Administration.  • Used Nagios as IT infrastructure monitoring tool for monitoring host resources such as load average, disk usage, system logs; monitoring applications, services, and network protocols.  • Worked with network team to configure proper DNS and subnets on machines  • Used monitoring tools such as VMstat, Wireshark, tcpdump, nmap and sar to monitor system health, security and ports.  • Performed/rolled out quarterly patching and applied security patches on Linux systems to keep the systems updated and secured  • Configured build parameters and CI/CD pipeline on Jenkins to use it to automate deployment of VMs on the cloud for testing purposes  • Wrote python scripts to automate use of APIs with Python Requests Library.  • Setup yum repositories for the management of packages.  • Used Cronjobs to run scripts to automate daily system backups.  • Wrote/Debugged bash/python scripts to optimize and to automate routine tasks  • Created automated solutions for reoccurring issues by writing bash scripts and playbooks in ansible  • Provisioned VMware Virtual machines using vSphere/VCenter and installed Red Hat Linux 5/6/7 on the VMs.  • Applied Infrastructure automation through Ansible for provisioning, application deployment and configuration updates.  • Wrote Ansible Playbooks in YAML for configuration management, and app deployment to remote machines.  • Configured DHCP and TFTP servers for PXE boot setup.  • Synchronized server times using NTP.  • Assisted on a migration project on AWS migrating onsite VMs to the cloud.  • Experience working on AWS, spun ec2 instances, managed IAM accounts and worked with storage such as s3 buckets and EBS for cloud storage.  • Created roles, managed groups, and attached IAM permission policies to users using IAM in AWS.  • Uploaded and managed objects in the S3 buckets.  • Configured NIC bonds on Rhel 6/7 to increase the bandwidth and for redundancy.  • Used fdisk for disk management for new volumes added to the system and used LVM to create, extend, reduce logical volumes as needed.  • Created mount points to attach it to existing directory structures.  • Implemented Branching, Merging, Tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using version control tools like Git on Linux platforms.  • Managed version control tool Git to version code changes to help developers/programmers branch/merge code.  • Worked with ITSM and JIRA ticketing system for reporting system issues to other teams as required.  • Collaborated with different teams to find root cause of reoccurring issues and provided solutions to avoid future occurrences. Linux Systems Analyst GetFelix - New York, NY February 2017 to March 2018 • Assisted L3 in Racking and Stacking of Dell and HP Servers and configuration of RAID levels as required by the company.  • Experience in Provisioning both virtual machines and Bare Metal servers using PXE boot with kickstart to automate the installation of the OS.  • Created and managed Swap space as needed with methods of Performance and Kernel Tuning.  • Configured passwordless login with secure authentication for SSH.  • Configured Samba servers so that windows machines can access shared files, home directories and printers on Linux servers.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) users and groups for improved login authentication.  • Spun EC2 instances on AWS and used its features to provision, monitor, and distribute compute infrastructure.  • Updated YUM repositories with RPM packages as per client requests.  • Utilized pre-existing ansible playbooks to complete routine tasks such as rebooting servers, unattended app installation and backing up of root files system using cron jobs.  • Performed day to day administrative tasks such as creating user and group accounts, directory services, file system shares, and permissions.  • Administered User accounts and security groups which included creation, deletion, and setting permissions for users. Created users both manually and with useradd command.  • Managed multiple users using scripts such as creating and deleting users.  • Migrated local users and groups from one system to another using Rsync.  • Updated Documentation for team and helpdesk on how to perform certain tasks. Education Medgar Evers College - Brooklyn, NY January 2017 to Present Additional Information Skills  Linux, VMware, Ansible, AWS, Git, Bash Scripting, Python, Nagios, APIs