Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - Sunwest Bank Irvine, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer Sunwest Bank - Irvine, CA May 2015 to Present Key Responsibilities:  • Oversaw design, installation, configuration and maintenance large scale of Microsoft servers and applications / services  (Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, GPO, Exchange servers, Hyper-V and office 365).    • Provide direct support in the day-to-day operations on network hardware, operating systems, applications and VOIP for local and remote sites    • Maintaining virtualized architecture and Data Centers Infrastructure including design install and monitoring.    • Scheduling preventive maintenance, conducted periodic upgrade, identified potential problems/risk and engineered  potential solutions while assessing them for technical, business and budget feasibility.    • Provide technical assistance to end users regarding the use of computer hardware and software, including network  printing, installations, Mobile devices, e-mail, and operating systems.    • Managed routine job functions such as developing effective security policies and procedures, project documentation and technical specifications, installing, managing logon scripts, profiles and policies. Network Systems Engineer At Lan Wan Enterprise Inc - Irvine, CA March 2011 to May 2015 Key Responsibilities:    • Configure, maintain and monitor various customers network infrastructure.    • Performed data backups and disaster recovery operations without impacting routine business operations. Planned, coordinated, and implemented network security measures in order to protect data and resources.    • Implementing system hardware and/or software upgrades or repairs.    • Offered fundamental training for effective and optimum use of such systems and software installed. Assisted and resolved  any troubleshooting factory problems arising thereof.    • Provide technical assistance to end users regarding the use of computer hardware and software, including printing, installation, Mobile devices, e-mail, and operating systems. Network Administrator Nestlé Waters - Amman April 2008 to January 2011  Install new / rebuild existing servers and configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements.   • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments, including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.   • Coordinate and implement network security measures in order to protect data, software, and hardware.   • Monitor network performance in order to determine whether adjustments need to be made, and to determine where changes will need to be made in the future.  Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DNS, NETWORKING, CITRIX, DHCP, System Administrator, Vmware, SCCM, Cisco, Backup and disaster recovery, Hyper-V, Switching and Routing, O365, Data Storage, Switches