NOC Systems Administrator NOC <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Baltimore, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NOC Systems Administrator Bethesda Game Studios - Hunt Valley, MD July 2016 to February 2019 • Facilitated engineering teams in build and deploys of game products through each development state utilizing Jenkins, TeamCity and other build-management/continuous integration solutions.  • Coordinated identity and access management for multiple game studios.  • Assisted in migration of physical infrastructure to cloud-based solutions.  • Customer messaging for notification of maintenance windows and other in-game occurrences. NOC Systems Administrator Bethesda Game Studios - Hunt Valley, MD July 2016 to February 2019 • Developed internal web application to better facilitate Twitch award database updates for The Elder Scrolls: Legends saving time and resources across multiple teams.  • Responsible for incident logging, categorization and initial diagnosis of live game errors to prevent product downtime.  • Communicating to developers, vendors and public customers the status of changes and incidents.  • Monitor health of global environment to ensure errors are resolved before services are interrupted.  • Perform weekly ongoing performance tuning, hardware upgrades and resource optimization as required.  • Assisted vendors and engineering teams to upgrade, evaluate, test and install new hardware and software systems utilizing CI/CD best practices. Service Desk Technician Skyline Technology Solutions - Glen Burnie, MD December 2015 to February 2016 • Monitoring of Department of Transportation network  • Coordinated with vendors on status updates for state projects  • Update clients on ticket status and pending updates.  • Route calls to appropriate T2/T3 resources for Help Desk, SOC or NOC  • Clear utility ticket requests for digging fiber Education Associate in Network Administration Brightwood College - Towson, MD June 2014 to December 2015 Skills Linux, Vmware, Python (3 years), Bootstrap (1 year), AWS (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Network Administration (4 years), CSS3 (5 years), SQL (1 year), C# (1 year), Wordpress, Front End, HTML5, PHP, HTML, JIRA (3 years), Confluence (3 years), Change Management (3 years), Virtualization (3 years), Git (2 years) Links https://www.github.com/Rigil-Kent https://www.linkedin.com/in/bryancbailey