Clinical System Analyst Clinical <span class="hl">System</span> Analyst Clinical System Analyst - Ohio Valley Medical Center Wheeling, WV Clinical system Analyst/ System Administrator having 4+ years of experience in  Datawarehouse and Business Intelligence systems Administration, development,  design and maintenance which include requirements gathering, Business Analysis,  system architecture, preparing estimation, resources management, provide system  analysis, support, crystal reporting, SQL, Meditech M-AT report designing, SSRS,  VMware, McKesson star KB_SQL programming and handling system administration  in dynamic Healthcare information systems environment.    • Worked on SQL/PL SQL to create various stored procedures.  • Worked on Oracle, Visual Studio, SQL Server, MySQL and DB2 databases.  • Implemented LDAP Authentication in the recent Project.  • Installed Hot fixes, utilities, and patches released from Microsoft Corporation.  • Recently implemented PP42 update2 in Meditech 6.15.  • Fixed the bugs in DR server. Recently increased the SQLNET.EXPIRE_TIME value  to fix the bug by changing properties in sqlnet.ora file. Work Experience Clinical System Analyst Ohio Valley Medical Center - Wheeling, WV April 2018 to Present • Building reports and providing end user support of Meditech database during and after the hospital upgraded to 6.15 version from 5.67.  • Created new and existing Meditech application reports and data extracts for all  the modules like PCS, NUR, CWS and BAR in Meditech report designing and using Microsoft SQL Server.  • Deployed a unifying governance standard encompassing all applicable elements  of HIPAA.  • Created programs to send and receive account information to multiple outside agencies, consisting of initial account placements, daily transactions,  reconciliation and transaction notes.  • Gathered clinical requirements and build specifications from Meditech magic  5.67 to 6.15 and shared with the Clinical analysis team.  • Working with external agencies to ensure the information is correctly  processing.  • Engaged with management teams to organize, prioritize and complete work  requests.  • Analyzed and troubleshooted of patient financial accounts from billing to revenue collection.  • Produced and delivered mandatory state and federal information from the Meditech System.  • Performed parallel testing between Meditech magic 5.67 and 6.15 data  extracts, programs and file transfer process.  • Working with Analysts and end users to test the converted software and database tables.  • Maintained and reported status on conversion programming, testing and implementation to management.  • Upgraded over 320 M-AT Report designer queries, SQL queries and sub queries.  • Responsible for end users SQL reporting and data extract needs after go-live  with Meditech 6.15.  • Worked in the areas of ADT, Finance, Patient Care, Revenue Cycle, MedAssets, HL7 Interface error reporting and identified issues with in interface error  reporting & modified SQL programs for ICD10. System Administrator Antelope Valley Hospital - Lancaster, CA October 2016 to April 2018 Advanced to systems administrator role to provide IT leadership for hospital's  technology infrastructure. Manage large-scale enterprise migration projects and systems. Conversions and performance tuning and monitoring of applications and  systems.    • Designed and developed virtual/physical systems with the coordination from engineers from various teams. Maintained the hardware infrastructure to  support the production environment.  • Gathered requirements for enhancements to existing/new systems to support  the needs of the customer.  • Created and implemented an orientation program broad enough to cover all  end user applications, but detailed enough to provide adequate training to each  new employee, regardless of position.  • Analyzed all aspects of server upgrade deployment for 470 workstations  hospital wide to ensure smooth migration.  • Created desktop standardization and dashboards and provided ad-hoc reports  using MS Access and MySQL Query Analyzer.  • Created new oracle and SQL Server databases for various Peoplesoft Suites with all related web components like Web Server, Application Server and third party  applications.  • Virtualized over 1300 desktop PCs and 150 servers, thereby cutting energy  consumption and reducing downtime to a minimum.  • Provided McKesson Star and FormFast support and reporting in Patient  Accounting, Revenue Cycle, McKesson Clinicals Emergency Department, Orders, Charting and more.  • Wrote, modified and debugged reports using Crystal Reports, Business  Intelligence, KB-SQL, Power Insight Business Intelligence, MS SQL Server and SSRS.  • Created bi-directional Information flow to and from Managed Care, other  ancillary facilities and outside agencies.  • Supported and maintained the SFTP environment(FileZilla, WinSCP) scripting. System's Analyst Number's Only - Dallas, TX June 2016 to October 2016 Tested applications and resolved complex problems throughout software  development lifecycle SDLC, including preparing detailed specifications.  • Created data verification methods and comply with standard system  procedures.  • Had In-depth understanding of project lifecycle, including all phases of system and software development.  • Provided support for the development and maintenance of stage, test, and development environments for distributed applications Systems Engineer Classic Technologies - IN April 2013 to December 2014 Worked with other groups such as Software Engineering, Configuration  Management personnel to facilitate tasks completion.  • Consistently applied learned processes, procedures and workflows to include  however not limited to the software and/or hardware environments in one  domain.  • Identified solutions to evaluate in support of software development process  improvement.  • Resolved issues of and navigates obstacles to deliver work product.  • Researched new infrastructure technology trends, assessing their utility and developing concept of operations for deployment within IDS.  • Acquired and applied broad knowledge of the business, its products, and processes. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University - Kingsville, TX May 2016 Bachelor's of Technology in Computer Science in Technology Amrita University June 2013 Skills DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, DB2, MS ACCESS, SQL SERVER