VMware Engineer, and Microsoft Windows Systems Administrator VMware Engineer, and Microsoft Windows <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> VMware Engineer, and Microsoft Windows Systems Administrator New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience VMware Engineer, and Microsoft Windows Systems Administrator Dell 2003 to 2008 10+ years of IT professional experience as VMware Engineer, and Microsoft Windows Systems Administrator for Implementation and Support of Windows 2016, 2012 R2, 2012, 2008 R2, 2008, 2003, 2000 and NT Servers on HP, Dell, IBM and Compaq Blade Servers.  ? Hands on Experience in Installing, Configuring & Troubleshooting VMware ESX 6.5/6.0/ 5.5/5.1/5.0/4.1/4.0/3.5, vSphere 6.x/5.x/4.x, vCenter or Virtual Center 2.5 servers. Configuring VM's on ESX server and installing hosts and Migrating Virtual Machines across various VMware ESX Server, Workstation and VMware servers.  ? Extensive experience in migration of servers P2P, P2V and V2V by using VMware Converter, Xenconverter, Acornis and Platespin  ? Experienced in WINS, DNS, DHCP, Virtual Server Administration, and Patch Management on Microsoft Windows Servers.  ? Architect and manage CLOUD infrastructure (cloudstack) to provide SAAS, PAAS and IAAS.  ? Basic knowledge of AWS and Microsoft Azure  ? Different Clustering configuration on physical and virtual environment  ? Involved in migration process from 2003 to 2008 and 2012 windows servers  ? Installed, Configured and Supported Intel or AMD based HP Proliant DL360, DL380, DL580 Servers, BL460c, BL20p Blade Servers, and Dell Power Edge Servers.  ? Extensively worked on VMotion, Storage VMotion and Microsoft Active Directory.  ? Experience with VMware vCenter Lab Manager for installing and maintaining the operating systems, deploying and managing the applications.  ? Involved in upgrading the existing Servers with latest Service Packs, Security Patches.  ? Experience in analyzing and troubleshooting Microsoft Windows Server hardware, Software applications and clustered environment issues.  ? Extensive experience in managing Data Center environment with Administering, Installing, and Troubleshooting Microsoft Servers and Workstations.  ? Hands on experience in deploying VMware view, thin client computing.  ? Strong understanding of virtualization architectures for various hypervisor types; VMware networking implementation including creation of vSwitches, port groups, connection types, network traffic and, security policy setting by NIC Teaming, load balancing, beacon traffic, notification to switches for connectivity problems and, connectivity with storage using iSCSI, NAS and SAN storages.  ? Experience in resource management framework like creation resource pools, adding the VMs into resource pools.  ? Hands on experience in adding VLAN port, VSwitches and NIC adapters in VMware.  ? Good understanding on storage types including iSCSI, NAS and SAN, VM creation capable file systems including VMFS and NFS; NetApp SAN technologies such as LUN creation, LUN masking, zoning, and LUN addressing.  ? Hands on Experience with configuring NetApp storage Plugin Virtual Storage Console (VSC).  ? Excellent experience on implementing VMware virtual center and vCenter Server for centralized management of ESX hosts; setting up automated V-Motion, configuring HA and DRS clusters, using EVC on as needed basis; knowledge of VMware products such as VMware workstation and VMware converter.  ? Hands on Experience in providing Production support on 24/7 for Windows Servers.  ? Provided daily, weekly and monthly reports on the existing Windows Servers and suggested up gradations of server licenses.  ? Knowledge on VMware ESX Server security tasks creating and applying Roles and Permission within Active Directory Users and Groups, Configuring VMotion, Resource Pool, and DRS, HA Cluster, cloning and migrating VM machines.  ? On demand Application installations on Servers  ? Efficiently coordinated with the Technical Support Team and Vendor to resolve the problem.  ? Expertise in System administration of Microsoft products like Windows server 2000/2003/2008/2012 on x86bit and x64bit hardware.  ? Hands on experience with standing Up DR site in-house and at specific vendors like Sunguard.  ? Proficient in Active Directory, Group policy, DNS, DHCP and FTP environment.  ? Experience in the design, development and test of disaster recovery.  ? Worked on HP, Dell and IBM server class hardware.  ? Strong problem solving skills and a strong knowledge of ITIL Processes.  ? Have good communication (verbal and written), analytical & problem solving skills, a committed team player as well as an independent worker, able to work with minimum supervision and to manage multiple tasks simultaneously. Education DRS in Hospital for Special Surgery Vcenter/ Virtual Center Server 2016 DSM in virtual and physical Created and Maintained Data Center Inventory and Elevations using November 2012 to June 2013 Physical Virtual Center September 2011 to October 2012 switches in the data center July 2009 to August 2011 BMC 2008 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Active Directory