Senior IT Consultant Senior IT Consultant Senior IT Consultant - PC Age Career Institute San Diego, CA Work Experience Senior IT Consultant PC Age Career Institute - Parsippany, NJ June 2017 to Present Purchased new hardware for all locations of the school. Including student workstations, instructor workstations, and servers.  ? Imaged all workstations with MDT and WDS. Installed all required applications.  ? Upgraded infrastructure by getting wired network connectivity installed.  ? Reviewed and developed lesson plans for basic and advanced courses. (A+, Network+, Security+, Server)  ? Tutored failing students and helped them pass courses/tests to remain in the school. IT Project Administrator Diversified Media Group - Kenilworth, NJ March 2017 to June 2017 Implemented RADIUS to be used on all switches and routers.  ? Configured players to be used in kiosks or "Video Walls" for companies such as, but not limited to, Nordstrom, The Home Depot, and SIMON.  ? Created group policies and registry modifications to lock Windows 7 & 10 machines down to be used in public locations. All machines needed to meet different SLA's depending on the company.  ? Worked with MDM for full tablet control. (IPAD & Android Tablets)  ? Created Proxies for filtering traffic and SNMP traps to monitor off-site equipment. Senior IT Tech Consultant Ophthotech - New York, NY July 2016 to January 2017 Established a new hire and termination process that met all audit requirements.  ? Created user training documents for the whole company to assist with accessing VPN, enabling Hotspots, and password changes.  ? Upgraded management server from Absolute Manage to LANrev and upgraded ticketing system from Absolute Service to LiveTime.  ? Asset management, MDM, and software deployment via LANrev.  ? Desktop and remote support for CEO, VP's, legal, finance, drug safety, patent department, Human Resources. Systems Engineer Peapack-Gladstone Bank - Bedminster, NJ August 2014 to July 2016 SCCM Management - Application deployment/removal, upgrades, queries/reports, device/user collections.  ? Installed, configured, tested and maintained operating systems and application software with SCCM.  ? Upgraded DFS environment from 2008 to 2012R2.  ? Built a high available DHCP environment with automatic fail over on 2012R2 servers. Configured scopes for  ? computers, IP phones, PXE imaging, SCCM.  ? Migrated Symantec environment on to 2012R2 server. Synced SEPM to LDAP. Configured client policies that followed security regulations. Configured a GUP for each 23 locations so clients receive updates/definitions locally.  ? Utilized Scrutinizer to monitor network traffic for each location. Diagnosed high-use bandwidth locations to find out the cause and then took proper actions to remedy it.  ? Built Backup Exec environment and configured the clients to back up data during non-business hours.  ? Active Directory Management - Created and managed user and computer accounts. Created and managed distribution lists and security groups.  ? Exchange Management - Created and managed mailboxes. Maintained the DAG, CAS arrays, and ActiveSync.  ? Airwatch Management - Created MDM profiles provisioned to meet company requirements. Initiated a BYOD program for employees.  ? Symantec Endpoint Protection Management - Ensured all devices on the network had a working, reporting, up-to-date client.  ? Symantec Backup Exec Management- Created and managed backups (full & incremental) of all servers and critical VM's. Jr Systems Administrator SCCM, SCOM, Hyper-V, VMWare March 2014 to August 2014 Upgraded over 300 computers from Windows XP to Windows 7 with SCCM.  ? Configured Cisco VOIP phones.  ? Provided 2nd and 3rd level technical support and troubleshooting to internal and external clients.  ? Deployed Dells' encryption program DDP-ST to all company laptops.  ? Utilized Item Level Targeting GPO's for printer and drive mapping. Created shortcuts, set IE favorites, and configured automated windows updates.  ? Tested then upgraded internal IT systems to the latest releases. I.E: SCCM, SCOM, Hyper-V, VMWare.  ? Managed VMware and Hyper-V hosts - Created new VM's, P2V on physical machines and V2V on virtual machines.  ? Upgraded VMware ESXi 5 to 6 and upgraded Hyper-V from 2008R2 to 2012R2. Systems Administrator QPharma - Morristown, NJ October 2013 to February 2014 Managed and monitored all installed systems and infrastructure to ensure the highest level of availability.  ? Maintained server room and upgraded hardware and server operating systems to Windows Server 2012.  ? Installed, configured, tested and maintained operating systems, application software and system management tools.  ? Setup windows desktops and laptops and all types of mobile devices.  ? Built and provided basic end-user troubleshooting and desktop support. Education Information Technology PC Age Career Institute - Edison, NJ Skills Active Directory (1 year), Disaster Recovery (Less than 1 year), Exchange (1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Security (2 years) Additional Information Skills  Security/ Vulnerability Assessment Virtualization Cisco UCS Batch/Powershell Scripts Linux Exchange & Office 365  Azure/Amazon Web Services VMWare & Hyper-V Windows Servers Cisco Switches/Routers Active Directory Backup & Disaster Recovery