Intelligence Surveillance Reconnaissance Systems Engineer/ Administrator Intelligence Surveillance Reconnaissance <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer/<span class="hl">Administrator</span> Intelligence Surveillance Reconnaissance Systems Engineer/ Administrator - United States Marine Corps Miami, FL Experienced and dedicated Corporal/E-4 Intelligence Surveillance Reconnaissance Systems  Engineer/ Administrator with an active Top-Secret Security clearance, and 5 years of proven  experience. Able to quickly understand priorities and system constraints and adapt systems to  meet users unique needs. Equally capable of working alone, or as a member of a team, and  comfortable exercising critical thinking and problem solving. Managed risk upon multiple lines  to protect assets, property, and equipment valued over $10M while meeting the expectations of  senior leadership. Ability to distill complicated information into clear messages for a multitude of  audiences, and ensure designated objectives are met. Work Experience Intelligence Surveillance Reconnaissance Systems Engineer/ Administrator United States Marine Corps December 2014 to Present • Responsible for establishing and maintaining dedicated and reliable primary, secondary, and tertiary Special Compartmented Information (SCI) communication networks.  • Responsible for requesting, retrieving, distributing and the timely destruction of all  cryptographic material and Communications Electronic Operating Instructions (CEOI).  • Responsible for set-up, day-to-day operation, and maintenance of the Hawkeye LITE III  system, providing full-spectrum connectivity as required.  • Supervise all aspects of Detachment systems administration accountable for all team  T/E including cryptographic controlled items (CCI), Classified Material Controlled Center  (CMCC), and serialized/non-serialized Consolidated Memorandum of Receipt (CMR)  items.  • Ensure team equipment/gear is properly maintained to include accountability and cleanliness of all SL-3 components, maintain record jackets, and perform regular  inspections/preventive maintenance as required. Intelligence Surveillance Reconnaissance Systems Engineer/ Administrator December 2018 to July 2019 Used computers and computer systems to enter data and process information.  ? Assisted in the successful network setup of Technical Control Center.  ? Supervised and advised entry level employees on approved practices of operating  communication security devices and associated equipment.  ? Planned, employed and maintained signal support systems to include, Local Area  Network (LAN), satellite radios, wires, automated telecommunications systems and network integration using radio and communication and support electronic equipment.  ? Installed, maintained, and assisted users with automated support systems, terminal  devices, satellite communications equipment, and automated telecommunications  computer systems.  ? Trained and provided technical assistance to users of signal equipment and information  systems.  ? Maintained accurate accountability of assigned equipment valued $1M with 0 loss or discrepancies; Analyzed and repaired various equipment for the continuous mission of  the organization.  Signals Intelligence/Electronic Intelligence Operator/Analyst  • Leveraged several national databases to provide a clear intelligence picture to the commander.  • Effortlessly created over 50 serialized intelligence reports in support of Coalition  operations in Iraq and Syria.  • Directly supported over 15 combat patrols during Operation Inherent Resolve (Syria).  • Contributed to over 90 daily all-source intelligence briefs, 12 weekly Top Secret/SCI  signals intelligence briefs, and 12 electronic intelligence briefs. Education High School Diploma Robert Morgan Educational Center August 2009 to June 2013 Skills NETWORK OPERATIONS, DATA ANALYTICS, HELP DESK, OPERATIONS, System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, Linux