Regional Sales Representative Regional Sales Representative Systems Administrator Edmond, OK Work Experience Regional Sales Representative Cellular Sales - Oklahoma City, OK June 2018 to April 2019 • Worked as a third party representative for Verizon selling, fixing, and processing mobile devices including Phones, Tablets, and watches.  • Day to day customer interaction without receiving a complaint from a customer.   • Professionalism representing a company, not just myself.  • Self motivated reaching out to third party sources seeking information/training beyond what was tought Systems Administrator United States AF - Langley AFB, VA April 2013 to September 2016 Database Administrator for 2 Air Force servers and 1 for the base Crisis Action Team.  ? Lead System Administrator for both the Air Force Deployment and Air Force Logistics Servers  ? Server Administration as well as applying patches, updates and day to day maintenance to 7 test and 3 live systems  ? Hardware maintenance for Government servers/switches/ and other general network equipment.  ? Customer service consisting of account management, and cooperation between Multiple Companies in planning major system updates/user downtime mitigation.  ? Developed a fix action for a major security vulnerability.  ? Lead tech when applying patches to 2 of our 3 major systems. Security Escort of Foreign United States AF April 2013 to September 2016 nationals from many European and Middle Eastern nations Education Certification in Job Training Cyber Systems Operator Specialization School January 2013 to April 2013 Skills SECURITY (3 years), DATABASE (3 years), SERVER ADMINISTRATION (3 years), DATABASE ADMINISTRATION (Less than 1 year), HARDWARE TROUBLESHOOTING (Less than 1 year), Linux, Linux Administrator, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory Additional Information Skills  Broad range of general knowledge including Database Administration, Scripting, Hardware Troubleshooting, and Network Security Setup. With specialization in Problem Resolution and Linux Server Administration.