Metro Ethernet Engineer 2/Network Support- Contractor Metro Ethernet Engineer 2/Network Support- Contractor Metro Ethernet Engineer 2/Network Support- Contractor Schaumburg, IL Work Experience Metro Ethernet Engineer 2/Network Support- Contractor Ranstad Technology - Naperville, IL October 2018 to March 2019 • Planned and worked with team members to implement new features, upgrades, hardware, and patches in the production environment with the knowledge of the circuit design, turn up, and test.  • Implemented configurations on CPE and core devices such as Ciena 3916/3930, Cisco ASR 9000, Juniper MX960 equipment.  • Assisted field engineers and customers through phone and remote support to install CPE configurations, turn up management/customer vlans and verify connectivity to Comcast's network.  • Installed new circuits and tested connectivity between sites to ensure circuit works as designed.  • Worked with tier 3 engineering teams to update core and CPE configurations to rectify issues and improve network performance  • Brought issues to project managers attention to properly set project and customer expectations Systems Engineer/ Administrator Ceannate, Inc - Schaumburg, IL January 2017 to September 2018 Network engineer responsible for advancing the company infrastructure by planning, designing, and implementing new technologies.  • Participated in Microsoft Azure upgrade process to move on-premises devices to the cloud. Implemented new VMs and assisted in creating new infrastructure from beginning to end.  • Lead monthly upgrades and patches to all server computer systems through WSUS and SWPM. Deployed SWPM automation role on WSUS server for this specific role.  • Lead and implemented new AV suites by replacing Sophos with ESET. Automated installation of AV agents through GP and created triggers to automatically install AV suite on all applicable systems as they join the domain. Negotiated renewal cost to include 6 extra months of AV protection free of charge.  • Lead monthly upgrades and patches to all server computer systems through WSUS and SWPM. Deployed SWPM automation role on WSUS server for this specific role.  • Implemented automated patching procedure in conjunction with Labtech Automate software to save 80 of hours of engineering labor per month.  • Cross-trained team members in help desk and desktop support to further broaden their skillset. Network Administrator Bisco, Inc - Schaumburg, IL April 2016 to November 2016 Ensure the stable operation of computer hardware, software systems and network infrastructure, including routers, switches, servers, and VOIP telephony.  • Installed and maintained data communications hardware and software as well as performing equipment repairs and troubleshooting network and systems issues.  • Assembled, built, and configured network and associated services with different hardware vendors.  • Performed various projects, most notable; Building and configuring remote administration platform for endpoint security suite, upgraded computer security protocols through group policy.  • Improved sales operations by upgrading the sales CRM software to Salesforce from home grown and upgraded the shipping platform from Starship to UPS Shipping Manager.  • Lead monthly upgrades and patches to all server and computer systems through WSUS. Created and implemented WSUS server for this specific role. Network Operations Center Technician - Contractor FTD Companies - Downers Grove, IL November 2015 to April 2016 Performed performance trend analysis and managed server/network capacity. Implemented technical solutions to enhance and troubleshoot systems.  • Repaired and implemented various technologies for data center, including; installing server systems, cabling, and backup solutions. Assisted network engineers with troubleshooting core equipment as needed.  • Provided initial fault isolation to actively troubleshoot and diagnose problems.  • Resolved production incidents by working with internal and external technology support organizations.  • Performed troubleshooting techniques in attempt to resolve incidents in regards to network, telecom, server, back-up environment, and data center locations.  • Executed the daily, weekly, monthly operational monitoring and reporting of Network Operations Center. Remote Administrator, Veeam, Sage ERP, BPCS ESET Endpoint Security 2016 to 2016 Software: Microsoft Office 2007-2016, Microsoft Outlook/Exchange 2007-2016, Active Directory/Group Policy, Hyper-V, BMC Remedy, VMWare vSphere/vCenter V6, Spiceworks, Avamar, IBM iSeries, AS400, ESET Endpoint Security/Remote Administrator, Veeam, Sage ERP, BPCS,  MS SQL Server 2008 - 2017, SolarWinds Patch Manager  Operating  Systems: Windows XP/Vista/7-10, Windows Server 2003-2016, Mac OS, Ubuntu, CentOS  Telephony: Cisco Unified Communication Manager, Cisco VOIP Phones Help Desk/Desktop Support Technician - Contractor Nelson Westerberg, Inc - Elk Grove Village, IL June 2015 to October 2015 Help Desk Technician - Contractor Abbott Laboratories - Abbott Park, IL July 2014 to June 2015 Education Associate of Applied Science (A.A.S.) in Computer Science Elgin Community College - Elgin, IL December 2012 Skills Active Directory, Cisco, Security, DNS, VPN, Vmware Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/giannisliapis