Corporate Systems Administrator Corporate <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Corporate Systems Administrator - Abrigo Austin, TX Experienced IT professional with expertise in Windows-based server and desktop environments, and networking. Outstanding customer service skills focused on resolving technical issues and educating end-users. Provides significant contributions to team and individual success. Work Experience Corporate Systems Administrator Abrigo February 2018 to Present • Monitor, maintain and administer both on-prem and cloud-based infrastructures and networks  • I.T. related problem determination and solution design  • Execute multiple projects simultaneously  • Technical systems integration following M&A  • Image deployment configuration and execution  • Hardware procurement  • Employee onboarding  • Policy and process creation, implementation, and documentation  • End user support and education Jr. Cloud Consultant 2017 to 2017 Sr. Help Desk, Jr. Net. / Sys. Admin  • Monitor, manage, maintain, and repair production hardware and software for many small to medium sized businesses  • Consult with clients and recommend improvements to existing infrastructure and increase efficiency  • Take ownership of assignments, requests, projects, and issues; and through non-assumptive analyzation, achieve understanding of the issue or request and perform troubleshooting, resolution and implementation using the tools and team available IT Analyst Rogers O'Brien Construction 2016 to 2017 • VMWare, Windows Server, Active Directory, Exchange, Spam Filter, and Firewall administration  • Collaborate with ISPs to bring connectivity to sites without physical addresses using GPS coordinates or other means  • Install, configure, and support networking equipment and workstations for new construction sites  • Monitor and respond to helpdesk service requests. Managed IT Services Field Technician MIKSAN Consulting 2015 to 2016 Systems & Network Administrator  • Performed monitoring, maintenance and backup of multiple Windows Server environments for 20+ clients.  • Installed anti-virus, firewalls and managed rule set.  • Completed server and PC hardware assemblies.  • Performed audio/video cabling and hardware installations.  • Planned and organized office moves using project management procedures.  • Maintained and serviced printers and other hardware. Exchange Server Administrator Microsoft 2014 to 2015 Contract 2014 to 2015  Office 365 Business Productivity Online Services - Dedicated/International Traffic in Arms Exchange Server Administrator  • Handle inbound technical support calls, or emails from global IT Pros.  • Drive resolutions on critical technical issues.  • Collaborate with other teams as the customer advocate.  • Triage issues through impact assessment and initial investigation.  • Investigate break/fix issues to find successful resolutions.  • Maintain active investigations keeping the customer informed over multiple days.  • Troubleshoot and/or escalate issue until resolution. Education Lanphier High School - Springfield, IL 2004 Skills Dns, Firewalls, Networking, Deployment, Dhcp, Security, Microsoft office, Pbx, Workstations, Microsoft windows, System Admin, Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Microsoft Office 365, Microsoft Azure Infrastructure Solutions, PBX Solutions, Backup and BDR, Microsoft Office Desktop Software, Microsoft Windows Workstations / Desktop OS, Microsoft Windows Servers / Server OS, Networking, Security and Compliance, Virtual Desktop Infrastructure, Group Policy, Image Deployment, DHCP, DNS, AV, Firewalls,