Data Systems Administrator Data <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oceanside, CA Work Experience Data Systems Administrator United States Marine Corps June 2016 to Present My first year in the Marine Corps I was trained to be a Cyber Network Operator. I learned Networking and System Administration. My second year I was transferred to the 7th Communication Battalion in Okinawa, Japan. In Okinawa I was tasked with installing and setting up networks for training operations with regional partners including the Japanese Self Defense Force, South Korean Army, Australian Army, and the Mongolian Armed Forces. At the same time I was in charge of maintenance and repair for over $16 million dollars of Data and Networking equipment. I was assigned as the Network Lead for the Joint Task Force in the Philippines during Operation Balikatan 2018. Shortly after I was offered the choice to stay a Networker or move on to Systems Administration. I chose the Systems Administrator path and was transferred to fill a Cyber Security position at the III MEF MAGTF Network Operations Center until May 4th 2019. I was then transferred to 7th Engineering Support Battalion Camp Pendleton, California where I assigned as the Assistant Data Chief in the Communications section. Education High school or equivalent Skills Active Directory (3 years), System Administrator (2 years), Vmware, Network Administration (2 years), Network Management (1 year), Troubleshooting (3 years), Cyber security (1 year), System Admin, Cisco (3 years) Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Corporal June 2016 to Present Certifications/Licenses Security+ December 2018 to December 2021 Secret Security Clearance June 2016 to June 2026 Assessments Technical Support — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yhclg0wytkdhdil1 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.