Linux Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Security Engineer | Consolidated Afloat Network and Enterprise Services - US Navy, Yokosuka JP Memphis, TN Calculated Cyber Security professional and Military Veteran with 4+ years of proven experience and expertise in designing, implementing, and troubleshooting network infrastructure and security. Superior capacity to solve complex problems regarding a wide range of information systems, working under pressure in a fast paced environment and adaptability in all scenarios. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux Administrator U.S. Navy - Yokosuka January 2017 to June 2019 -The first point of contact to troubleshoot and mitigate all issues regarding Linux servers across 6 enclaves, automating processes to ensure log sizes stay in a usable range and within the age compliance of DoD systems.  -Streamlined the process of resolving server complications, patching, and common snags by creating documentation and standard operating procedures for fellow technicians and upper management.  -Implemented patches and security updates in accordance with DoD Fleet Advisory Messages and guides for absolute compliance on Naval Networks Information Systems Watch Officer U.S. Navy - Yokosuka January 2017 to June 2019 -Domain, Network, Firewall, and Linux Administrator of 7 enclaves on CANES.  -Managed back-up/recovery solution utilizing Veritas Backup Exec and EMC Networker.  -Provided direct customer service and great telephone etiquette improving customer feedback for the Information Systems Department.  -Produced documentation regarding best practices and implementation procedures for several key systems within DoD including Microsoft Windows 2008 R2, Microsoft Exchange 2010, and Microsoft Threat Management Gateway.   -Subject Matter Expert and lead technician for ACAS and NTP Linux server issues and daily maintenance. Cyber Security Analyst U.S. Navy - Yokosuka June 2016 to June 2019 -The first point of contact to troubleshoot and mitigate all communication issues and eradicate network intrusions, violations, and malicious software. Administered applications such as McAfee Host Based Security System (HBSS), Symantec Endpoint Encryption (SEE), Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS), and Microsoft Internet Security and Acceleration (ISA)/Threat Management Gateway (TMG) servers on DoD networks.  -Attentively monitored and managed Host-Based Security System (HBSS), Security Information and Event Management (SIEM), Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS) and Retina Network Security Scanner for USS Blue Ridge to guarantee outstanding security posture on CANES network.  -Effectively conducted six investigations of spillage and fifteen investigations of suspicious network activity certifying maximum security posture for CANES network.   -Monitored and maintained USS Blue Ridge’s Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Cyber, and Intelligence (C5I) Across 7 enclaves, ensuring 100% security compliance, resulting in USS Blue Ridge being recognized for Outstanding Cyber Hygiene by Commander, Naval Surface Force Pacific.  -Integrated six programs of record (POR) on CANES by implementing program-specific policies for absolute compliance.  -Routinely altered and configured Cisco Firewalls and Access Control Lists (ACL) onboard USS Blue Ridge resulting in zero incidents of unauthorized access.   -Developed, implemented, and troubleshot scans as ACAS Analyst using both Nessus and Retina Scanners.  -Swift and efficient incident response, mitigating all security incidents and investigating all network anomalies.  -Modified and tailored scans and systems as VRAM Site User.  -Played a key role as Subject Matter Expert in ensuring security baseline met Command Cyber criteria for excellent rating during security audit. Guided peers and subordinates in tactics, techniques, and procedures. Systems Administrator U.S. Navy - Yokosuka March 2016 to June 2019 -Spearheaded the implementation and maintenance of USS Blue Ridge’s PASCAC system, allowing a more efficient and reliable method of personnel accountability.  -Instrumental in weekly reboots and updates of all servers across multiple enclaves to ensure the most up to date and secure system.  -Played a key role in migrating the ISNS network from onsite to a separate location while upgrading to CANES network.  -Created and maintained functionality of 5000+ user accounts (foreign and domestic) and 1500+ distribution groups within Active Directory across 6 enclaves on shipboard networks. Help Desk Technician U.S. Navy - Yokosuka February 2016 to June 2016 -Strengthened customer relations and satisfaction by providing top-tier customer service and phone etiquette and resolving all customer issues and concerns in a timely and polite manner. Education Information Systems Technician "A" School February 2016 Skills Information Security, Network Security, Siem, Cyber Security, Nessus, HBSS Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-5 Awards Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal 2019-04 USMAP Certificate of Completion 1038N 2017-12 Internetworking Technician (5000 Hours) USMAP Certificate of Completion 0817N 2019-03 Computer Operator (2000 Hours) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ March 2017 to March 2021 CompTIA Linux+ March 2018 to March 2021 CompTIA A+ October 2015 to March 2021 Assessments Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v7ukdymk5h7thqgi Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/aioiauwb0kndd1a Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kwlycc3acc-q6gq5 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.