VDI Engineer\ Systems Administrator VDI Engineer\<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> VDI Engineer\ Systems Administrator - Liberty Mutual Londonderry, NH SENIOR SYSTEMS ENGINEER with over 15 years of experience in troubleshooting, designing and supporting: Windows Server 2008\2012\2018, Windows 7\8\10 and Office 365. Special skills in applications such as Avamar\Data Domain, Ivanti, NetBackup 7.5, Unitrends, Thycotic IPAM, Salesforce, ServiceNow, SolarWinds, Altiris, ConfigMgr.2012, RES, Citrix XenApp\XenDesktop, Microsoft APP-V, Microsoft Office 2010\2013, Desktop Virtualization, VMware, Hyper-V, Vre, Vro, Vmware Converter, Epic Hyperspace 2015, IIS, Microsoft Tools as well as extensive knowledge in Application Functional Testing\QA and Application Lifecycle Management, Hardware\Software Roadmaps. Recognized and awarded for customer satisfaction. Outstanding interpersonal and communication skills. Work Experience VDI Engineer\ Systems Administrator Liberty Mutual June 2019 to Present • Provides operational system administration support for enterprise applications in a high availability, 24x7x365 environment.  • Performs IT functions such as design, analysis, evaluation, testing, debugging and implementation of VMware infrastructure in support of one or more functional areas.  • Analyzes, installs, acquires, modifies and supports operating systems, database or utilities software.  • Performs troubleshooting, resolution and problem analysis.  • Monitors alerting systems and servers.  • Executes test processes and scenarios, track results, and make recommendations of system fixes.  • Integration and automation within VMware, vxRail, Vra, Vro, VDE and other applications.  • Extensive experience working interactively with business customers and resolving day to day VDI related issues.  • Extensive experience upgrading and patching the VmWare Windows 7 and 10 Templates to meet security, audit and business requirements.  • Hands on experience supporting and maintaining Windows 7/10 operating system in a VDI environment.  • Hands on experience maintaining Windows Server 2008 and later, preferably 2016 and above.  • Hands on experience with VMware vSphere 6.0 and later.  • Extensive experience creating technical documentation. Sr. Systems Engineer Bank of NH November 2018 to April 2019 • Responsible for all backups via NetBackup 8.1  • Manage the installation, configuration and monitoring of the bank's computer infrastructure, including application servers, storage solutions, LAN\WANS and DR related infrastructure.  • Manage and maintain Windows Server 2008\2012\2016  • Develop and document operational procedures to support systems and networks.  • Responsible for SolarWinds Monitoring  • Manage and maintain VMware environment  • Build, deploy and configure Domain Controllers  • Assist with patching using Ivanti 7.4  • Responsible for racking, installing and configuring all Dell Server hardware in the Data Center Sr. Systems Engineer HealthEdge September 2017 to November 2018 • Virtualization and storage management for SaaS product  • Designed and managed VMWare, EMC XIO, EMC VMax, EMC VNX, NetApp in a multi datacenter environment  • Engineered solution and implementation of 38+ SAAS customers Citrix XenApp 7.15 CU3 LTSR environment for different customers range from Medium to small environments on VMWare VxRail hypervisor environment.  • Application migration from old Citrix XenApp 6.0 and XenApp 4.5 environments to new Citrix environment as well as Office 365 administration..  • Engineered client internal XenDesktop 7.15 CU3 LTSR environment for offshore and external users for an alternative and cost effective solution from AWS.  • Engineered Solution of NetScaler VPX for each Citrix XenApp farm customers  • Enterprise data protection, disaster recovery management and planning  • Avamar\DataDomain backup design and implementation Citrix\Server Engineer Partners HealthCare April 2015 to August 2017 • Upgrading and deploying enterprise applications from a Citrix 4.5 environment to XenApp 6.5 and 7.6 as well as documenting and creating detailed follow up for all Application deployments.  • Provide technical support for problems and changes as they relate to Partners Windows OS Infrastructure that is managed by the Workspace Service Delivery Team.  • Ensuring Infrastructure projects follow appropriate project lifecycle, formal testing procedures and transition responsibilities with full training when appropriate.  • Assess business requirements; design world-class virtualization solutions, leveraging best practices and best-of-breed technologies.  • Install and configure software and Epic related infrastructure components  • Install and configure software and Citrix related infrastructure components.  • Design, perform, and document system integration tasks  • Evaluation of tools/products related to Citrix XenApp/XenDesktop.  • Monitors ongoing systems performance, anticipates problems before they occur and proposes solutions.  • Technical consultation on projects Infrastructure Desktop Engineer DentaQuest November 2014 to March 2015 • Evaluate equipment and software including desktop, laptop, PDA, operating systems, network printers, desktop\laptop software, system management tools and other computing software and hardware.  • Upgraded over 1000 workstations from SEP11 to SEP12 Anti-virus software  • Design, with a high degree of customer satisfaction, technical expertise and efficiency, a cost effective, high quality Desktop computing environment.  • Create documentation for installing and supporting new systems in a corporate environment, underlying problems on newly engineered solutions.  • Acts as a liaison between project team members, customers, and helpdesk\ installation team to ensure projects are implemented seamlessly. Education Associates Fisher State College November 1996 to January 1998 Associates Stonehill College May 1992 to May 1993