SCCM ADMINISTRATOR SCCM <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> SCCM ADMINISTRATOR - TOYOTETSU NORTH AMERICA, INC Charleston, SC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SCCM ADMINISTRATOR TOYOTETSU NORTH AMERICA, INC October 2018 to Present Through managing and engineering the SCCM infrastructure of 6 offsite locations, and 1 onsite location, I effectively organize software deployments and hardware organization. Through SCCM I verify all computers are up to date and secure to be in our environment., I manage all devices, applications, operating systems, user and device collections, and various other tools, across 6 sites in North America. From creating new operating system images to be used during PC deployment, to creating user security groups inside Active Directory and SCCM. I manage all distribution points for each site, verifying they can install applications in a timely manner. Users are also able to properly and easily install the software they need based upon their Active Directory/SCCM group they are placed in, and/or receive a computer that has all the software to best fit their needs. Updates and Endpoint Protection are utilized in order to maintain updated protection definitions on all devices, using automatic deployment rules and schedules within SCCM. Using Microsoft SQL Server 2017, I can run queries to determine various information on any device on the network, or I can use the reporting tools inside SCCM to find the same information. As the SCCM administrator, I also vet software requested by users, to ensure it is plausible to allow on our network. These are only some of the responsibilities I am administering, through the growth and development of technology and the company, the responsibilities continuously increase, and I apply the skills and knowledge I have acquired daily to ensure I complete whatever task might arise. JUNIOR SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR QUIKAID, INC April 2018 to October 2018 During my time here, I actively worked with the CIO to write the line of business application in Microsoft Visual Studio, using Visual Studio Team Services before migrating to GitHub. Writing the application, I used C#, BootStrap, CSS, and HTML, verifying it would work on all types of devices. Upon expansion of office space, I ran and terminated network cables, wired ethernet wall plates, and practiced cable management while running cables and organizing desks. IT INTERN TOYOTETSU NORTH AMERICA, INC April 2017 to March 2018 As my time as an intern, I completed PC deployments and met deadlines on deployments and software installations, utilized network booting for imaging computers specifically for the needs of the user, used the tools inside SCCM and Active Directory daily. I also regularly assessed user issues via SCCM Remote Tools in a helpdesk environment, taking the necessary steps to solve the issues at hand in a timely manner. Utilized a helpdesk ticket system to keep track of the tasks assigned and communicated with the requested through the ticket system. Ordered technology-based merchandise based upon a purchase requisition/budget foundation. Education AAS SOMERSET COMMUNITY COLLEGE August 2014 to Present HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA MCCREARY CENTRAL HIGH SCHOOL Skills Sql server, Sql, Active directory, Networking, R2 Additional Information SKILLS  • Microsoft Office Suite  • System Center Configuration Manager  • Active Directory  • Microsoft Server 2012 R2  • Microsoft Server 2016    • Software troubleshooting, maintenance, and developing  • Communicating with end users  • Interpreting log files  • SQL Server  • Basic networking