Milieu Associate Milieu Associate Milieu Associate - Bradley Hospital, Center for Autism and Developmental Disabilities Riverside, RI Work Experience Milieu Associate Bradley Hospital, Center for Autism and Developmental Disabilities - Riverside, RI September 2018 to Present Participate in maintaining a safe and therapeutic environment for 19 patients  ? Assist in the development and operationalization of the milieu care plan  ? Maintain and document appropriate levels of observation  ? Supervise assigned patients in daily routines and assist with activities of daily living  ? Identify and resolve problems on the unit by providing timely therapeutic interventions Student Office Worker URI Feinstein Center for a Hunger Free America - Kingston, RI May 2018 to August 2018 Recorded phone messages from SNAP (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program)  recipients in the state of Rhode Island  ? Maintained a clean and organized office environment  ? Assembled promotional tote bags weekly for outreach workers to bring to various sites  throughout the state of Rhode Island Direct Service Worker Northeast Family Services - Warwick, RI September 2017 to August 2018 Worked directly with individuals with special needs aged 3-21  ? Implemented behavior plans and programs developed by the clinical supervisor  ? Engaged in ongoing communication with parents/caregivers and the clinical coordinator  ? Collected and recorded relevant data throughout the shift Student Systems Administrator URI Department of Housing and Residential Life - Kingston, RI May 2016 to September 2017 Answered phone calls and emails from student employees and full-time faculty  ? Provided technical troubleshooting assistance  ? Maintained computers and other technological equipment provided to the Department of Housing and Residential Life Education Master's in Social Work Rhode Island College - Providence, RI May 2019 to Present Bachelor of Arts in Psychology in Psychology University of Rhode Island - Kingston, RI May 2019 Skills Mental Health, Microsoft Excel, CPR Certified, Powerpoint, Organizational Skills