Passengers Services Assistant Passengers Services Assistant IT Help Desk Support Dallas, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Passengers Services Assistant Prospect DFW Airport April 2019 to Present Full time Passenger's service assistant at DFW International Airport. Windows Administrator Trans Globe - Alexandria, EG March 2013 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  - Involved with developing and implementing IT initiatives to increase productivity  and efficiency while reducing management overhead.  - Installation and administration of Windows Active Directory (AD), Group Policy  Objects (GPOs), Hyper-V, Microsoft IIS servers, FTP, SQL Database Server, File server and Print servers.  - Coordinate with Team Members for migration activity from Windows 2008R2 to Windows 2012.Create PowerShell scripts to interact with Hyper-V, WSUS,  Windows Update, Active Directory (AD) and Registry  - Work with Security Patch Management and Deployment to all clients using  Microsoft WSUS.  - Patch Management using Server Update Services (WSUS).  - Design and implemented efficiency and consolidation improvements  across multiple Active Directory Forests and Domains.  - Group physical disks into logical volumes dynamically sized and resized  volumes to fit in the application.  - Work with networking components, analysis tools, operating systems, mainframes, software, security controls and security concepts.  - Maintain internet Servers by installing IIS 6, FTP websites and creating Virtual  Directories in IIS6.  - Responsible for ERP System customized application tasks like installation, security, user permissions, backup and restore.  - Responsible for installation/configuration, rebuilding new or existing servers, configuring systems software, hardware, services, settings, directories,  storage, etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational  requirements.  - Responsible for installation/configuration and secure network devices such as switches, access point and routers.  - Responsible for installation/configuration DVR for security Cams  - Responsible for Microsoft Partnership silver program.  - Apply operating system patches, upgrades on a regular basis, upgrading  administrative tools and utilities.  - Researched and recommended technologies that can integrate into the existing  environment, to add automation and leverage resources and provide  economies of scale.  - Performing daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all  hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system  and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  - Investigated new technologies, software, patches, and security packages, which will improve system performance and systems administration  procedures.  - Monitored system and network activity to quickly detect any problems related to system security, performance, or system failures in a timely fashion  - Configuration and maintenance of Untangle firewall  - Managing and maintain NAS storage  - Planning and configure disaster recovery plan using Acronis Backup & Replication  - Configure, design and Troubleshoot Hyper-V virtual environment and Virtual  machines. Systems Engineer Arab Computers - Alexandria, EG July 2007 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  - Responsible for L2 & L3 support for all Server related issues, Operation and maintenance of Windows, Backup, Network.  - Part of the Data Center migration team, handling server backups and maintaining the server inventory list, getting server up and running after the  Data Center migration.  - Configured different type of Port Groups Policies, Security policies, Traffic  Shaping, load balancing, Failover detection, Hard and Soft zoning and VLAN  Tagging.  - Responsible for installation/configuration, rebuilding new and existing servers.  - Responsible for installation/configuration network devices routers and switches.  - Responsible for installation/configuration network storage.  - Responsible for installation/configuration Firewalls appliance (Fort iGATE - ISA).  - Responsible for installation/configuration Domain active directory  - Responsible for configure backup plan.  - Troubleshooting infrastructure problems related to hardware and software  - Deal with Customer complaints and solve their problem.  - Troubleshooting desktops problems related to software or hardware these  usually involved checking, fixing and/or replacing computer parts including  motherboards, processors, rams, PCI cards and hard disk.  - Assembling new PCs and configuring them for the company's clients.  - Install and configure IP cams and finger print.  - Created, modified and maintained Group Policy Objects, matched GPOs in multiple domains, move existing group policies form one domain to another  within the active directory forest.  - Responsible for designing, organizing, modifying, and supporting client Servers  and computer systems.  - Update patches on Servers and working with Active Directory Components (AD  Users and computers, DNS, DHCP and WINS  - Performed and raised the domain functional level from windows server 2003 to  - 2008 R2,2012 and 2012R2  - Run Bi-Weekly server check list for all of our client's servers including Server  disk  - Space, Backup, check Event Viewer and reboot if needed.  - Implemented security policy, virus protection and encryption for our clients to meet the highest level of security.  - Prepared and maintained documentation of all Assets Hardware and software, standards and procedures.  - Maintain and Fix Servers hardware issues, and dealing with all suppliers for replacement parts.  - performed decommission of various windows legacy application servers by maintaining the standard change control policy and procedure.  - Worked on Accounts Delegation, Drive Mappings, create and apply Technical  Minimum Base Standard policies to various versions (Windows  servers  - 2000/2003/2008R2/2012R2)  - Administered production servers/network infrastructure that includes  Mail  - Servers, NAS, File and print Servers and Terminal Servers.  - Monitored Software systems for errors and updated them regularly to complete  - Performance Tuning and Optimization (PTO)  - Managed the users and groups and given appropriate permissions and privilege to access our LAN and Domain environment through Group Policy.  - Resolved problems related to performance metrics such as Processor Usage, Memory etc.  - Managed multiple Hyper-V cloud solutions.  - Monitored and raised SLA's on Level 2 and Level 3 tickets during outages. Education BS in Commerce Alexandria University July 2007 Additional Information ? 12 years of Systems Administration experience on Windows server  2003/2008/2008R2/2012/2012R2    ? Expertise managing Windows Server environment: Active Directory, Domain  Services, GPOs, DNS, DHCP, WINS Name Resolution, File & Print Server, IIS  (Web Server), FTP, Terminal Server, RIS/WDS, RRAS, NAT, WSUS, Microsoft  Clustering, Exchange Mail Server and ISA Server.    ? In-depth knowledge in dealing with Windows Registry and File Systems.    ? Pushed various Group Policies to help improve performance/security.    ? Experience in analyzing and troubleshooting Microsoft Windows Server  hardware, Software applications and clustered environment issues.    ? Managed SharePoint end user accounts, permissions and access rights,  managed database connections.    ? Expert in maintaining Business Continuity and performing Disaster Recovery  (DR)    ? Strong knowledge of networking fundamentals and TCP/IP protocol suite,  including enterprise DNS and DHCP, subnetting, virtual networking and  wireless networks.    ? Capable of administering/configuring iSCSI SAN and NAS    ? Understanding of typical IT support-oriented Service Level Agreements and  how to achieve SLA results.    ? Experience with enterprise backup systems and disaster recovery operations