Computer Room / IT Manager Computer Room / IT Manager Manager, Computer Room/IT at Walgreens Roseville, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Computer Room / IT Manager Walgreens January 2018 to Present Manages a team of 6 IT Support Specialists and the DC Computer Room.    Systems and Network Administration, IT Support, project management, procedure writing, Computer Room/DC consumable budget and inventory, training and leadership.    SOP development and implementation.    Database and Power Query development and implementation.    Lean Processes, MBWA (Management by Walking Around), Department Key Performance Indicator management, and Safety culture. DC Systems Administrator Raley's October 2001 to January 2018 Managed DC inventory and auditing processes, 6 member cross departmental team, store help desk and lead store communication point.     Created online forms for all stores to communicate orders issues and discrepancies to the distribution center, this allowed for data analyzing of patterns, incorrect credits and debits in addition to building historical data tracking.    Data analysis and ad-hoc reporting to operations and accounting.    Project management and implementation, installations and quality assurance.    Dashboard reporting and data mining tools for issue identification, remediation and optimization.  Managed and maintained the Legacy Warehouse Management System - user maintenance,   system audits, store orders and routing. Onsite IT support and WMS SME. Collaborated routinely with Transportation, Operations, Stores, Support Center and Accounting.    Part of the team that designed and configured Raley's $25 million Warehouse and Transportation management system across 3 distribution centers (Frozen Bakery, HBC, and Perishable).     All Positions Held:  DC Systems Administrator - October 2015 to January 2018   DC Systems & Inventory Analyst - 2004 to 2015   DC Clerk II - 2001 to 2004  Education Watershed Ecology, General Education Transfer Sierra College - Rocklin, CA 1999 to 2015 Legal Assistant/Paralegal American River College - Sacramento, CA 1995 to 1997 HS Diploma Foothill High School June 1995 Skills Inventory, Inventory control, Logistics, Order management, Data analytics, Sql, Jira, Sap, Accounting, Budgets, Finance, Intermediate accounting, Microsoft office, Distribution Additional Information Skills    18 years distribution & logistics experience  Intermediate Accounting & Finance skills  Budgets  Chainstores WMS  Data Analytics  Highly Analytical  Inventory Control  Inventory Management  JIRA  Large Scale Project Installations  Management  Manhattan Associates: WMS, LMS, MDA, TLM, DOMS  Microsoft Office Suite incl. Access  Office 365  Project Management  SAP BusinessObjects  SQL  Store Order Management