Systems Architect Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Architect Engineer Systems Architect Engineer - Mercedes-Benz Atlanta, GA Work Experience Systems Architect Engineer Mercedes-Benz June 2017 to Present • Leading external/internal resources and/or working with managed services vendor(s) to establish effective/collaborating working model for high productivity.  • Developing cloud-operating mapping models according to corporate compliance, policies and security standards.  • Owning operations and administration of our production cloud platform (Azure and Kubernetes) to ensure reliability, recoverability and optimum performance.  • Delivering service availability at or greater than 99.9% uptime in the cloud at specified concurrency and performance levels.  • Leading efforts of public cloud infrastructure platforms identifying API and datapoints for specified dashboard, Splunk.  • Providing ongoing mapping for asset discovery tools such as BMC ADDM and ManageEngine to identify tools to perform specific functions within the SCCM database.  • Create solution and service recommendations based on market data, trend analysis, in-house capability and potential external partnerships. Practical experience in developing and implementing a high-performing ITSM environment and knowledge of ITSM best practices.  • Expertise in Kubernetes and container Delivery models to support CI/CD and production processes  • Experience in driving software & systems solution in hybrid environment, utilizing Conceptual-Logical integration, TOGAF, Jenkins, CICD, architectural designs, in end to end software launches.  • Experience with Web-API's from cloud environment like AWS, Azure and GCP  • Created application mapping models based on the departmental needs and requirements to improve categorizing tools.  • Designing, implementing, and maintaining of the industry standard configuration managements stacks using Puppet, Chef, & Terraform.  • Leading the architecture design of multiple projects both on-prem and cloud based through the Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Provide core understanding of monitoring and logging principles and previous experience with Splunk or ELK Senior Systems Architect Engineer IBM Global Services - The Weather Company/Channel June 2016 to July 2017 • Providing secured user interaction and network traffic performances using (RUM) Real User Monitoring tools such as Keynote and Catch point to create a consolidation of information retrieved from routine usages.  • Implemented solutions using several architecture design patterns including OLTP, SOA, OLAP, and ETL.  • Writing baseline test cases for user profile scenarios in accordance to the requirements developed for the live production environment  • Designing, developing, mapping and maintaining reports for core measure, quality, regulatory, and operational management reporting using tools such as JIRA & TRELLO,  • Consulting with Information Systems staff to install BMC Data Trend asset discovery tools to manage applications with particular functionalities.  • As a Senior Systems Engineer, I used the IIS Manager to configure Microsoft platforms & IIS security, performance, and reliability features. I also add, delete sites; start, stop, and paused sites; backed up and restored server configurations; and created virtual directories for better content management, to name only a few of the administrative capabilities.  • Proficient with AWS Terraform creating EC2 users within the cloud purposes creating, updating and versioning infrastructure in the cloud using the language called Hashicorp Configuration Language (HCL) with the extension of .tf ,a declarative language that describes infrastructure in the cloud.  • Demonstrating the ability to create, interpret, and present a secured cloud management environment for the purposes of cloning infrastructure, implementation, and designing the network.  • Leading with the ability to understand, convey, and communicate service level metric calculations such as system uptime, downtime, MTTR, etc.  • Illustrating (IaaS) a working knowledge and understanding of data warehouse, data mining, reporting and automation tools such as Azure, Rational products, Local Analytics, Omniture and Rigor,  • Practicing a solid understanding performance Azure and virtualization tools and utilities that are used in a Unix/Linux/Windows and iOS software development environment.  • Developing, testing scripts in Powershell, Bash and other applications, tuning automation processes to run concurrently with 7 day and 30 trending data using querying tools SQL and Python Senior Systems Engineer Booz Allen & Hamilton- Digital Solutions AWS/Cloud Services August 2015 to June 2016 Conducting cloud management of network using Azure to push tools using Powershell scripting language to automate, settings and protocols to user devices for updates, security and vulnerability (standard operating procedure) S.O.P  • Monitoring and managing active directory for users for various complexed systems configured for virtual environments on multiple platform access privilege.  • Performing mapping, backups, patching, networks and system troubleshooting across the infrastructure within local area networks and wide area networks.  • Configuring PKI, VMware, Microsoft and MAC technologies for various desktops and HP servers.  • Creating a (IaaS) cloud standard operating procedures and disaster recovery plans/procedures as backups for emergency protocols and deploying cloud tools using Ansible.  • Responds to customer technical problems/issues related to various OEM hardware and software platforms  • Assists customers by diagnosing problems and providing resolutions for technical issues and managed Office 365/Azure virtualization infrastructure for the staff and enterprise level resolving client facing and continuation of deliverables.  • Created, managed and reported against critical metrics for the platform's operation, overseeing all platform change management and deployment activities  • Implemented and maintain full operational compliance against various security and compliance requirements.  • Consistently improved performance and reliability as the platform scales, driving continuous improvement through operational metrics.  • Produced scripted Powershell language to automate processes within Active Directory within Azure Senior Systems Administrator Strayer University- Scholastical, Funding and Educational Department May 2015 to August 2015 • Manage ticketing system and arranging queue resolution document in list of priority  • Provide critical thinking of client cases and engaging with front end and backend users  • Practiced security methods ensuring no customer experience is less than exceptional  • Provided policy guidance, advice, and assistance in the definition, design and implementation of the target business and technical architecture, reviewing the as-is state and development of the enterprise transition. IT Specialist/Computer Engineer Database Development U.S.P.T.O April 2014 to May 2015 • Researching and analyzing database functionality to ensure that an invention is new and unique.  • Prior database functions are functions that have been disclosed to the public about an invention before a given date including any related patents, published articles and public demonstrations.  • Conducted complex analysis in support of architectural activities, and developing architectural products/artifacts including architectural reviews of business and technical artifacts. Conducting interviews and data gathering activities; and preparing and submitting responses to all Federal and DHS oversight and reporting requirements relating to EA.  • Participated in cross-organizational analyses to identify duplicative investments, gaps, or opportunities for collaboration within TSA, DHS, and across Federal agencies. Conducting studies to identify improvements in the way IT architecture is applied to key business functions for TSA. Supporting the development and implementation of plans and strategies to modify the IT infrastructure. Systems Engineer IBM Global Services - The Weather Company/Channel August 2008 to May 2014 IBM-(AIS) is a leader in cloud, analytics, mobile, social, and cognitive computing solutions. Clients choose IBM Application Innovation Consulting for its ability to apply leading technology, process and intelligence to design while continually building and enhancing outstanding user experiences powered by software. The integration of DevOps Innovation Services and Agile practices, along with IBM Design Thinking and a world of talent, enables us to deliver continuous innovation with speed, quality, and at the cost point required to keep you at the top of your game, and in the hearts of your customers, employees, and business stakeholders.    AIS & Cloud Services help clients take advantage of the flexibility and economics of hybrid cloud computing by offering cloud-enabled service components across the Accelerated Application Development lifecycle. These include cloud-enabled services for development and test of custom, package and mobile applications, and in support of all methods of development - Waterfall, Agile, and DevOps. They also include the migration of applications to the cloud environment of choice. Bringing together the full capabilities of IBM, Cloud Services provide a complete solution with infrastructure, software and services expertise to help fully leverage the cloud in flexible Software, Platform and Lifecycle as a Service models (SaaS, PaaS, and LaaS).    • Responsibilities included but not limited analyzing, designing, developing, customizing, and implementing a wide range of complex hardware and software to support Windows operating systems and large-scale LAN/WAN & desktop systems including protocols, (SMTP) management systems, communications controllers, bridges, routers, and other network devices that support extensive operations.  • Produced Powershell scripting with Active Directory on-premise and VMware & GPO principles, concepts, and techniques used to provide expert level technical support for telecommunications technologies and responsibly ensuring that system performance is favorable for end-users  • Worked with the full scope software development as a junior java developer for a period of 6-8 months.  • Served as a technical help desk expert in the planning, installing, configuring, testing and management of IT operations systems in software platforms comprising of, VMware, SAN, LINUX, & Windows and of the evaluation of procedures and practices to protect information assets.  • As a Systems Administrator, I used the IIS Manager to configure Microsoft platforms & IIS security, performance, and reliability features. I also added, delete sites; start, stop, and paused sites; backed up and restored server configurations; and created virtual directories for better content management, to name only a few of the administrative capabilities.  • I used VMware ESX Server 2008 as a data storage backend for data: XML, email, time/calendar, file, document, spatial, etc as well as perform search, query, analysis, sharing, and synchronization across all data types.  • Documents and communicates project status with team members, with department representatives; provide formal status reporting on a periodic basis to project management / leadership as requested. Education Bachelors in Electronic Engineering in Electronic Engineering DeVry University Skills Systems design, Active directory (8 years), ITIL (6 years), Infrastructure management (9 years), IT infrastructure (8 years), Network analysis (9 years), SAAS (9 years), IAAS (7 years), PAAS (7 years), Disaster recovery (9 years), Change management (9 years), Peoplesoft (5 years), Architecture (8 years), Problem solving (10+ years), Portfolio management (5 years), Strategic planning (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/kilpatrick-jones-7879069/ Additional Information Technical Skills    • IT Infrastructure Management / Leadership  • Strategic Planning / Execution  • Problem Solving  • Architecture / Network Systems Design  • PeopleSoft version 9.1  • Disaster Recovery Procedures  • Project Management  • System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM)  • Enterprise Portfolio Management  • Azure Management  • Infrastructure and Network Analysis  • Soft-As-A-Service (SaaS)  • Infrastructure As A Service (IaaS)  • Platform As A Service (PaaS)  • Windows XP - 10 Migration Management  • Change Management  • Cloud Management  • Resource Management  • Active Directory  • ITIL Certification  • AWS Cloud Management  • Office 365 Cloud Management