Systems and Software Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> and Software <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems and Software Administrator Burbank, CA Experienced Systems Administrator with skills in Unix, Linux, Windows Systems, cloud computing and virtualization. Work Experience Systems and Software Administrator University of Southern California 2005 to July 2019 • Administrated over 500 nodes, physical, VM's, Docker containers, AWS EC2's.  • Managed Dell, Oracle, VMware, AWS and Docker environments.  • Migrated hosts and services from Solaris to Red Hat/CentOS, and to Docker and AWS.  • Managed Foreman/Katello to deploy, configure and patch nodes.  • Administrated Puppet, Git to configure nodes, and managed version control.  • Administrated infrastructure services: DNS, SMTP, NFS, NIS, LDAP, DHCP, HTTP.  • Managed, installed and configured central email lists services, supporting 3,000+ mailing lists, 60,000+ subscribers.  • Managed load balancers to monitor and scale services.  • Maintained and implemented security requirements.  • Managed network file systems, FC switches and storage arrays.  • Automated common tasks using Bash and Perl scripts.  • Managed and maintained development tools such as Java and Jenkins.  • Managed and maintained Cadence, Matlab and other engineering software and licenses.  • Provided technical support to Network Operation Center and oncall responsibilities.  • Assisted staff, faculty and students in resolving systems and software problems.  • Used Service Now ticketing service to track, solve and document requests and issues.    Systems and Software Administrator  Jet Propulsion Laboratory  1996 - 2005    • Administrated and maintained Solaris, Red Hat, Windows systems.  • Managed and maintained security and functionality of systems.  • Maintained hardware and software upgrade and patches.  • Administered and maintained backups and tape libraries.  • Implemented, maintained and configured services such as DNS, SMTP, NFS, LDAP, SSH, HTTP on both Linux and Solaris.  • Managed, installed and maintained engineering tools: Mentor, Cadence, Matlab.  • Maintained software updates, upgrades, version controls and software licenses.  • Provided tech support to users in resolving systems and software problems. Systems and Software Administrator Receptors, Inc 1995 to 1996 • Administrated and maintained UNIX, Windows, Informix systems.  • Developed and maintained real-time client/server applications in C, ABLE and SQL. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Washington - Seattle, WA 1994