AESD TQM/Problem Manager (Promoted) AESD TQM/Problem Manager (Promoted) Quality Assurance Manager San Antonio, TX A Prior Service Information Technology Specialist with experience as the Cyber Security Administrator for an Army strategic battalion, verifying compliance with Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVAs); performing vulnerability testing, risk analysis and security assessments as well as providing Cyber Security-related assistance to 40,000 customers across 22 Army installations & 4 Joint bases in Hawaii. While maintaining outstanding customer service, and work rapport with fellow team members. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AESD TQM/Problem Manager (Promoted) Unisys Federal Systmes - Fort Shafter, HI April 2019 to Present • Review tickets ensuring quality standards are met  • Complete reports to management related to agent trends, quality trends, and ticket trends.   • Submit weekly deliverables to the clientAnalysis and reporting of incident trend data to identify and eliminate root causes.   • Managing root cause analysis between technical teamsEstablish criteria to capture incidents for trending and RCA supporting efforts to improve operational stability in a proactive manner.   • Define, develop, and consult with team reporting, metrics, and analysis of deliverables as required; manage regularly scheduled closer and trend reports and analysis.   • Conduct formal evaluations of the entire AESD operations staff and report findings to the Operations Manager.   • Plan for and establish an organizational Continuous Improvement Process.   • Requirements* Proven analytical and trend analysis skillsAttention to detail.   • Excellent competency in Microsoft Excel and PowerPointExcellent oral and written communication skillsHigh level of self-motivation   • Education / Certification Requirements: Army Enterprise Service Desk – Pacific (AESD – P) | Level 2 Helpdesk Technician (Promoted) Unisys - Fort Shafter, HI October 2018 to April 2019 ·        IAT II – NIPR and SIPR IMO 4 Pacific Theater Admin  ·        C4IM customer support for the Army’s Pacific Land War Net (PLWN) OCONUS theater – Hawaii, Guam, Alaska, Japan, Korea  ·        Supervise Level 1 technicians and assist with escalated IT incidents/requests  ·        Incident Management role for high-priority VIP incidents/requests  ·        Liaison for AESD – P to regional NECs for escalated IT incidents/requests  ·        Remote Desktop services for software installation/updates, remediating CTOs on quarantined computers for network compliance and common touch labor desktop issues  ·        Active Directory Users and Computers management  ·        MAC Authentication Bypass (MAB) imaging  ·        NIPR/SIPR Entitlement Manager for DEPO Enterprise Email  ·        AKO/AKO-S Admin  ·        Create internal/external TTPs and knowledge articles for helpdesk agent/customer use  ·        QA triaged customer tickets through BMC Remedy  ·        Ensure metrics meet customer SLA  ·        Training newly hired Level 1 Agents Army Enterprise Service Desk – Pacific (AESD – P) | Level 1 Helpdesk Technician Unisys Federal Systems January 2018 to October 2018 ·        IAT II – NIPR and SIPR IMO 3 Admin  ·        C4IM customer support for the Army’s Pacific Land War Net (PLWN) OCONUS theater – Hawaii, Guam, Alaska, Japan, Korea  ·        Provide tier 1 desktop support for customers  ·        Active Directory Users and Computers Management  ·        NIPR/SIPR Entitlement Manager for DEPO Enterprise Email  ·        Triage 100+ customer requests daily through Remedy 8.1  ·        Supervise Level 1 Technicians and assist with escalated IT incidents/requests  ·        Incident Management role for high-priority VIP incidents/requests  ·        NIPR/SIPR Entitlement Manager for DEPO Enterprise Email  ·        Liaison for AESD – P to regional NECs for escalated IT incidents/requests  ·        Remote Desktop services for software installation/updates, remediating CTOs on quarantined  ·        QA triaged customer tickets through BMC Remedy Training and Operation Assistant 30th Signal BN - Schofield Barracks, HI February 2017 to January 2018 Coordinating the daily functions of facility management, training, update Defense Training Management System (DTMS), and current operations.  • Coordinating multiple training, and fundraising events.  • Setting up meetings and special events, updating/creating  slide show presentations, and maintaining calendars through PowerPoint,  Outlook and DTMS web page  . ACAS Administrator US Army March 2015 to February 2017 30th Signal Battalion, Schofield Barracks- Wheeler Airfield Hawaii  • Administering vulnerability scans ensuring system compliance for traveling soldiers.  • Assisting in enforcing technology integration and ensure compatibility and standardization based on current and projected customer needs.  • Providing service to end-users for operation, restoration, and configuration of information systems.  • Troubleshooting systems and software problems.  • Updating procedures and documentation.  • Ensuring application of information security and assurance policies in the delivery of services.  • Participating in special projects, as required.  • Ensuring standardization, compliance and enforcement of Army policies and daily operating procedures.  • Implementing ACAS installation and configuration.  • Managing and maintaining ACAS user management.  • Managing and maintaining scan management.  • Managing plug-ins for security centers and make available for subordinate units.  • Developing reports that will support environmental compliance and implementation status  • Maintaining ACAS date feed. Active Directory/ Trusted Agent 30th Signal BN - Schofield Barracks, HI October 2014 to February 2017 Performing cross platform audits of Active Directory (AD) objects and user permissions.  • Developing organizational units in Active Directory (AD) and managed user security with group policies.  • Ordering/Issuing PKI (Public Key Infrastructure) tokens to Information Management Officers (IMOs).  • Creating, administering, and servicing accounts across multiple networks and client environments.  • Synchronizing PKI tokens to administrative accounts. Host based Security Systems (HBSS) Administrator 30th Signal BN - Schofield Barracks, HI October 2014 to March 2015 Deploying, configuring and maintaining the full capabilities of the Host Based Security System (HBSS) products to all enterprise-wide managed systems including, McAfee Agent (MA), HIPS, and Virus Scan (VSE) for McAfee Host Based Security System (HBSS). Education Information Technology American Military University Skills OPERATIONS (Less than 1 year), TRAINING (Less than 1 year), CONFLICT MANAGEMENT (Less than 1 year), CUSTOMER SERVICE (Less than 1 year), HELP DESK (Less than 1 year), Helpdesk Support, Active Directory, Comptia, Customer Support, Desktop Support, Service Desk, Top Secret Clearance, Tech Support Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SPC October 2013 to January 2018 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ December 2018 to December 2020 ITIL Present Top Secret Clearance July 2019 Assessments Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/myeqa2ynpbzl3cyg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Top Secret Interim    Skills:  System Administration  Network Administration  Customer Service  Presentation  Communication  Problem Solving  Project Management Help Desk Tier II Support    Incident Management  Training Support Operations  Video Teleconferencing  Adaptability  Software Installation  Team Building  Time Management  Microsoft Operating Systems    Organizational Development  Conflict Management  Installation  Information Assurance  Computer Hardware Analytical  Technical Support  Network Monitoring  Microsoft Office