Owner/Operator Owner/Operator Simi Valley, CA Work Experience Owner/Operator A-2-9 May 2017 to Present Provide information technology services to individuals and organizations. Systems Administrator Experis January 2012 to March 2017 Support over 3000 Windows servers and 750 VMware ESXi hosts using tools such as HP Server Automation (Opsware), VMWare, CA Spectrum, CA eHealth, Infoblox (DNS), Clustering technologies, Symantec Netbackup, Nutanix, Zert0 and vROPs.     Trained and mentored 9 new team members, 5 of which were located abroad. Identified hundreds of servers that were not in use. Identified and debugged a VBScript that was incorrectly configuring CA SysEDGE on the servers. Created Powershell scripts to automatically set IP address configurations, create security groups in Active Directory and set security settings on files. Configured hundreds of HP ILO adapters to support Active Directory authentication. Performed 7x24 on-call duties. Migrated dozens of systems to newer SAN devices. Systems Administrator Wimmer Solutions June 2010 to December 2011 Racking, stacking and cabling systems in datacenters. Working with Dell, HP and EMC hardware. Hardware upgrades. Fiber and copper network cabling.    Worked with xSigo, VMWare ESX/VSphere, Microsoft SQL Clusters, Windows and Linux (RHEL andCentOS) to migrate systems to a different xSigo cluster. Sr. Consultant Sogeti October 2009 to April 2010 Studied and obtained certifications for Application Compatibility Factory (ACF), Microsoft Desktop Optimization Pack (MDOP), IPv6 and Windows 7 technologies. Assisted in an ACF engagement.    Worked with client to improve systems management, patching processes and general security of systems. Tools worked with included Active Directory, TriActive ( systems management via SaaS model), PGP, AVG & Symantec Endpoint Protection (Anti-Virus) enterprise tools, VMWare ESXi and VBScript. Systems Engineer Comsys November 2008 to March 2009 Inventoried systems, performed system troubleshooting, prepared systems for use, racked hardware, and built scripts and processes to automate system configurations. Technical Skills: Data center fundamentals, cabling, computer networking, computer hardware, SharePoint, Altiris, Avocent DSView, Shavlik NetChk, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, TCP/IP, DHCP, WINS, Active Directory and hardware (HP, Rackable and Dell). Sr. Consultant CGI May 2006 to July 2008 Performed several roles for several projects, both in-house as well as at CGI’s clients. Roles included Project Management, Systems Engineering, QA Management, Data Analysis, IT Operations, etc. Projects include business continuity, database mining, voice technologies, software development, and IT operations. Worked with organizations in the Financial Services, Energy and Telecom industries. Education High school or equivalent Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Google Docs (7 years), Microsoft Windows (10+ years), Typing (10+ years), 10-Key (10+ years), Microsoft Windows Server (10+ years), Cleaning (10+ years), Management (10+ years), Cash Handling (10+ years), Painting, Housekeeping, Data Entry, Excel (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) VCP A+ Certified Assessments Workplace English — Expert August 2019 Understanding spoken and written English in work situations. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8whko4uighicf1ec Basic Maintenance and Repair — Expert August 2019 Performing basic repairs and maintenance for apartment complexes, office buildings, and other facilities. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/m6qhuevkezqcex5z Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vc09huw9n-t9fdbw Verbal Communication — Highly Proficient August 2019 Speaking clearly, correctly, and concisely. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uu6mmmxxyxmkdkbp Customer Focus & Orientation — Highly Proficient August 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gfrlkivyisuxebpx Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.