Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer Warwick, RI Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer eClarifire - Saint Petersburg, FL August 2013 to February 2015 Design and implementation of a High Availability Exchange 2010 environment, design and implementation of a Lync 2013 environment in coexistence with Lync 2010 and migration of users, migration of all mailboxes to retire aging servers, and management of said environment. Architectural design and Management of Active Directory along with the servers and applications. Other duties included:  • Management of enterprise patching using Dell Kace and WSUS  • Management of several DB and Web servers to support the company's software and infrastructure  • Software deployments to various web servers  • Management of the Symantec Messaging Gateway  • Management of Exchange 2010 environment  • Management of Lync environments  • Scripting in both PowerShell and vbscript used for various tasks in the environment  • Management of VMWare ESX environment via vSphere  • Workflow automation software designed to make process-centric organizations more efficient    Environment: Microsoft Windows (2008, 2008R2, 2012R2), Active Directory, Exchange 2010 w/DAG, IIS, SQL, Dell Appasure, Dell Kace, WSUS, vSphere, Tidal Software for task control, Orion monitoring, etc. Senior Systems Engineer REED BUSINESS INFORMATION - Gulfport, FL 1997 to 2013 Gulfport, FL 1997 - 2013  Leading provider of business information, data and marketing solutions, and part of the Reed Elsevier Group plc.  Senior Systems Engineer  Manager, Network Engineering - Microsoft  Provide all aspects of network services for both US and Global operations of Reed Elsevier. This included architectural design of Active Directory as well as Enterprise applications and environments, hardware and software installation, configuration, security, wireless, Internet domain products, Email, and website development. Supported and managed SharePoint Portal Services, NetBackup, messaging add-ons such as Blackberry Enterprise Server and RightFax Enterprise.  • Selected as team member to set up Federated Trust migrating 5,000 seats to Microsoft Office 365 and eliminating the need for on-premise Exchange system. Produced a significant cost savings.  • Installed Rightfax Enterprise Suite 10.5 and moved users from an existing implementation of 9.4 to the new system enabling continued support from the manufacturer.  • Installed Exchange 2010 into a mixed 2003/2010 environment. Set up DAG replication for UK servers to replicate to a DR site in the Netherlands providing disaster recovery capabilities across Email systems.  • Participated on a major acquisition for the company incorporating all their systems into the RBI network. Simultaneously worked on a major divesture and removed all their systems from the RBI network.  • Due to office closure moved clustered Exchange Virtual Server (EVS) to new hardware, used NetApp replication to move the data (2 TB), and distributed all AD FSMO roles and connectors to alternate Domain Controllers.  • Led the implementation of MIIS to automatically create mailboxes to ensure standards of accuracy.  • Supervised the consolidation of several Exchange 5.5 and Rightfax servers into a single site located in Colorado. Moved all users from legacy environment to Exchange 2003.  • As design team member implemented the Active Directory forest for Reed Elsevier - a 2 year project with approximately 38,000 seats globally. Served as lead engineer for RBI-US division.  • Designed and implemented an NT4 domain with several Exchange 5.5 servers across the US. This enabled central administration and true collaboration in email.  • Automated numerous manual tasks by scripting to generate reports, performed Active Directory updates, and alerted various IT groups when thresholds were breached.  • Created various web applications used by IT, sent out alerts independent of the messaging system and maintained metrics used for trend analysis and created reports against SQL databases.    Environment: Microsoft Windows (all versions), Active Directory, Exchange (all versions), Office 365, Blackberry Enterprise Server, RightFax Enterprise Server, Linux and Linux AD integration, MIIS, Citrix XenApp Enterprise 6.0, NetApp SAN, MS and Symantec Clustering, SQL, Terminal Services, RDP, VPN, IIS, FTP, Telnet, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Vbscript, C++, Powershell, Group Policy, HTTP, HTTPS, SSL, SSH, DNS, DDNS, DHCP, Firewall, Anti-virus & deployment, NetBackup, VMWare, Hyper-V, scripting and automated task/job scheduling, monitoring solutions (Empirix, MOM/NetIQ, Zenoss). Systems Administrator/Network Engineer COMMUNITY NEWSPAPER CO., FIDELITY INVESTMENTS - Natick, MA 1995 to 1997 • Provided performance tuning, installation and administration of Novell 3.12 and Windows NT 4.0 & 3.51 Servers, Macintosh networks, and Microsoft Mail Server for PC's and Macintosh with gateways for SMTP & Mac to PC.  • Evaluated various software packages for Novell and Windows NT Servers. Evaluated Microsoft Exchange Server 5.0 to replace the existing Microsoft Mail system.  • Reviewed and documented server configurations and implemented changes to increase performance and efficiency.  • Enabled print services for PC computers to AppleTalk printers via Novell, and from NetWare to SUN/UNIX systems.  • Installed LAN Workgroup for TCP/IP support, and Microsoft's Wolverine TCP/IP stack on PC workstations, centralized backups for all Novell & Windows NT Servers using Legato Networker.  • Installed PC's and Macintosh computers, set up and supported Windows for Workgroups and MS Office.    Environment: Microsoft Windows NT 3.51 and NT 4.0, Netware 3.12, Macintosh 9.x and prior, UNIX, print services, TCP/IP, AppleTalk, NetBIOS, Legato Networker, Microsoft Mail, SMTP, scripting using batch files and basic. Systems/Network Administrator BOKLAND CUSTOM VISUALS, INC - Albany, NY 1992 to 1995 • Replaced NEC dumb terminal system with a Novel Netware 3.0 environment to improve productivity and to implement collaboration. Implemented a TCP/IP network throughout the entire building which used other protocols such as NetBIOS and AppleTalk.  • Researched and implemented the company's financial system and maintained the software.  • Designed and upgraded the graphics department to high end resolution digital output and installed high resolution film recorders to be used by the entire department.  • Independently worked with outside vendors to provide systems and services.    Environment: Novell Netware 3.0 and 3.11, Windows for Workgroups 3.1, Macintosh, AppleTalk, NetBIOS, TCP/IP. Service Manager CASTLE COMPUTERS, INC - Latham, NY 1988 to 1992 • Managed service department with responsibility for troubleshooting, maintenance and installation of Macintosh and PC computers and peripherals in networked and stand alone environments.  • Advised clients on software and hardware solutions for Mac and PC networked environments (TCP/IP, AppleTalk). Education Associates Degree in Applied Science in Applied Science Hudson Valley Community College - Boston, MA