Job Seeker Taylors, SC Work Experience Roechling Automo ve - Duncan, SC 2015 to 2019 Domain wide Ac ve Directory Group Policy management and server administra on on Microso  file and directory services 2008, 2012 and 2016 servers.  • Migrated Virtual server environment from Citrix Xenserver to Microso Hyper-V and Vmware  6.5 environments. Administrator 2010 to 2010 2010 systems.  • Develop Microso Server 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2012 R2 standard opera ng system images for faster and easier standardized server deployment.  • Managed VMWare virtual environment for server and special needs worksta on deployments of virtual machine collec on pools for labs and non-dedicated computer needs with VMWare View  Administrator.  • IT Service Desk coordinator and special projects developer  • Coordinate 4 technical support teams with 24 student technicians and 8 full me staff personnel  for support of university owned and issued Mac and Windows computers along with 10  computer labs.  • Work with team leaders and student workers to help develop more efficient troubleshoo ng  skills and procedures.  • Organize and develop solu ons for special events and projects that would come up throughout the year and work to streamline exis ng processes.  • Microso Group Policy Administra on for server and worksta on configura on, standardiza on and security rights assignments.  • Develop standardized opera ng system images to be deployed to university computers for faculty, staff and computer lab machines.  • Create silent background installer packages for needed applica ons to be added to computer  systems beyond the standard image requirements.  • Implement LANDesk Desktop Management so ware for centralized desktop management and monitoring. Systems administra on and Technical support Selma Medical Associates 2000 to 2007 for medical prac ce of 26 medical providers and  170 ancillary staff at three loca ons.  • Support Novell and HP UNIX networks for pa ent informa on and business processes.  • Migrate from Novell and HP UNIX to Microso Ac ve Directory for HIPPA and electronic medical  records requirements.  • Install and administer networking infrastructure for 40,000 square foot 3 story building  expansion for doctor's offices and exam room addi on. Wired and wireless networking  equipment configura on and administra on.  • Worksta on hardware assembly, support and upgrades for 200+ users at 2 sites along with so ware applica ons support and user training for more efficient processes. Applied Telecom Resources - Winchester, VA 1998 to 2000 • Telephone system installa on and support for mul ple small business clients.  • Provide hardware, so ware and networking support and employee training for companies  moving to small office networking installa ons.  • "Y2K" tes ng and remedia on for Microso and Novell based networks along with assembly  line equipment Programmable Logic Controllers. Electronic Banking Systems - Hagerstown, MD 1993 to 1998 - Hagerstown MD  • Design, configure and install Novell based network for Tartan mainframe data entry system  replacement  • Install offsite network data entry loca on for image based transac on processing of data entry  capture.  • Supervise and train so ware development team on proprietary so ware system as well as "C"  programming language for high speed document scanner control. Education industrial Bob Jones University - Greenville, SC 2007 to 2015 Links http://mrogers.com