Project Manager Project Manager W Henrietta, NY Energetic and results driven Human Resources, Business Management and Economics graduate with a proven track record for strong and credible leadership maintaining the highest standards of values and ethics. Able to effectively manage business operations with agility and keen focus on culture, team building and change management. Excels in technology management, analytical and data-driven problem solving. Highly organized and competent in multi-tasking, managing competing priorities and meeting deadlines. Versatile and respectful communicator able to develop collaborative networks and successful partnerships across all levels and functional units of the organization. Committed coach and mentor contributes to individual developmental goal setting, enhancing team performance and influencing career planning. Reliable and highly regarded for strengths in domestic and global project management, solution design planning and implementation to meet client needs in alignment with team objectives and strategic business goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Manager TenEleven Group May 2019 to Present Responsible for the completion of projects on time and within budget in the healthcare field. Oversees all aspects of the project from sales transition, project planning, assignment of roles and responsibilities, presentations as well as training of client staff.  • Quickly developing a deep understanding of the electronic health record software and behavioral health industry lead to being assigned projects within 2 weeks of hire.  • Investigates technical issues with application and works as liaison between clients and development team to get fixes in next release builds.  • Manages the coordination of all lab orders and reports testing and performs contract initiation between major lab companies and healthcare agencies.  • Quickly adapted to user access challenges, due to client network issues, to keep project moving forward and not missing delivery date.  • Reports and escalates any issues to the appropriate management and stakeholders that would impede success of the project at the earliest sign of trouble. Technology Consultant III Hewlett Packard Enterprise / DXC Technology April 2008 to March 2019 Responsible for providing detailed technical designs for enterprise solutions. Understanding a broad spectrum of multiple vendor technologies to provide part or all of a detailed technical design. Provide leadership on technical projects.  • Redesigned Kraft Foods 802.1x infrastructure resulting in $500,000 project revenue for DXC Technology.  • Key contributor to the Aruba ClearPass service offering for DXC Technology.  • Delivered growth by expanding consulting team and adding new accounts.  • Delivered 24x7 technical escalation support resulting in shorter resolution times for critical incidents.  • Achieved Certified Wireless Network Administrator (CWNA) certification.  • Team lead responsibilities for Remote User Authentication Services group.  • Prioritized incoming work and distribute to team members.  • Provided additional backup support to Proxy and Firewall teams.  • Recognized internationally as SME for 802.1x. Systems Administrator, Electronic Data Systems Hewlett Packard Enterprise / DXC Technology November 1997 to April 2008 Provided on-site technical support for EDS Northeast Regional Solution Center and Xerox Corporation.  • Delivered desk side support for engineering departments.  • Created technical documentation for server and workstation builds resulting in greater consistency and faster delivery.  • Delivered process improvement project analyzing trouble ticket patterns and formulated solutions for re-occurring problems.  • Developed technical shadowing program that identified promising tier 1 talent on the helpdesk to move into a tier 2 position.  • Achieved Microsoft Certified System Engineer (MCSE) certification.  • Achieved Sun Solaris 10 certification.  • Attended leadership training courses.  • 18 month mentoring project with management. Education BS in Human Resource Management Empire State College 2014