Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer Buena Park, CA • Over ten years of experience in building and managing a large VMware based virtual server environment.  • Over twenty years of experience in managing a Microsoft Windows based server environment.  • Over ten years of experience maintain a large LAN/WAN environment using Cisco, Nortel & Motorola equipment.  • Wide range of IT skills and ability to troubleshoot complex problems. Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer United Natural Foods June 2017 to May 2019 • Responsible for managing a large 3000+ windows server environment, all versions from 2000-2019  • Managed server provisioning and decommissioning activities.  • Mentored offshore L3 team that performed routine Tier 1 - 3 maintenance, changes and problem escalation.  • Managed Windows Network infrastructure services such as DNS, DHCP, DFS, Group Polices, SCCM & SCORCH  • Developed and deployed PowerShell scripts for management monitoring, deployment and reporting.  • Provided advanced troubleshooting and root cause analysis for critical events and major incidents.  • Worked with the Principal Architects to implement new products and services.  • Approved changes to be submitted to CAB board and worked to make sure changes were approved and implemented.  • Built new server images and made sure the passed the CIS security standards.  • Worked with security team to make sure all servers were scanned before turnover and resolved any issues from periodic scans.  • Migrated all servers from McAfee Anti-Virus to Cylance Anti-Virus  • Implemented FireEye to all servers. Senior Systems Administrator United Natural Foods August 1995 to June 2017 • Managed both VMware and Windows Environments.  • Migrated VMware vSphere to 5.0 and later to 6.0  • Designed and Deployed Tintri and Pure storage systems  • Designed and Implemented VMware vSphere 4.x for the company  • Deployed NetApp based Fiber Channel SAN  • Migrated 90% of the physical servers to VMware vSphere 4.x  • Managed multiple Active Directory Environments for both internal and external customers.  • Provided support to desktop services team for complex issues.  • Deployed McAfee Anti-Virus and Policy monitoring.  • Managed Server hardware inventory and purchasing.  • Migrated File services from server based path to domain name space (DFS) paths.  • Help manage Linux Servers and developed procedure for integrating with Active Directory using Kerberos pass through authentication.  • Migrated all Novell Netware 4.x servers to Windows 2003.  • Migrated Novell Netware Directory Services to Microsoft Active Directory.  • Designed/Implemented/Managed HP System Insight Manager server used to monitor server hardware.  • Managed all LAN/WAN routers and switches using Cisco, Nortel and Motorola Equipment.  • Managed large retail store frame relay and MPLS WAN  • Migrated retail store WAN from X25 to TCP/IP for Year 2000 project. Education Computer Science Southern Oregon State University 1986 to 1988 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, Ldap, Mpls