Senior Systems Engineer - Cloud Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer - Cloud Senior Systems Engineer - Cloud Huntsville, AL • Systems Engineer with advanced skills in virtualization & cloud, complex troubleshooting, OS(Windows and Linux) & App support, security hardening, project planning & implementation, and customer service.  • Proven ability to lead a team of professionals to meet and exceed client expectations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer - Cloud IBM - Huntsville, AL July 2016 to Present IBM SmartCloud for Government (SCG) - June 2018 - Current  • Provide advanced support, recommendations, and automation across multiple focus areas(Windows, Linux, Infrastructure, Storage) to improve stability and efficiency of the cloud environment.  • Plan and Execute various special projects such as lift-and-shift datacenter moves, deep dives of customer environments and remediation of findings, detailed root cause analysis' of problems, and some architectural/design work based on custom tenant requests.  • Documentation of best practices and processes.    Army Private Cloud Enterprise (APCE) March 2017 - July 2018  • Rapidly deployed IBM's Cloud platform to Redstone Arsenal and configured to meet strict DoD security guidelines, while meeting client deadlines and expectations.  • Worked heavily with client counterparts to escalate governmental roadblocks which were not conducive to cloud, helping drive the Army into the future with new policies to ensure a successful cloud initiative.  • Lead engineering efforts for the VMware team and worked closely with peers to ensure project success across multiple technology facets.  • Heavily assisted with engineering efforts and cross specialized with Windows Server Team, Storage Team, and Backup Team.    Logistics Support Activity (LOGSA) July 2016 - Current  ***Returned to this same position after briefly leaving to do work at the Missile Defense Agency.***  • Lead VMware team & engineering efforts until March 2017, at which point I moved to an advisory role to assist the "new" VMware team lead while transitioning to APCE as my primary contract.  • Provided occasional Tier 3 support and long term project experience and insight to peers, as needed. Systems Design Engineer Insight Global - Huntsville, AL March 2016 to June 2016 Missile Defense Agency (MDA)  • Created detailed design & technical implementation plans for a complete and isolated VDI environment using VMware Horizon View. From the physical infrastructure to the applications supporting the environment.  • Created detailed design & technical implementation plan for a global deployment of SteelFusion Core and Edge.  • Executed deployments successfully and timely while adhering to the strict change management process. Systems Engineer IBM - Huntsville, AL February 2013 to March 2016 Logistics Support Activity (LOGSA)  • Engineered, built, and migrated LOGSA's DataCenter infrastructure layout under IBM Architects direction. Numerous Oracle Rack nodes, VMware ESXi hosts(version 4.1 to 5.5), and specialized standalone servers.  • Lead & Mentored the Virtualization team, delegated tasks & responsibilities, optimized team procedures, and always strived for continual service improvement. Strong driver for personal growth and ownership.  • Performed frequent advanced technical troubleshooting of Infrastructure and the VMware environment, down to the OS level - Linux, Solaris, and Windows.  • Frequent scripting with PowerShell/PowerCLI for various needs(Proactive health checks, automation of remedial tasks, Service-Level-Agreement(SLA) reporting, and random customer requests for information).  • Maintained health of all physical and virtual infrastructure.  • Secured infrastructure through DoD STIGs and hardening guides.  • Mentored other teams on best practices and implementation strategies for DoD Stigs & system hardening. Systems Administrator III COmputing TechnologieS, Inc - Huntsville, AL September 2011 to February 2013 Logistics Support Activity (LOGSA)  • Deployed Jacobs' Cloud platform, a pre-made hyper-converged VCE vBlock 700 Series with vCloud Director as our Cloud Interface. Initial configuration and training executed jointly with Engineers from VMware, Cisco, and EMC.  • Administered the VMware, Windows Server, and Storage environments, as well as all underlying hardware.  • Mentored junior administrators on virtualization best practices, infrastructure administration, Active Directory and Group Policy administration, and storage platform administration.  • Created and configured RHEL, Solaris, and Windows systems, as well as provided guidance to junior teammates on correct processes.  • Performed frequent advanced technical troubleshooting of Infrastructure and the VMware environment, down to the OS level - RHEL, Solaris, and Windows.  • Scripted custom VMware reports with PowerCLI to more effectively manage the VM environment, automate tedious processes, and automatically alert to system health problems. Systems Administrator Los Alamos National Bank - Los Alamos, NM August 2007 to September 2011 • Systems Administrator duties across numerous banking systems, applications, and infrastructure.  • Architected, created, and administered a 40 Server Citrix XenApp 6 Farm on VMware, spread across 2 data centers in different cities, supporting 5 sites. Site preferential launches were configured to prevent unnecessary WAN latency, while still allowing for availability in case of site outage.  • Engineered the migration from Active Directory 2003 to 2008 and completely re-designed the OU structure and Group Policy layout to optimize Citrix logins and bring consistency to the environment. AD Sites and Services updated to increase refresh intervals, decrease login issues, as well as facilitate the cross-site redundancy needed by Citrix XenApp.  • Performed migration from ESXi 3.5 to 4.1.  • Performed Tier 3 support services for escalated PC tech issues.  • Deployed VMware View 4.5 to approximately 100 end users using Panologic zero clients and Wyse P20 thin clients. Network Administrator Los Alamos National Laboratory - Los Alamos, NM August 2005 to August 2007 Los Alamos National Laboratories (LANL) - Technical Design (TDI)  • Administered the Active Directory and Windows Server environments.  • Administered the server backups using CommVault and Backup Exec.  • Maintained all underlying hardware, mostly HP.  • Assisted PC tech group with advanced/escalated issues as needed. Education Associates of Applied Science in Computer and Information Technology Santa Fe Community College 2003 to 2006 Skills VMware vSphere (10+ years), Windows Server (10+ years), Citrix (4 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Systems Engineering (6 years), Vmware (10+ years), Active Directory (6 years), Linux, AWS (Less than 1 year), Storage (3 years), EMC (3 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/scottbarr01 Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Cloud Practicioner July 2019 to July 2022 CompTIA CASP+ June 2017 to June 2023 VMware Certified Advanced Professional 5 - Datacenter Design August 2014 to Present EMC Storage Administrator September 2012 to Present EMC Information Storage Associate v2 August 2012 to Present Microsoft Certified IT Professional (MCITP) October 2011 to Present CompTIA Security+ August 2011 to June 2023 Citrix Certified Administrator March 2011 to Present VMware Certified Advanced Professional 4 - Datacenter Administration January 2011 to Present ITIL Foundation April 2015 to Present