PROJECT SYSTEMS ENGINEER PROJECT <span class="hl">SYSTEMS</span> ENGINEER PROJECT SYSTEMS ENGINEER - NTIVA Arlington, VA Highly versatile, goal driven, experienced IT professional with strong technical skills. Team player and a strong leader with a great sense of collective goals as well as individual requirements to achieve them. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PROJECT SYSTEMS ENGINEER NTIVA November 2018 to Present Acting as a lead engineer for multiple projects. Working successfully as an independent contributor as well as part of a team. Collaborating with project management and clients to ensure accurate and timely delivery of desired solutions.  • Successfully met set timelines while executing multiple projects.  • Worked on projects of various complexity including but not limited to MFA deployment, Office 365 setup and migration, Microsoft Exchange Hybrid implementation, file server migration, infrastructure upgrades, network equipment upgrades, email spam filtering deployment and configuration and cloud migration.  • Developed internal documentation to act as a guide for other project engineers and streamlined deployment of services.  • Successfully executed projects for organizations with large number of users with minimal downtime.  • Provided assistance to team members internally and cross department on resolving complex issues and overcoming technical obstacles.  • Participated in the interviewing process to hire new team members of the engineering team. TECHNICAL TEAM LEAD DATA PROTECTION April 2013 to November 2018 Providing leadership to 2 teams with 30 engineers total to ensure high-quality customer support in accordance to established policies and SLAs. Mentoring and training technical support team members while establishing areas of improvement, setting goals and working towards achieving them. Also, supervising training and professional development to ensure staff continually improved technical skills. Additionally, providing technical support to enterprise customers running a full range of hardware and various applications.  • Exceeded all internal key performance metrics (KPIs) with an average OSAT of 97%, NPS of 83, KCS of 86%, and SLA adherence.  • Devised and implemented new process to improve overall customer satisfaction (OSAT) and NPS, exceeding executive and stretch goals.  • Slashed backlogged Service Requests (SRs) by almost 50% by leading development of comprehensive plan to identify the key items required to speed up resolution and improve overall time-to-close metrics.  • Recognized with multiple awards during tenure with Dell/Quest, including champion awards and recognition for individual contributions.  • Created and delivered comprehensive performance report to managers based on information captured from the CRM database.  • Provided sound advice and guidance to customers on best strategies to improve their technical environments while mitigating potential and known issues.  • Provided technical assistance on multiple high level escalations working efficiently towards resolution while managing customer's temperature.  • Streamlined and standardized technical support operations and improved resolution turnaround by documenting issues and solutions in support manuals and self-help tutorials. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR ALEXANT SYSTEMS July 2006 to April 2013 Working in a fast paced, highly technical and versatile environment providing technical assistance on the application and server level. Responding to critical system down events, performing system monitoring and upgrades. Planning for future data growth, security compliance and technology evolvement.  • Configured and installed hardware equipment.  • Performed monitoring of systems and application health.  • Created custom integrations with third party applications to minimize the amount of time required for data processing.  • Developed roadmaps and implemented software upgrades.  • Managed calls and user escalations  • Responded to critical requests and resolved issues  • Trained new team members Education B.S. in INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS South Ural State University 2008 Skills Microsoft Exchange 2010, 2013, 2016 (10+ years), Scripting (10+ years), Visual basic (10+ years), MFA DUO (1 year), Active directory (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), Oracle Cloud (1 year), Microsoft SQL 2010, 2015 (10+ years), Siebel (6 years), Hyper-v (10+ years), Backup exec (5 years), DHCP (10+ years), LDAP (10+ years), Vmware (10+ years), Sugarcrm (4 years), Datto Backup (1 year), Microsoft Office 2007, 2010, 2013 (10+ years), Powershell (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years), AWS (6 years), Office 365 (1 year), DELL Switches (10+ years), ConnectWise (1 year), AppAssure Backup (6 years), Rapid Recovery Backup (5 years), WatchGuard Firewall (10+ years), Microsoft Windows 7, 8, 10 (10+ years), Microsoft Windows Server 2003 (10+ years), Microsoft Windows Server 2008 (10+ years), Microsoft Windows Server 2012 (6 years), Microsoft Windows Server 2016 (2 years), Meraki Wireless (1 year), Group Policy (10+ years), Windows Backup (10+ years), Shadow Copy (10+ years), Azure Active Directory (1 year), Barracuda Web Filtering (6 years), AppRiver Hosted Exchange (1 year), AppRiver SecureTide (1 year), Webroot Antivirus (1 year), Network Solutions DNS (10+ years), TCP/IP (10+ years), WSUS (7 years), SonicWall Firewall (2 years)