System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - GPM, Corp Canton, NC Work Experience System Administrator GPM, Corp - Asheville, NC October 2018 to Present Administration of servers (Windows (2008 R2, 2012 R2, 2016, Linux (Centos, Ubuntu), configure  services, settings, directories, active directory, group policies, etc. within a HIPAA compliant  environment  ? Office 365 administration (Web management and powershell scripts)  ? Manage Vmware Vsphere 6.5 environment (110 Vms with 9 physical hosts across 2 vcenters) and MS Azure  ? Monitor system backups and address issues as required. (Veeam)  ? Cloud VoIP system administration, handset deployment and support (Ringcentral)  ? Use of monitoring tools to diagnose infrastructure issues (Lansweeper, PRTG, PDQ Inventory)  ? Utilization of security tools for threat mitigation (Carbon Black, Trend Micro, Duo Mobile, Bitlocker, LastPass)  ? Assisted in the management and maintenance of Ubiquiti wireless access points and switches  ? Client computer builds, management and support  ? Contributed procedure documentation to Atlassian Confluence knowledge repository Independent Information Technology Consultant Logikcore - Kenhorst, PA February 2010 to October 2018 Server builds and virtual migrations (Linux and Windows)  ? Virtualization implementations (Vmware and KVM)  ? G Suite service and accounts setup  ? Antivirus server and client deployments (AVG)  ? Firewall / IDS builds (Pfsense), Cisco small business switches, HP Procurve switches and Ubiquiti  wireless installations  ? Hardware and software purchases and installation  ? Website development (G Suite, Apache and Wordpress) System Administrator III Novartis - Sinking Spring, PA September 2016 to June 2017 Administration and support of Windows servers (2003, 2008 and 2012) and workstations at GxP  medical manufacturing facility  ? Performed system administration tasks for Active directory accounts, backup & restoration via  Backup Exec, Citrix and Vmware servers  ? Maintain and troubleshoot wired and wireless networking  ? Coordinated support with on site and remote support teams Systems Administrator / Server Support Specialist Weidenhammer Systems - Wyomissing, PA May 2012 to February 2015 Management and maintenance of servers and workstations (Windows Server 2003, 2008 R2, 2012, Debian and Centos)  ? Manage Active Directory, group policies and network shares access  ? Monitor systems performance and threats for remediation (Zenoss, Kaspersky)  ? Deployment and management of disk encryption for remote clients  ? Research and implement new security and infrastructure technologies  ? Software costing and purchases  ? Instituted antivirus, endpoint control and patch management solution (Kaspersky)  ? Pioneered KVM based virtualization (Proxmox) and migrated company servers  ? Researched and deployed managed full disk encryption (Zenworks)  ? Integrated network monitoring solution for company infrastructure (Zenoss)  ? Built network based imaging solution for company laptops (Clonezilla DRBL)  ? Trained help desk personnel on use of various systems Systems Administrator Physiotherapy Associates - Exton, PA May 2010 to May 2012 Administration and maintenance of VMware servers and Citrix based thin clients  ? Build and maintain Windows servers 2003, 2008, Lawson and Nextgen servers  ? Utilize security and monitoring tools for host scanning and vulnerability remediation (Alienvault  OSSIM, Qualys, Ossec, Nmap, Openvas, Solarwinds and Mcafee)  ? Management of Active Directory user and groups, Exchange accounts and network shares  ? Process and monitor backups (Commvault)  ? Tier 3 support for corporate office and field clinics  ? Process documentation and incident reporting  ? Researched and implemented IDS and vulnerability solution (Alienvault OSSIM and Ossec)  ? Developed network based PC imaging system to deploy more than 1600 netbooks used in over 600  clinics resulting in significant savings (Clonezilla and DRBL)  ? Coordinated and documented POS roll out for all company clinics Network Administrator AI Control Systems - Muhlenberg, PA January 2006 to October 2009 Manage servers and workstations (Windows 2000, 2003, Exchange, Debian and Centos)  ? Implementation and management of network monitoring, active directory, group policies  ? Management of firewalls, switches and remote access (Pfsense, Nortel, Dell and Openvpn)  ? Responsible for data protection and backups (Veritas and AVG antivirus)  ? Created company website and servers (LAMP, Joomla)  ? Developed Linux based testing kiosk  ? Developed portable SCADA software and OS deployment solution  ? Implemented Asterisk based VoIP phone system (Freepbx) Education Reading Area Community College Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/cummingstodd