Sr System's Engineer Sr System's Engineer RELOCATING TO HOUSTON, TX San Antonio, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr System's Engineer HVHC Inc. - San Antonio, TX Present • Develop and communicate strategy related to security tools and capabilities  • Draft, implement, and maintain enterprise security technical controls and related infrastructure systems for the enterprise  • Design, develop and implement security-related systems and/or technologies.  • Partner with information technology teams in the design and implementation of systems, applications, processes, and/or other related technologies to adhere to security and compliance best practices, regulations, laws, and/or company programs, procedures, policies and guidelines  • Function as the security technical SME for security related incidents; Perform forensic analysis of security incidents  • Assess and respond to known and new security threats Sr. Systems Administrator Formosa Plastics Corporation, U.S.A. - Point Comfort, TX February 2015 to February 2016 • Imaging of the system in order to back up data and for reinstallation purposes.  • Network configuration and support for hardware and software issues.   • Level Three Help Desk duties including: Account Issues, Microsoft Exchange troubleshooting and hardware and software configurations and installation  • Deploy Virtual and Physical servers and workstations.   • Apply security patches through Microsoft and Admin policies  • Maintain Active Directory InfraStructure to include all systems attached. IE KASE   • Monitor security alerts threw Symantec Endpoint protection Manager to include possible intrusions/ Creating month and weekly reports.  • Creating month and weekly reports to create incident reports track any alerts that are generated.  • Created documentation to keep track of all server PMs and security audits to include user guidelines and procedures.  • Monitor and maintain routers and switch devices with PRTG monitoring tool. Systems Administrator Schlumberger - San Antonio, TX September 2012 to December 2014 • Imaging of the system in order to back up data and for reinstallation purposes.  • Network configuration to meet network security standards  • Troubleshooting remotely as well as locally  • General Help Desk duties including: password resets, Microsoft Exchange troubleshooting and hardware and software configurations and installation  • Updated systems with security patches through Microsoft and Schlumberger policies  • Maintained read and write access for multiple users on a file server   • Created graphs to monitor testing and progress through the use of Excel   • Designed systems that ensured quality of material.   • General maintenance and calibration of equipment. Multifunctional Sr. System's Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology - San Antonio, TX January 2006 to August 2012 • Provided program support to project MC4 by developing, analyze, modify, implement, documentation to EMR’s saved on the database Dell Servers.   • Serves as the technical lead on Active Directory Design and maintenance.  • Served as a Systems Administrator (SA) for units in the US Central Region and overseas as required and ensured that system downtime was minimal by ensuring that all systems were operational.   • Served as an assistant manager as well as an acting manager for 45 personnel to support over fifty different network systems in Iraq. Conducted protocol analysis and knowledge of LAN and WAN data communications protocols (TCP/IP); plan and perform fault management, configuration control, and performance monitoring; Conduct activation, back-up, deactivation, and restart of network resources/services.   • Developed, planned and provided sophisticated information System, end-user training on highly complex computer hardware, application software, new systems and related procedures.   • Developed and maintain documentation for procedures and processes, as well as, maintenance logs and equipment databases; effectively communicated orally and in writing  • Wrote and maintained documentation of system inventories and systems reports on the health and status of the systems.   • Overall supervision of system, modifying, upgrading and reporting on system changes  • Provided phone and on-site customer support as well as any other tasks that were assigned from the MC4 project manager. Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology Management American Military University January 2014 to May 2017 Skills • Hardware Experience: HP and Dell servers, laptops/desktops, Cisco, HP, 3COM, D-Link routers/switches/hubs, HP tape backup system, Intellipower UPS, and Lexmark, HP and Zebra printers. • Networking: LAN and Wireless Ethernet Architecture, CAT6 & 5 cabling and patch panels, TCP/IP, Telnet & FTP • Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows 7.0, XP, XP x64, 2000 and NT workstations, Windows Server 2012, 2008, 2003R2, Mac OS 7-9, Mac OSX (all versions) and Linux /Ubuntu 14 • Applications: Microsoft Outlook 2012 and 2007, Microsoft FrontPage 2012, Microsoft Office Suite 365, 2013, 2007 and 2003 Professional, McAfee and Norton Antivirus, Seagate/VERITAS Backup Exec, Microsoft Project 2012, 2007 and 2003, Norton Ghost 8.0, Apple X, LanSweeper 5, Remote Control, Fortis, Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager, Dell KASE, Device Lock, and PRTG switch monitoring . • Virtualization: VMWare, Virtual Machine, VMware Sphere Military Service Branch: United States Army Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant (E5) August 1996 to November 2014