Systems Engineer\ Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer\<span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Engineer\ Administrator - General Dynamics IT\ Emblem Health Middle Village, NY System Engineer with excellent hands-on experience on ESXi clustering, Windows clustering, SQL Windows clustering. Manage, install and maintain domain controllers, active directory, VDI infrastructure, networking and MS application support with a broad range of engineering, administration, troubleshooting, problem management and collaboration. Create technical documents. Detail-oriented individual with strong organizational and leadership skills. A team player and a self-starter. Expertise in the following:    • Server virtualization • Server and desktop administration  • Server cluster and load balance • Security and patch management  • Enterprise monitoring • Scripting and automation resolutions  • Servers and VDI deployment • Software installation and upgrade Work Experience Systems Engineer\ Administrator General Dynamics IT\ Emblem Health - New York, NY July 2016 to Present ·        Responsible for all day to day operations, ensured virtual infrastructure, ESXi, VM servers and VDI are up, troubleshoot, optimized for better performance and resolved reported issues.  ·        Reduced number of hours to build ESXi hosts by configuring HP ILO’s and Dell iDrac to remotely install and configure ESXi, BIOS firmware updates and configurations, monitor local hardware, NTP settings and sys logs.  ·        Designed, configured and deployed ESXi 6x servers, configured vSwitches, port groups, HA, DRS, VLANS and created ESXi profile for consistent ESXi configurations to hosts mission critical application for different business units.   ·        Increased system uptime, reliability and performance by updating all ESXi and vCenters to current version including VM hardware version , security hardening and deploying systems monitors for proactive notification for potential issues.  ·        Implemented, installed and configured VMware Horizon v7.4, deployed Windows 10 VDI with installed business applications to increase productivity with different remote user needs.  ·        Created a reliable server and data recovery by installing and configuring vDP6.1 to backup VM servers including backup replication to a different datacenter.   ·        Managed and maintained Xen apps and Xen Desktops v7.6 to maximized remote user experience, installed, configured and published applications for remote users that rely on configured clustered Xen Apps controller to load balance performance and resource utilization.  ·        Responsible in creating and maintaining standard Windows OS images, installed, configured and test published applications on Xen Apps including OS and application security hardening.  ·        Implemented Windows 2012 file and print cluster servers, managed all DFS shared directories, printers and drivers utilized by different departments for business collaborations.   ·        Managed Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, ADDS, LDAP on Windows 2012 on premise datacenters and GPO to automatically create roaming profiles, map printers and network drives, desktop customization and server and VDI hardening.   ·        Accountable in deploying all monthly Microsoft security patches, third party patches for Java, Adobe Reader, and MS Office Suite to fix application vulnerabilities utilizing SCCM 2016 and Ivanti (Shavlik) v9.03 on different environments.   ·        Developed PowerShell scripts to add bulk AD users for onboarding, modify user attributes, reset passwords, extract AD objects for reporting.   ·        Created PowerShell script to uninstall previous software installation, verify event logs and installed custom package software on desktops or servers.  ·        Designed and installed EPO v5.10 for endpoint security on all servers and VDI, developed security policies for servers and desktops in production, QA and Development environment including deploying .DAT updates and sending vulnerability and compliance reports.  ·        Managed on-premise Exchange servers and Office365, created users, distribution list, activate mailbox ActiveSync to ensure emails are delivered on mobile phones.  ·        Responsible in the integrity and efficiency of all servers by tuning servers for best performance, test and configure applications and created documentation of the infrastructure.   ·        Designed security processes by scanning Windows and applications vulnerability, test and apply patches to secure environment. Systems Engineer (Consultant) Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher and Flom LLP - White Plains, NY February 2016 to July 2016 • Created and installed new Windows 2012 domain controllers on production and DMZ environment, upgraded servers to Windows 2012 including the installation of hotfixes into the production environment.  • Implemented Microsoft security patch compliance on all servers to stop unnecessary services, roles and settings not currently utilized.  • Created and maintained Windows 2012 template on the vCenter 6 for automated deployment for different data centers. Provide server hardware and software support.  • Implemented and installed Skype for Business 2015 by upgrading Lync 2010 environment which involved on installing and configuring multiple Window 2012 front end server, Edge servers, share servers and SQL 2012 to store the CMS database and DNS entries to define SFB communication framework. Collaborate with network team for the configuration of load balancer.  • Monitored all 1,500 servers and 4000 desktops via SCOM 2007 for CPU utilization, disk space and server uptime and fix issues accordingly. Create document and Visio diagram. Systems Engineer Computer Generated Solutions - New York, NY 2014 to 2016 • Installed and configured vCenter 5.5 and vSphere 5.5 cluster environment including upgrade and maintenance to host different system infrastructure. Create LUNS and maintain EMC Networker backups. Troubleshoot all aspect of virtualization and provide resolutions.  • Installed and configured Windows 2008/2012 domain controller, DHCP and DNS, domain trust and replication. Upgrade Windows 2008 R2 to Windows 2012 R2 domain controller. Create group policies to automate standardize settings across domains.  • Managed and installed Windows 2012 file and print cluster servers, create group policies to standardize mapping drives and printers, manage all NTFS permissions and implement DFS to manage shared folder replications and hosting shared folders.  • Built standard Windows server and Windows desktop images for standard deployments utilizing WDS. Install and configure N-able and Kaseya suite for enterprise monitoring on all 5000 server and 10K workstations, endpoint security and software deployments.  • Designed and deployed terminal server farms and XenApps 7.8 for hosting different applications for different manage services clients. Provide troubleshooting and resolutions on all issues.  • Installed and configured SQL 2012 clusters on windows 2012 to host different databases for web servers, Sharepoint, CRM and BlueCherry application.  • Developed vbs and powershell scripts to automate active directory and Microsoft Exchange daily administrations, application installation and configuration and daily health checks on all servers.  • Accountable on the implementation and deployments of all software upgrades for all Windows servers and desktops , application hot fixes via SCCM, Kaseya or N-able.  • Responsible in creating user ID in active directory and Microsoft exchange, security groups, home drives and files share access. Migrate on premise Exchange to Microsoft 365 online and manage Skype for Business client communication. Provided site support for servers and applications including desktops, desktop applications and user support.  • Built web server farms for clients to host company web sites and other company offerings available via the internet.  • Accountable in facilitating between different IT engineers, vendors, users and management regarding overall infrastructure stability, operations and status of all current issues. Provide Tier III to all IT services, server hardware, Cisco routers, virtual environment and server tuning.  • Created documentations and Visio diagrams on all server farms and network infrastructure on all clients. Collaborate issues with clients and internal IT engineers to facilitate resolutions on all issues. Systems Engineer Volvo IT - Rockleigh, NJ 2009 to 2014 • Installed and configured ESXi clusters and XenApps to virtualize all physical servers for better performance, uptime and support efficiency including backup and troubleshooting issues.  • Installed, configured and tested different software integration to Windows environment. Create software packages with EMCO for automatic deployment with SCCM 2012. Create batch scripts for software installation including registry entries for legacy application integration on different OS platforms.  • Worked closely with developers to install and configure custom .NET applications for IIS 7 on Windows 2008. Provide product support, troubleshooting and resolution to issues. Maintain and monitor web applications for product updates and performance tuning.  • Built Windows OS images with MS Office Suite for QA environment in order to test OS images and custom application before deploying to production environment via WDS. Provide data gathering and work flow for testing for developers and system administrators.  • Responsible for the implementation of all security hotfixes, patches, McAfee anti-virus updates and removal of malware and virus infections on all Windows servers. Utilized Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer to create report and tasks of action for system owners.  • Built and maintained Windows 2012 IIS web cluster application on Windows 2008 servers for the Retailer Portal environment in order to generate business and support to Volvo dealers. Create multi-  • Planned and migrateg user data, shared folders and network printers on new server infrastructure in order to provide better security and performance for end-users.  • Accountable and configure all terminal servers farms hosting different mission critical applications including associated GPO for standardize settings on all servers and users.  • Installed and configured XenApps, mission critical applications including GPO for standardization.  • Manage and deploy all Windows patches, application hotfixes via WSUS and N-able including the end-point security deployments, server hardening, daily updates, and security analysis.  • Managed and implemented enterprise monitoring on all Windows servers, switches, ESXi, routers and desktop devices to proactively monitor and apply self-healing script for most of the alerts.  • Installed and maintained SQL 2008/2012 cluster servers for web application and CRM servers as part of retail portal application solution.  • Built and configured SFTP server for client's daily batch job upload business documents.  • Collaborated with global support engineers including local operation support to discuss on daily infrastructure issues, heavy troubleshooting, trends and resolutions. Coordinate all vendors to facilitate resolutions. System Administrator Tower Groups Companies - New York, NY 2007 to 2009 • Installed and configured ESX servers for hosting XenApp, domain controller, IIS 6, file servers, DNS and DHCP servers.  • Installed and configured domain controller servers for deployment to remote branch offices including DHCP, DNS, DFS, file and print servers.  • Built and maintained Exchange server, created mail boxes and all necessary archiving.  • Built and racked HP servers including ILO configuration for remote administration. Installed and administered FTP servers intended for business clients and Insurance agents.  • Installed and configured virtual servers for XenApp including the integration and publication of MS Office 2007, Image Right, WebPlus, IIS 6 and other mission critical applications.  • Implemented SCOM 2007 as an IT standard in monitoring all servers and applications. Installed and configured several Management Packs for monitoring Active Directory, Exchange clusters, SQL clusters, Citrix Farms, IIS, Web application, DFS, Network share, HP insight servers and network appliances.  • Created and maintained all Group Policy, login scripts for Domain and Citrix located on multi-domain structure. Develop different batch scripts for software installation, troubleshooting to fix issues.  • Created and deployed software packages via GPO, Kaseya and SMS. Authored several Thinapps packages such MS Offices 2007, Adobe Reader 9, WinZip, Image Right and other Company custom applications. Administer all software patches to all servers and workstations for better security.  • Consolidated all physical servers by utilizing P2V to virtualized and migrate these servers in the ESX cluster. Write VBS and batch scripting for running daily health checks on all the servers.  • Excellent troubleshooter and solution provider for ITIE infrastructure, Business managers and users. System Administrator/Engineer Merrill Lynch. Inc - Pennington, NJ 1997 to 2007 Managed and maintained active directory, domain controllers, market data servers and Wealth Management Financial desktops. Education BS in Management San Sebastian College - Manila 1983 Skills Active directory, Dns, Exchange, Iis, Tcp/ip, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Linux, Red Hat, SCCM, Redhat, Linux Administrator Additional Information Technical Skills:    Software  Windows 2016, Windows 2012, Windows 2008, Active Directory, ESX, AWS, ThinApps, IIS 9, Exchange 2013, DHCP, TCP/IP, DNS, vSphere 6x, WireShark, Perfmon, XenDesktop, EMC SAN, Network, RedHat Linux, FTP, McAfee, ePO, batch script, Visual Basic, PowerShell and AutoIt scripting, Bloomberg, SiteScope, MS Office Suite , Microsoft TFS, Windows 8/10, BackupExec, N-Able, Horizon v7.4, vDP6.1, Ivanti v9.03    Hardware  HP, IBM, Dell, EMC VNXe SAN servers, desktops and laptops, HP and Xerox printers, Ethernet 10\100\1000, ILO, RAID, iSCSI, HBA cards.