Lead Systems Engineer (WebSphere Administrator) Lead <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer (WebSphere <span class="hl">Administrator</span>) Data Scientist | Data Analyst | Business Intelligence Cary, NC A former WebSphere Administrator with 10 years' experience who currently has his sights on a full-time Data Analyst position. Experienced in Excel, Python/R, SQL, Tableau, and Machine Learning. An insatiable learner who loves acquiring new skills and tackling new challenges. Strong emphasis on working collaboratively with a like-minded team, excellent communicator, customer-centric, and solution provider. Work Experience Lead Systems Engineer (WebSphere Administrator) Metropolitan Life Insurance Company - Cary, NC April 2015 to August 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Installation, configuration, and maintaining IBM Http Server, WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment (ND), 6.0/6.1/7.x/8.x. Created profiles using Profile Creating Wizard and silent profile creation.  ? Migration of existing applications from WebSphere V6.x to V7.x to 8.x.  ? Migration of the automated deployment process, wsadmin scripts for Production/Test/Development from WebSphere Application Server ND 6.x to WebSphere Application Server ND 8.x.  ? Clustering Topology in WebSphere Application Server ND V6.x/ 7.x to achieve Work Load Management (WLM), High availability, Load Balancing and Hardware failover.  ? Updating the SSL certificates using the ikeyman tool.  ? Coordinating with various teams to set up databases, set up load balancer (CSS load balancers) rules, and defines rules on the firewall when IBM Http Server is in the De Militarized Zone (DMZ).  ? Tuning the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) by specifying the minimum and maximum heap size.  ? Troubleshooting Admin Server start-up issues, Memory leaks, Java code defects after deployment, and class path issues.  ? Provide 24x7 on call rotation support. Senior Systems Engineer (WebSphere Administrator) Metropolitan Life Insurance Company - Boston, MA May 2012 to March 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Installation, configuration, and maintaining IBM Http Server, WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment (ND), 6.0/6.1/7.x/8.x. Created profiles using Profile Creating Wizard and silent profile creation.  ? Migration of existing applications from WebSphere V6.x to V7.x.  ? Migration of the automated deployment process, wsadmin scripts for Production/Test/Development from WebSphere Application Server ND 6.x to WebSphere Application Server ND 7.x.  ? Installing EARs, WARs and configured application specific JVM settings, Web container parameters using the Admin Console and WSADMIN.  ? Configuring WAS with Security Appliances such as LDAP.  ? Configured WebSphere resources like JVM heap settings, JDBC providers, JDBC data sources, connection pooling, Virtual Hosts, Global Security and SSL.  ? Updating the SSL certificates using the ikeyman tool. Systems Engineer (WebSphere Administrator) Metropolitan Life Insurance Company - Mumbai, Maharashtra November 2009 to April 2012 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Member of WID (WebSphere Infrastructure Development) group which deals with providing engineering and operational services for web infrastructure and technologies.  ? Provide 24x7 support of AIX based Application servers running WebSphere Application Server on Development to Production environments for all Metlife Business Units.  ? Assist in deployment troubleshooting and working closely with AD teams for issues related to WAS Infrastructure from DEV-PROD. Provide Level-3 escalation support to issues related to web application infrastructure, troubleshooting and root cause analysis.  ? Handle change, incident and problem tickets via Remedy and Lotus notes DB and maintaining the SLA for the same.  ? Documenting and setting process for technical related activity within the organization. WebSphere Instructor, Faculty Member Bright Computers - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2008 to August 2009 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Create, evaluate, improve, and enhance curriculum and presentations for Bright Computers & Training Institute.  ? Initiate customer outreach training programs enabling IBM's customer to better implement business solutions.  ? Conduct workshops & seminars.  ? Ensure best quality of education delivered.  ? New/Existing Students' engagement Education Data Analytics University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill - Chapel Hill, NC January 2019 to July 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering Nagpur University - Nagpur, Maharashtra 2003 to 2007 Skills Git, PYTHON, FLASK, MATPLOTLIB, TENSORFLOW, MACHINE LEARNING, MONGODB, NOSQL, DATA MANIPULATION, DATABASE, MYSQL, SQL, TABLEAU, VISUALIZATION, AIX, Apache, Middleware, AIX, HTTP, Apache, IBM Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bhaveshnema http://github.com/bhaveshnema Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/webmdfohkctdnzfw Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/scymtoxn5hzbw3j Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/t-3vdvlgjelvqysb Data Analysis — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/82pkqessk0zor2tu Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.