Site Reliability Engineer Site Reliability Engineer Linux Systems Engineer/DevOps - High Performance Computing Sumner, WA Site Reliability Engineer who welcomes challenges in applying the concepts of software engineering to infrastructure and operations with the goal to create ultra scalable, reliable software systems.     I would welcome an opportunity to discuss my qualifications further. Feel free to contact me at my email address or by phone (253-797-1745) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Site Reliability Engineer Whitepages, Inc - Seattle, WA February 2016 to Present Provide Linux systems administration and performance tuning in a large scale AWS environment.      Experience using Puppet, Chef and Ansible as well as experience using Jenkins.    Infrastructure knowledge including networking (Cisco/Juniper), load balancers (Nginx, AWS ALB/ELB/NLB), firewalls (Juniper) and WAF (AWS Shield Advance/WAF).    Implement and support large Kubernetes environment in AWS.    Proficient in Amazon Web Services (S3, EC2, VPC, AMI, RDS, Elasticache, Transit Gateway, IAM, and Cloud Formation Templates).     Build and deploy custom docker containers.    Implement highly available Kafka cluster in AWS as part of logging pipeline using Fluentd and custom Go-Lang consumers to process logs at scale.     Build continuous integration pipelines using Jenkins, Groovy, Python, and Bash in order to operationalize deployments of complex AWS Cloudformation Stacks.     Implement and manage Prometheus monitoring to instrument systems and alerting on events using integrations with PagerDuty.     Build workflow automation tools using Python, Python-Flask including designing unit tests and building Jenkins based CI/CD pipelines.      Application design, development, API Programming using Python/GoLang, HTML, CSS.      Support System Development Lifecycle using tools such as Git, Jenkins, Jira and Confluence.   HPC/Linux/Unix Systems Administrator Voiland College of Engineering, Washington State University - Pullman, WA May 2013 to February 2016 Designed, built, and tested embedded Linux systems using ARM (RaspberryPI) and X86 based systems to support smart home data collection in the field. These systems leveraged the zigbee radio protocol to facilitate data collection from multiple endpoints which included motion, temperature and ambient light sensors. The software/firmware was based on a heavily modified Debian distribution using mostly Python to provide the logic for interpreting sensor data collected over a serial port into meaningful information which was uploaded via a secure REST API over SSL.    Managed large, distributed computer environment comprised of data collection devices deployed in residence and businesses.    Implemented a publisher/subscriber architecture to facilitate real time data collection and analysis, built using a combination of PHP and Python. Python was used for the heavy lifting in terms of analysis and PHP was used for its ease of web development.     Provided support for multi-terabyte PostgreSQL databases for data collection.  Provided platform support for a variety of vendor platforms including HP, Dell, and SuperMicro based hardware.     Supported a high performance computing environment running codes written in a variety of languages including C/C++, Java and Fortran used in research and analysis of data.    Provided leadership and guidance to student developers to engineer a variety of solutions related to smart home and Artificial Intelligence research.     Expert Linux experience including customization of distributions to meet a variety of needs.    Managed server infrastructure to support data collection efforts including LDAP/Kerberos, DNS, NTP, Samba, NFS, Postgresql and Apache server environments. High Performance Computing Systems Administrator (Linux/Unix Systems Administrator) Washington State University Information Technology Services - Pullman, WA September 2010 to May 2013 Integral member of a team responsible for implementing an enterprise wide Zabbix based monitoring solution contributing expertise in performance management, MySQL database implementation and administration.    Instrumental in forming collaborative relationships with research faculty and Information Services to provide tailored support services for research.    Implemented Puppet and MCollective as part of a pilot project to automate systems administration tasks.  Implemented Subversion based project management and source code management platform.   Managed and maintained a 1,968 core High Performance Computing Cluster based on Redhat EL 5 using Infiniband interconnects.    Managed Moab and Torque scheduling/resource management applications.    Supported XCat provisioning and management tools for high performance computing.    Build systems automation scripts using Python and BASH.    Compiling and optimization of system codes using Intel compiler suite and GCC.    Debugging of software using strace, dbg, and valgrind.    Provided top notch customer experience for WSU Researchers including understanding their challenges and developing innovative ways to solve those problems in addition developing of end user policy documentation.    Supported over 70 TB of IBM General Parallel File System (GPFS).    Designed and develop web based applications to provide tools for researchers.    Instrumental in forming collaborative relationships with research faculty and Information Services to provided tailored support services for research.    Implemented Puppet and MCollective as part of a pilot project to automate systems administration tasks. Linux and Unix Systems Administrator Washington State University Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture October 2006 to September 2010 Managed and mentor student employees.    Solely responsible for developing, managing, and providing performance tuning of a sixty node High Performance Computing Cluster running on Linux, Sun Grid Engine, and Torque/Maui.    Worked closely with researchers to obtain technology requirements to customize the High Performance Computing Cluster environment for optimal efficiency and usability.    Supported and managed MPI implementations, including OpenMPI and MPICH2, and provide integration with with Sun Grid Engine.    Proficient in using Gnu Compiler Collection to build platform optimized binaries.    Expert knowledge managing Redhat and Debian Linux distributions, including building customized packages, kernel modifications, file system management, performance tuning and security.    Designed and develop high performance computing integration tools facilitating convenient access via web services using Perl, Java, and PHP.    Knowledgeable in implementing clustered file systems including Lustre, Glusterfs, and PVFS.    Experienced implementing monitoring tools such as Ganglia and Nagios to monitor node availability and performance.    Responsible for managing server system hardware including fiber channel attached storage, enterprise grade server hardware (HP, SUN), and HP Procurve Managed Switches.    Designed, implemented, and managed security for a large server environment comprised of over seventy servers including firewall configuration, user account management, file system permissions, and responding to security incidents.    Experienced managing NFS and Samba in an enterprise environment.    Solely responsible for implementing LDAP in a large Linux/Solaris environment to centralize account management.    Implemented and managed Oracle 10g and Postgresql relational database management systems in an enterprise environment, including performing data normalization, managing security, planning backup and recovery, and database tuning.    Managed backup and recovery for approximately ten Terrabytes of data.    Designed, Implemented Drupal Websites including http://www.bioinfo.wsu.edu, http://www.rosaceae.org/, http://www.rosbreed.org/, and http://www.cacaogenomedb.org/.    Developed web based applications in PHP, Perl, and Java.    Managed Apache, Nginx, and Tomcat web application servers in a high availability configuration using HAProxy. Systems Administrator Washington State University Information Technology Services April 2006 to October 2006 Managed and maintained approximately seventy Microsoft Windows 2000/2003 servers in a team environment.    Implemented Microsoft Project Server and provided training to the project management team.    Managed active directory organizational unit for Information Technology Services. Java Web Developer Idaho State Department of Health and Welfare August 2005 to April 2006 Administered BEA Weblogic Servers in a clustered environment.    Configured and maintained a high availability IIS Web Farm.    Integrated applications with the Thunderstone Search appliance using C# and RESTful web services.    Used software code management tools including Visual Source Safe and CVS.    Developed and maintained Java application code.    Managed Oracle 9i on windows platform including performance tuning, backup and recovery. Geographic Information Systems Analyst Ada County September 2003 to August 2005 Was personally responsible for designing and developing Idaho's first ever web based Property Information System for Ada County using Tomcat, Linux, ArcIMS, and Microsoft SQL Server.    Implemented and maintained Microsoft Windows Server 2003 and SQL Server 2000 to support a large GIS environment.    Designed and developed GIS tools using C#, Visual Basic, and Transact SQL. Programmer Ada County Information Technology - Boise, ID September 2001 to September 2003 Designed and developed C++ client server based applications in a team environment.    Created and maintained technical documentation.    Provided application support for end users. Help Desk Consultant University of Idaho Information Technology - Moscow, ID August 1999 to May 2001 Provided technical support for Windows NT/2000 HP-Unix, and Novell Netware while ensuring a high level of customer service for faculty, staff, and students in a higher education environment.    Provided web design training to faculty, staff and students.    Troubleshoot complex networking problems using common Unix tools. Education B.S. in Information Systems University of Idaho - Moscow, ID 2001 B.S. in Environmental Science University of Idaho - Moscow, ID 1998 Skills Linux (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), Python (5 years), Postgresql (5 years), MySQL (6 years), Puppet (3 years), Postfix (6 years), Apache (10+ years), Nginx (3 years), Lighttpd (5 years), High Performance Computing (10+ years), c/c++ (2 years), Network Security, GoLang (1 year), Jenkins (3 years), Kubernetes (2 years), Prometheus (3 years), Grafana (3 years)