Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - United Airlines Erie, CO High energy, results-oriented IT support professional with more than 15 years desktop support and technical documentation experience. Extensive computer/network operations experience in mixed computing environments including Windows, NetWare and UNIX. Innovative solutions and a solid reputation for productivity, complex problem resolution and professionalism. Background includes team management and leadership, employee evaluations, training, project management, hardware and software procurement, asset tracking, change control, system and application migrations, and SharePoint administration and development. Work Experience Systems Engineer United Airlines - Denver, CO 2017 to Present Deliver and support IT project implementation, products and services to United Airlines airports in the mountain region, including ANC, FAI, YEG, YYC, FSD, RAP, ATY, PIR, OKC, TUL, ABQ, SAF and DEN. Support all United wireless devices including Zebra baggage scanners, printers, asset scanners, and iOS iPhone and iPad devices. Provide support for various IT projects in the mountain region, including sales laptop deployments and ServiceNow implementations. Principal Systems Engineer CO to Chicago, IL - Denver, CO 2011 to 2016 Acted as interim manager and migrated Field Services Technical Support team from Denver, CO to Chicago, IL. Hired, fired and managed staffing of employees and contractors for a team of 30 plus. Mentored team members, assigned and monitored tasks, and acted as the lead for project and support escalations. Performed performance evaluations. Developed and taught training classes to field technicians and technical support staff. Certified hardware and software products prior to field implementation. Updated and reviewed technical documentation and web repositories on the Field Services Support SharePoint and ftp sites. Provided phone metrics to team and management. Monitored phone calls and ticket logs to provide feedback for improvement. Hosted bi-monthly meetings with Decision One and ESP vendor managers to disseminate relevant support information. Managed the mobile classroom training environment including profile maintenance, requests, builds and shipment. Systems Engineer United Airlines - Denver, CO 2010 to 2011 Provided third level hardware and software support to field engineers and vendor technicians in a Microsoft Windows environment composed of SCCM and HPCA managed Windows devices. Remotely supported desktops using HPCA, RDP, VNC, and Console One remote control. Updated technical documentation, web repositories, and published technical advisories. Certified hardware and software products. Helped install, developed and maintained a Microsoft SharePoint team repository.  Promoted to Principal Engineer. Independent Contractor Denver, CO 2009 to 2010 Provided third level hardware and software support to field engineers throughout the world. Completed assigned projects ranging from legacy desktop image updates to implementing new technologies for cellular network mobile training classrooms. IT Systems Technician United Airlines account - Denver, CO 2006 to 2009 Provided second and third level support to EDS and Decision One field technicians. Packaged, scripted, and distributed software application updates to thousands of legacy desktops using Netwizard Branch Distribution Managers. Assisted with the implementation of Wyse terminals and IER printers to replace legacy hardware. Became group SME for this implementation and all related software and back-end systems. Systems Administrator Advanced Coors Brewing Company account - Golden, CO 2005 to 2006 Collaborated with desktop, server, security, and architecture teams, Coors VIPs, and end users to resolve complex problems as part of a third level support group. Tested and approved all new desktop and laptop images prior to release. Tested core applications for compatibility with latest service pack and security updates. Tested and approved group policy changes prior to implementation in Active Directory. Systems Administrator Advanced EDS Field Services - Louisville, CO 2001 to 2005 Provided desktop support and performed LAN administration tasks in a Windows 2000 server environment. Installed, configured and supported all hardware and software applications. Migrated all users from NetWare to Windows Active Directory and upgraded all desktops to Windows XP. Provided VIP support to executive staff members. Assisted with migration of an in-house HR system to an Oracle database. Information Support Specialist EDS Field Services, Neodata Account - Louisville, CO 1996 to 2005 Controlled and maintained the Neodata model office environment. Installed applications, system updates, and coordinated testing with systems engineers and end users. Created application packages to automate distribution using Novell's Zenworks/Application Launcher and distributed these updates to all servers and workstations in North America. Participated in daily Change Review Board and created technical documentation on a web site for field technician access. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science The College of the Ozarks - Point Lookout, MO Skills Visio, Sharepoint, Avaya, Citrix, Netware, Systems administration, Cms, Mdm, Openview, Peregrine, Remedy, Server administration, Sun, Aps, Vantive, Documentation, Technical documentation, Zenworks, Problem resolution, Service center Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ameliakeeth