Technical Support Technical Support Technical Support - SolarWinds Vineyard, UT Work Experience Technical Support SolarWinds April 2018 to Present Software infrastructure monitoring support for various monitoring solutions including: Enterprise Operations Center, Network Performance Monitor, Network Traffic Analyzer, Server and Application Monitor, Log Analyzer, High Availability, Security Event Manager, ipMonitor and Kiwi Syslog Server. Troubleshooting Fortune 500 company infrastructure monitoring installations and environments as well as virtual infrastructures, operating systems (Windows/Linux/Unix), networks, SAN/DAS/NAS, SQL Server and log and security related issues. Basically, any issue that would hinder or cause performance issues to software or impede nodes being monitored correctly. Root cause analysis. Recognized as top in cases closed and customer referrals final quarter of 2018. Consistently one of the top 3 in cases closed in the entire company for the last year. Systems Engineer Kangaponics July 2016 to July 2017 Systems engineering for a hydroponics/aquaponics company specializing in "monitored hydroponics". In house development of agricultural and robotic monitoring technologies including CentOS Linux, Windows Servers (AD, DNS, IIS), Oracle VirtualBox, FTP servers and scripting and development. Systems Admin inContact September 2014 to June 2016 Systems administrator for a voice technology company specializing in "call center in the cloud", supporting over 1000 Windows servers. Monitoring using technologies like Solarwinds IP Monitor, BMC Pulse. Technologies include Windows Servers (AD, DNS, IIS), Vmware vSphere and vCenter, HP 3Par and EVA storage systems, HP Proliant servers and blades, FTP servers and some scripting and development. On call rotation every 3 weeks plus outage windows twice a week and during weekends. Wrote dozens of tech documents. Spearheaded Systems Operations department reorganization outlining of functions, responsibilities and changes. Averaged over 25 tickets a day over two years, higher than anyone else in engineering. Organized all domain and SSL hosting under one provider. Developed FTP trainings for tech support departments. Systems Engineer American Heritage School July 2013 to July 2014 Duties included all IT related functions such as systems, networking, storage and development. Maintained a variety of infrastructures including Windows 2008/2012 servers (AD, DNS, IIS), Windows Exchange 2008, Ubuntu and FreeNAS Linux, Cisco, Dell and HP networking devices, HP SAN's, BICSI cabling standards, desktop support of Windows 7/8/10. Upgraded all desktops pushing images using Linux FOG. Upgraded firmware on HP SAN and HP ProCurve switches. Installed, upgraded and maintained ESET antivirus setup. Upgraded and maintained StorageProtect and BackupExec backups. Responsible for all BlueHost websites as well as all domain hosting and SSL certificates. Upgrading and maintenance of GFI mail filter. Upgrading and maintenance of Quickbooks server. Daily monitoring and support for Edgewave iPrism Secure Web Gateway. Systems Engineer Lescure Technology June 2011 to June 2013 Lead of systems/network/software engineering for a small technology company. Daily contract work for businesses and city infrastructures. Technologies included Microsoft, Cisco, Citrix XenApp, NetApp and Vmware engineer. Lead over all projects including fuel oil load balancing, Cisco ASA installations and upgrades, backup systems, SAN installations (NetApp, HP), network upgrades (Dell, Cisco), desktop and server installations, upgrades, maintenance and monitoring (Quest NMS), VPN connections and Windows 2003/2008/2012 and 2011 SBS servers (AD, DNS, IIS) and domains. Maintained partnerships with Microsoft, Citrix, Vmware, McAfee, CrashPlan, Cisco, NetApp and Dell. ERP SME for TigerPaw. McAfee antivirus infrastructure installations and maintenance. Monitoring of all client's systems using Quest NMS. Systems Administrator Chevron June 2007 to June 2011 Systems administrator responsible for all ERP department and Chevron IT infrastructure in Chevron's data centers supporting over 4000 physical and virtualized servers. Windows 2003/2008 Servers (AD, DNS, IIS) - SCCM and SCOM, MS SQL Server 2005, Linux systems, F5 and Juniper load balancers, VMware, HP Proliant servers and blades, Cisco, Brocade and Citrix. Upgraded Windows ERP infrastructure from vSphere 3.5 to 4. Saved ERP department money internally by creating Cisco/Brocade Vmware management network. C#/VB.net/PoweShell/SQL Server 2005 used for ERP department inventory. SAP, JDE Edwards and Arriba ERP environments on Windows and Unix/Linux servers. ERP backups SME: EMC Networker and vSphere vRanger backups (tape SAN, offsite, etc.). Program Engineer Schneider Electric CST February 2005 to June 2007 Program engineer working as a 20% dedicated software engineer and 80% dedicated project engineer including network and systems architecture and administration. Also worked as a shared resource between the IT and Programming departments. Technologies included C#/VB.Net, Windows NT4/2000/2003 servers (AD, DNS, IIS), Linux/Unix/Solaris Servers, MS SQL Server 2000, Veritas Clustering HA, Cisco and Brocade networks, robotic hardware support and Visual Studio software development. Software Engineering Consultant Engineering Network Consultants March 2003 to December 2003 Software and systems engineering consultant. Application development, formal testing and final implementation of thin client server applications created in C#, SML, NetCobol, MS SQL Server 2000 database and cubing, Oracle 9, HTML, ASP and Windows IIS. Programmer Analyst II Systron Donner Inertial Division October 1999 to September 2002 IT department programmer with systems and networking responsibilities. Duties included financial application development, network and systems engineering and support, ERP systems administration, web development for internet and intranet sites, database development and administration (MS SQL Server), desktop support. Education BA in Spanish Brigham Young University - Provo, UT Assessments Sales Skills: Influence & Negotiation — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively use influence and negotiation techniques to engage with and persuade customers. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/n3mt7wcyhqzirpza Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.