Senior Systems Administrator, Mainframe Change Management Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Mainframe Change Management Senior Systems Administrator, Mainframe Change Management Nashua, NH Motivated mid-level administrator open to a position with the opportunity to develop new skills, and to extend current abilities using prior work experience. One who applies an 'attention to detail' work approach to ensure the utmost performance. Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator, Mainframe Change Management FIDELITY INVESTMENTS, Headquarters - Boston, MA 1987 to 2017 Boston, MA 02109 1987-2017  Joined as an administrative assistant to the President of Technical Operations, Systems Company, continually promoted in observance of strong skill set and highly motivated performance efforts. Two of the more recent, longest and prominent positions listed below.    Senior Systems Administrator, Mainframe Change Management  • Administrative duties included:  ? Review, approval and execution of open project requests.  * Using ticket management tools, verified project content, including detailed description information and upper management approval were present in the assigned ticket.  * Rectified all invalid ticket entry discrepancies.  * Provided approval authorization for all fully reviewed and authenticated tickets prior to live production activation.  * Executed developer code migration through secure mainframe environments, as instructed by the associated project ticket request; and prevented production instability by validating successful installations.  ? Processed maintenance request forms relating to:  * Removal of module information from various ENDEAVOR product environments.  * The assignment, or sign-out, of module usage and ownership to the development community.  * Added, updated and removed module entries and programmer and management related content within a SUBSYS tool of the ENDEAVOR product.  ? Provided support for failed open ticket requests and code migrations.  ? Processed access requests by providing the development user community security clearance to the View Direct reporting system, including various reports extracted from mainframe applications.  * Added, updated and deleted user profiles and online access in coordination with job title.  * Aligned with Information Security, troubleshooting methods to resolve risk related access and failed security discrepancies.  ? Consulted in audit reviews.  * Provided outside audit staff the information and tools necessary to examine both mainframe production installations and reporting systems.  ? Managed department inbox, addressing service, support and discrepancy requests for large development community.    ? Successfully and accurately maintained ongoing weekly/monthly release projects, preventing potential issues for a clean production environment, prior to project completion deadlines.  * Utilized a strict time management format for time sensitive projects resulting in a successful client install process.  • Products and applications used: Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Word and Excel, ENDEAVOR, Service Manager, Service Now, PACE, View Direct.  Achievements/Accomplishments  *You're a Star service recipient, 2008, in recognition for developer support in numerous client related projects    Technology Risk Analyst  • Information Security/Identity and Access Management  ? Processed access request (forms) to determine appropriate security related usage.  * In accordance with internal Information Security standards, confirmed employee access qualifications, per job position, prior to security allowance.  ? Designated and managed internal customer access to various production applications and systems.  * Within FBSI and Top Secret security application systems, added, updated and deleted employee user identification and access profiles.  ? Maintained user security regulations in alignment with internal Information Security policies.  * Researched and identified access discretions whereupon the elimination of unwarranted access to security sensitive systems was removed.  ? Performed troubleshooting methods to resolve security related access issues.  * Researched and resolved access-denied profile discrepancies for users unable to perform daily tasks.  ? Consulted in audit reviews.  * Provided outside audit staff the necessary information required for security tracking processes, including user, profile and transaction information.  • Products Used: Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Word and Excel, FBSI, Top Secret.  Achievements/Accomplishments  *Outstanding Service Award, 1993, in recognition of maintaining secure internal user profile management including customer support relations. Education New Hampshire Real Estate School August 2018 to 2019 Associates Degree in Merchandising Fisher College - Boston, MA Melrose High School - Melrose, MA