S Systems Administrator S <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> S Systems Administrator - TD Securities Poughkeepsie, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience S Systems Administrator TD Securities - New York, NY November 2018 to Present Infrastructure and Client Support  Tasks: • Setup and Deploy Users and Environments.  • Monitor servers via Nagios and Microsoft SCOM • Perform Backups and restores via Evault.  • Laisse between Clients and Engineers or Management.  • QA fixes before releasing fix to client machines.  • On call support.  • Perform Datacenter Inventory. S Systems Engineer Consultant Freelance Work - York, ON February 2017 to Present Build Infrastructures for Clients(Cherry Tree Lane Development).  Tasks: • Setup and Deploy Development Environments.  • Setup GIT repositories.  • Create Virtual machines via AWS for sand boxing and QA.  • Network Administration for cloud instances and local network.  • Troubleshoot development environments..  • Network Monitoring via Nagios and OpwnNMS. Senior Linux Systems Engineer Consultant Jefferies - New York, NY February 2016 to February 2017 Oversee 115 Red Hat Enterprise Linux Servers and Virtual Machines that cover the trading Infrastructure.  Tasks: • Deploy and Manage RHEL and CentOS 6 and 7 Servers via Kickstart.  • Patch Management via Spacewalk.  • Documentation via Confluence.  • Project Management Applications and handling via JIRA.  • Vendor Management.  • Server 3rd Level Support.  • Network Monitoring and Troubleshooting on all networked equipment • Administer storage via netapp onTap 8.3.1.  • Active Directory Administration for Unix Integration.  • Windows Group Policy Management.  • Package creation and management via RPM and Yum.  • Engineer and Deploy scripts to efficiently run repetitive tasks- Bash • Network Monitoring via Nagios , then Sensu (Uses Nagios Plugins).  • Log aggregation and management through ELK Stack • Config management via Puppet.  • Windows Server 2008 Management. Senior Linux Systems Administrator Flo Solutions - New York, NY October 2014 to July 2015 Oversee 50 Linux Servers and Infrastructure that span all facets from Hardware VM and Cloud Infrastructure.  Tasks: • Deploy Web facing Debian CMS servers • Implement updates and security patches to internet facing tomcat application servers.  • Bash Scripting to efficiently perform repetitive tasks.  • troubleshoot outages and issues spanning network Hardware OS and VM.  • Capacity plan for expansion.  • Script software updates and deployments • Migration from Debian Wheezy to CentOS 7 OS.  • Config management through Salt Stack.  • Implemented Network Monitoring via Nagios.  • Patch and Software management through apt and Ansible.  • Control access to services via IPTables firewall.  • Setup Docker container. Remote Systems Administrator Data Center Administration - New York, NY January 2006 to June 2015 Description: Off Hours Support of All Clients of Boutique Consulting Firm.  Tasks: • Monitor Various Web facing Servers and Network Equipment of Multiple Clients through Nagios.  • Report and troubleshoot outages.  • Create shell scripts to deploy Web applications.  • Data Center Administration.  • Network Administration • Network Monitoring via Nagios. Senior Linux Systems Administrator Bluesky Studios - Greenwich, CT March 2012 to October 2014 Oversee 500 Linux Workstations and associated Servers that span all facets from concept to production of the movie lifecycle.  Tasks: • Deploy workstations to new users.  • Migrated Operating Systems from Fedora to a Red hat Enterprise Linux Compatible distribution (CentOS 7).  • Active Directory Administration.  • Group Policy Management.  • OpenLDAP Administration.  • Created Bash Scripts to automate repetitive tasks.  • Implemented trend monitoring Solution based on Cacti.  • Re engineered and Deployed Nagios as Primary Monitoring Solution.  • Engineered Remote KVM solution with Teradici.  • Evaluate Opensource and Commercial Software for Production use.  • Deployed unified Printer Server for the various environments.  • Re engineered Current SSH VPN solution* Utilizing OpenVPN.  • Package creation and management via RPM and Yum.  • Administer VMWARE ESXi Infrastructure to deploy purpose built servers.  • Managed OpenBSD Firewall via pf tables.  • Implemented Network Monitoring via Nagios • Config management through Puppet/Foreman.  • Windows Server 2008 Management. Vice President (Linux Engineering) Millennium Partners L.P - New York, NY November 2005 to March 2012 Oversee over five thousand Linux (RHEL and CentOS) and Unix Systems (Solaris) for our various business units and strategies.  Tasks: • Manage and implemented Bluecoat Proxy Secure Gateway Proxy Appliances.  • Constructed a unique VPN Infrastructure for Teleworkers Utilizing various Opensource Technologies.  • Managed OpenBSD and Cisco ASA Firewalls for VPN access • Managed Bluecoat Proxy ServerCreated basic Shell Scripts to automate various functions involving patch installation and downloads and general maintenance of Workstations.  • Package creation and management via RPM and Yum.  • Engineered a Monitoring system for the Linux and Windows Workstations and printers Using Nagios.  • Account and Host Management over distributed Environment Via YP(NIS).  • Network Performance Tuning.  • Active Directory Administration.  • Group Policy Management.  • OpenLDAP Administration.  • Compile Custom Kernels to accommodate drivers that aren't supported in the kernel supported in the base Operating system.  • Created Bash Scripts to for custom OS deployments Post install.  • Utilized KVM in our initial VM Solution Evals.  • Data Center Administration.  • Network Administration • Deployed Vms under Xen under RHEL 5 • Supported over 400 Workstations from RHEL to CentOS* also Migrated from Fedora to RHEL4-6 During my time there.  • Administered Virtualization technologies such as VMWARE ESX and Citrix XenServer in our environment for various projects. Equities System Administrator Consultant Citi Group - New York, NY February 2004 to November 2005 Citigroup employs over 276*000 people worldwide. As an Equities System Administrator* I play a Hybrid role in supporting Both Unix (Solaris) and Windows based Workstations.  Tasks: • Provided Desktop and Server Support for Solaris* Systems.  • Network Troubleshooting and Performance tuning for Solaris Workstations.  • Support File Restores Via Veritas Netbackup.  • Data Center Administration.  • Network Administration • Built Custom Workstations implementing trader Technologies such as Dual to Quad Video* Memory upgrades* and peripheral upgrades.  • Created basic Shell Scripts to efficiently deploy maintenance such as: security patch installation install software, and manage configurations.  • Account and Host Creation over distributed Environment Via NisPlus. System Administrator Omnipod Inc - New York, NY May 2003 to November 2005 Omnipod is a web hosting firm (ASP) That provides secure encrypted instant messaging for clients. Employment started out as Full time* But upon gaining employment with Citigroup* I remained on a part-time weekend on call role.  Tasks: • Account Creation and Maintenance on Windows, Solaris, and Red hat Enterprise Linux.  • Created and Administered Backup policies for the Corporate Office for all Unix and Windows based Workstations and laptops.  • Implemented solutions for propagating system changes remotely via Native Windows tools.  • Engineered Samba PDCs for Migration from The Windows NT4 Environment.  • Provided a solution for content filtering so that laptops brought in would not infect the windows based workstations within the network.  • Implemented a System of auditing all PC hardware in the office.  • Deployed a Jumpstart Server and Several policies for unattended installation of new Solaris Servers.  • Created and Maintain Cabling infrastructure Throughout the Data Center and Corporate Offices.  • Desktop Support for Windows Workstations Ranging from Windows 98 to Windows XP PRO.  • Data Center Administration.  Network Administration  Perform various proactive Security Audits on Company Mission Critical Servers that are internet facing. Junior Systems Administrator Schonfeld Group - New York, NY January 2001 to December 2002 The Schonfeld group is a privately-Owned Equities trading Firm. I started my IT career here as Trade Floor Support* Then Moved up the ranks finally to a Junior Systems Administrator. All the while I Had a role in supporting over 1000 traders in various ways at the time.  Tasks as a Junior Systems Administrator: • Supported Operational Processing for Company's Equity Trading System Running on a Distributed Solaris 8 Environment* Which Supports over 1000 Traders and 150K trades per day.  • Provided Day-to-Day Support of 50 Solaris Desktop Systems and 10 Enterprise Servers.  • Performed Firmwide Support Of over 2000 PC Desktops* Laptops and Servers.  • Quality Assurance Tested and Applied firmwide Patch management and rollouts to all PC Desktops firmwide.  • Maintained Logon Scripts for all NT4 PC Domains.  • Assisted the Domain controller Migration from NT4 to Windows 2K.  • Tested Market Data Applications such as Reuters Plus and Instinet before rollout to clients.  • Deployed Veritas Net backup Infrastructure to Support Backup and Recovery of all Solaris and NT Servers and Workstations.  • Created and Maintained Centralized Print Servers • Administered Company Firewall and VPN access Policies Utilizing Checkpoint Firewall FW1.  • Established Solaris Install Servers and Patch Upgrade Policies. Schonfeld Group - New York, NY January 1999 to December 2001 Trade Floor Support  Tasks as Trade Floor Support: • Local and Network Account Creation and Maintenance on Windows NT4, 2000 and Solaris.  • Supported Entire Office of 120 Traders in Win2K* WINNT4, and Solaris Environments.  • Maintained Office Meridian Norstar PBX system.  • Implemented Security and Virus Protection Solutions.  • Engineered Login Scripts to Facilitate and provide Upgrades to User Environments.  • Administered RIS Servers to Upgrade From NT To Win2K workstations • Established and Supported Video Over IP (Video Conferencing). Education computers Skidmore College CCI - White Plains, NY April 1999 to June 1999 Computer Information Systems Westchester Community College - New York, NY 1997 to 1998 Skills Active Directory (9 years), Linux (10+ years), Nagios (10+ years), Network Monitoring (10+ years), Solaris (10+ years), Redhat, Linux Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, Red Hat Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  20+ years of Linux Engineer Experience, 20 years WinTel experience, Active Directory Administration, Group Policy Administration, RHEL, RPM, 5 years Solaris experience (Solaris 2.6 to 10) Troubleshooting, CentOS, Root Cause Analysys, Documentation, Support, Administration, Time Management, Prioritization, Problem Resolution, Ticket Management, Network monitoring, Customer Service, OS Migrations, Quality Assurance, Network Monitoring with Nagios, and Operating Systems such as Enterprise Linux, Microsoft Windows, and Solaris