Job Seeker Montclair, VA Work Experience Systems Engineering Team, ManTech Intl - Bethesda, MD February 2016 to Present • Performed a clean install of ESXi v6.5 and configured all test, pre-production, and production ESXi v6.5 Hosts  • Installed, configured and implemented Virtual Center Server Appliances v6.5 (VCSA 6.5) across all networks utilizing HP enclosures for hosting.  • Configured ESXi Hosts networking, created new/updated port groups, vlans, and imported the updated ESXi Hosts from the legacy vCenter 5.5 environment to the current VCSA 6.5 environment.  • Created and organized new clusters to enable a cleaner environment and workflow.  • Updated ESXi v6.5 Hosts to the most current update using Virtual Update Manager (VUM)  • STIGed v6.5 Hosts and added a Security Profile  • Deployed and configured new Windows and Linux RHEL 7.5 servers  • Monitored Splunk security logs and dashboards  • Maintained HP iLo enclosure certificates, licensing, and firmware on iLo versions 2, 3, and 4 Visitor Services Volunteer National Air and Space Museum - Washington, DC September 2011 to Present • Visitor Services representative and staff volunteer photographer at both National Air and Space Museum locations.  • Research artifacts, and provide documentation to visitors upon request. Site Lead DiTMAC - Arlington, VA December 2015 to February 2016 • Site Lead for the DITMAC (DoD Insider Threat) DSS kick off program  • Managed a team of 6 Network Engineers, Design Specialists for the DITMAC rollout tool  • Ensured core hours' coverage utilizing team members across the DiTMAC team Systems Administrator DHS HQ - Washington, DC June 2015 to September 2015 • Configuration management tasks related to all virtual servers, workstations and ESX Hosts using VM Ware 5.0  • Managed, configured, administered, and was the POC for Xceedium Suite software package used by DHS as a single point of access to their secured resources.  • Used VUM to update ESX Hosts during monthly maintenance VM Ware Systems Administrator Quantico, VA December 2014 to June 2015 • Configuration management tasks related to all virtual servers, workstations and ESX's in the classified/unclassified environment.  • Monitored Tasks and Events in vCenter to evaluate Virtual Machine performance during testing.  • Performed daily monitoring of ESX Hosts and VM in the virtual environment.  • Evaluated virtual machines current configurations and made recommendations to reallocate resources due to over allocating of resources. ie: decommissioned virtual machines, managed snapshots, extended hard drives, memory etc. Systems Administrator Schriever AFB, CO August 2014 to September 2014 Manage installation and maintenance of enterprise applications on unclassified and classified networks Lab Manager INSCOM - Fort Belvoir, VA March 2012 to August 2014 • Monitored Tasks and Events in vCenter to evaluate Virtual Machine performance during testing.  • Determined storage needs and usages for all test lab simulations.  • Documented processes before during and after government testing of the virtual machines.  • Implement and conduct daily analysis of DoD Information Assurance Vulnerability Management (IAVM) security requirements, to include current STIGS, IAVA and Retina Security Software updates, to ensure network security issues are identified immediately, communicated appropriately, and resolved in a timely manner. Systems Administrator Leader DIA RITF - Merrifield, VA July 2010 to March 2012 • Deployed new Windows 2003, 2008 and Linux VM servers and workstations using SLM templates, cloning new VMs from in Classified and Unclassified environments.  • Utilized vCenter to improve performance of virtual machines by adjusting the number of cpu's, increasing RAM, selecting storage, adjusting network adapters, installing/upgrading VM Ware tools, increasing and adding additional hard drives to VM's etc.  • Monitored tasks and events in vCenter to evaluate virtual machine performance during testing.  • Used vMotion to maintain ESX's and virtualized servers and workstations  • Manage OpsWare remediation tool to install, patch, and scan servers and workstations for compliance during server build process.  • Installed, configured, managed and maintained Retina Security Scanner software. Systems Administrator INSCOM - Fort Belvoir, VA January 2009 to July 2010 • Key engineer ensuring the completion of all mitigations, system configurations, and overall success of IDCNET 3-year Authority to Operate (ATO) Certification and Accreditation  • Configure synchronization, approvals, and maintenance of unclassified and classified Microsoft Windows Server Update Service (WSUS 3.0)  • Configure export/imports of all approved Windows updates; administer incremental/full backups of the updates contents and .cab files  • Configure date and time of deployment packages, and ensure network information assurance appliance Senior Systems Administrator DTRA - Fort Belvoir, VA August 2007 to January 2009 • Implemented Retina Security Scanner to evaluate/monitor four agency networks, and to identify vulnerabilities.  • Installed, configured, and administered four agency networks using Windows Update Server (WSUS) 3.0 to automatically update servers and workstations on the classified and unclassified networks.  • Responsible for updating IOS on Cisco 2600 routers and 2950 and 2960, and 3750 switches.  • Configured and maintained Cisco 5510 Adaptive Security Appliance and Cisco Pix 515e firewall.