Lead Apple / Macintosh Consultant Lead Apple / Macintosh Consultant Apple / Macintosh Technologist San Francisco, CA Paul Kalis is an Apple IT Professional. He received his Associates Degree in Graphic Design Processes from Pensacola Junior College in the mid 90’s and developed a career through the close integrations of the graphics world and technology. After spending many years perfecting and performing screen-printing separations and artwork. Ultimately “technology” won out and he became a full-time Apple Technician; working and receiving training from Apple as a Mac Genius and later running his own “Mac Centric” consulting firm in SF - Apple Korps. Continually working in the Tech and Arts; Paul has maintained photography ( film and digital ) as a hobby, traveling across the US for landscape, travel, and lifestyle photos. Along the way looking for the strangest locations for eating and drinking; finding the most “hole-in-the-wall” establishments to enjoy and photograph. Work Experience Lead Apple / Macintosh Consultant Apple Korps - San Francisco, CA April 2010 to October 2019 Outbound service and technician for Apple centric SMB/SOHO consultancy. Perform on site and remote  troubleshooting / preventative maintenance for 40+ clients; 250+ users in the Bay Area. Majority of clients small to mid size Advertising / Marketing firms. Use of both my Technical background  and Design / Production training to assist clients in technology management and usage.  Manage small team of technicians for managed clients and on demand clientele. Multiple client  contracts specializing in Jamf Pro Administration, upgrade and Management for Enterprise level  deployments with 1500+ users; Performing policy creation and revision, inventory collection and system deployment health reporting. Sr. Systems Administrator Ellation - San Francisco, CA October 2016 to January 2018 SME for all Macintosh Hardware and Software within 4 person IT / Corporate Operations team. Manage access using MS AD. Act as main point of administration for internal services and systems ( G- Suite, O365, LastPass, GitHub, Jira ) including VPN, File Sharing and international data access. Procured and built JAMF infrastructure to manage ~300 Mac users across 3 locations ( USA, Japan, Moldova ) Manage all imaging, deployment and product a hardware lifecycle. Procured and built multi-site cloud managed Meraki wires/ wireless network. ( 18 AP's 3 sites ) Provide Tier 2-3 support for users and issues on all systems. Escalation point for junior technicians and support teams. IT Manager TrustedSite - Mcafee Secure Product - San Francisco, CA June 2015 to January 2016 Manager of all IT aspects of operations - Users, Local Services, Accounts, User on- boarding and employee terminations in a 40 user All Mac setting. Define use of equipment lifecycle and manage updates and upgrades as needed. Act as support contact for users and support for C-level and executive users. Train and develop skills for all users in Apple / Mac care and feeding. Mac Systems Administrator Xoom - San Francisco, CA November 2014 to June 2015 Casper Admin - Build and maintain all Mac deployment images/settings for all departments ~250 users in US. Remote  Admin for all Mac's in 60 user Guatemala development center. Define use of equipment lifecycle and manage updates and upgrades as needed. Act as escalation contact for help desk team  and support for executive users. Admin for JAMF / Casper - Meraki Wireless / VPN and Sophos  AV systems. Jr. Systems Administrator PARC - Palo Alto Research Center - Palo Alto, CA October 2011 to October 2013 CONTRACT Backup  coverage for medical, leave, emergency and vacation coverage of onsite sys admins. Help Desk and systems engineer for users in research and development roles. Support of approx. 240 end  users with all hardware and technical questions. iPhone Deployment via certificate based  authentication. Deployment of 802.1x certificate based wireless system / required access for government level security contracts. Manage all machine lifecycle imaging and updating through  remote systems. Mac Genius Apple - San Francisco, CA November 2006 to August 2008 SF, CA. 11.2006 - 08.2008 Front line of Apple retail service and repair  department. Troubleshoot and diagnose hardware and software issues on all Apple hardware/  software products. Team Captain for repair and lead for customer relations and service issues;  Retail. Apple Certified Desktop Technician - Apple Certified Portable Technician Education A.S. in Graphic Design Pensacola Junior College - Pensacola, FL 1994 to 1995 Skills macOS (10+ years), Adobe (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses JAMF CCA Present Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lgkylaef-78pv-o6 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.