Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Naval Recruiting District Orange Park, FL To serve as an Information Technology (IT) Specialist to manage, plan, analyze, test, troubleshoot, operate, or perform work necessary to provide cutting edge use of hardware, software applications, operating systems, and information system security to solve problems and accomplish work processes. Work Experience Systems Administrator Naval Recruiting District - Jacksonville, FL February 2010 to Present 4070 BLVD Center Drive  Jacksonville, Florida 32207  Clearance: ANCI, Access NACI Secret Clearance, Jun 03 2022  NLC-NAC, LAC & Credit, Secret Clearance, July 06 2015    Current Experience:  Provide technical oversight and training to military and civilian personnel relating to computer operations, software applications, and automated system security.    Maintain all required documentation accountability of over 400+ computers and equipments (software and hardware) spread throughout 39 assigned stations covering 2 States (Georgia/Florida). Determine the most expedient and economical procedures to ensure continuity of operations and mission accomplishment by investigating user's requirement, defining user functions, processing action, and product utilization.    Deploy new hardware/software, laptop, desktop, network/stand alone printers/copiers, routers/Wi-Fi, Blackberry, Fax Machines. Maintain and troubleshoot software/hardware to include upgrades, releases, and patches. Optimize the functionality and performance of hardware and software systems using performance tools.    Coordinate system design, acquisition, implementation and testing on all matters related to systems operations and support.    Install, test, and implement vendor-supplied modifications to existing systems software. Independently determine the feasibility of installing modifications and schedule implementation to ensure continuity of operations.    Maintain system security by performing system administration (i.e. managing accounts, network rights and access) on networked systems. Adding, modifying and deleting Microsoft Active Directory accounts and monitor accuracy of Policy Server etc.    Manage Navy Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) COSC services and invoices through the use of tool set such as Service Request E-forms, Navy Electronic Marketplace, and Navy Enterprise Tools (NET).    Develop and maintain NRD Jacksonville system contingency plans and disaster recovery plan systems. Develop systems administration Standard Operating Procedures and provide guidance to upper management relating IT needs and requirements.    IT CERTIFICATION  CompTIA Security +  CompTIA A +  Current IAT Level 2 Chief Warrant Officer US Navy 1984 to 2009 Electronic Technician/Demolition Diver    IT Department Head Education Florida Career College - Jacksonville, FL 2009 to 2010 B.S. in Electronic/Computers Systems Technology Southern Illinois University - Carbondale, IL 2003