Director of IT Director of IT Director of IT - REVEAL Entertainment White Plains, NY Work Experience Director of IT REVEAL Entertainment 2010 to Present www.reveal42.com    I support a network of Linux, Macintosh, and Windows server machines running software applications including  Autodesk Flame, Avid Media Composer, Adobe Creative cloud.  I am responsible for configuration and support of Juniper SSG/SRX firewalls, cloud based email, Windows Active  Directory, and DNS issues.  I participated in migrating company email from an internal Exchange Server to Rackspace cloud based email.  I have helped editors with shell scripting and C programs for custom in house use.  I administer cloud based storage servers including Signiant Media Shuttle, Aspera, and FTP/SFTP on a Centos7 server.  I maintain several internal storage servers such as Avid Unity, Facilis Terrablock, and RedHat Linux based NAS units  using DELL Power Vault MD3200 and NX3100, Dot Hill RAID storage, and Synology RAIDs.  We have a 10GB network using a Mellanox switch for fiber connectivity to Linux and Macintosh computers.  I support web sites (including the www.henryandmemovie.com site) using Linux Apache and Windows IIS. Systems Administrator, CHARLEX www.charlex.com 2005 to 2010 Responsible for maintenance of several Windows 2003 Server machines  running web sites, email software, and SQL Server 2000 data base applications.  Installed and configured Autodesk burn running on several Red Hat linux servers ; also integrated several Windows servers for encoding clips using  Autodesk CLEANER XL.  Installed and updated Autodesk flame, smoke, and backdraft on both IRIX and LINUX platforms. Implemented an Apache website to record  RAID disk usage reports using PHP and Perl CGI. Maintained and modified  web sites using Microsoft IIS, ASP, and Visual Studio 2005 (C#). Systems Administrator Image Group Post, LLC 2002 to 2005 Provide support for a network of Apple OS X, Red Hat Linux, and Windows machines.  The sgi network includes machines running discreet flame, smoke, and inferno in addition to Maya 3D software.  Installed and configured a Macintosh G5 with Aja KONA-HD and Apple Xserve RAID  Software installed includes Shake, Final Cut HD, After Effects, Combustion, and Illustrator  Wrote a perl script to import Kuper motion control data into discreet inferno  Installed an Apache based webserver including PHP and Squirrelmail  Set up a web based restricted ftp site using sgi hardware. Set up a DHCP server using Red Hat Linux  Wrote a perl/MEL script to visualize network activity in 3D using ethereal  Configured two firewalls using Red Hat linux IPTables. Wrote scripts in Perl and PHP to automatically  generate web pages for client access of clips.  Configured SAMBA on sgi machines to enable file access from Windows and OS X. 3D Systems Administrator / Programmer, Post Perfect 1998 to 2002 Responsible for upgrades and installations of discreet fire and inferno software on SGI Onyx and Onyx2 hardware. Also supported Maya, Houdini, and RenderMan software on a network of Octanes and linux machines.  Also, I was responsible for user account management, backup and archiving of  completed productions, and general system backups and OS upgrades.  I have performed some hardware related tasks such as disk drive installation and graphics board replacement.  My responsibilities have included software development using C and C++,  Discreet sparks, RenderMan shaders, and the Maya API.  I have experience using Pixar's Alfred scripting language, Alias | Wavefront's  OpenMaya C++ Development Library, and Maya MEL scripting.  I developed render pipeline software that allows rendering in Maya, Houdini, or RenderMan and compositing using Composer or Houdini with distributed  job control using Pixar's Alfred.  I developed stand alone utilities for annotating and sending images to an Abekas A66 DDR  using non-blocking IO.  I have also had some experience porting SGI/Irix C and C++ to Intel Red Hat  Linux GNU C++. Programmer National Video Center 1994 to 1998 telezign    Responsibilities include the development of proprietary software for use in 3D animation productions. Developed  software in C++/C using Alias|Wavefront PowerAnimator OpenModel and OpenRender API.  Some example plugins include: a convertor to read Roberts Motion Control format into animation  curves, and a particle system flowline generator (based on reading particle data files).  Developed image processing utilities which are in daily use in postprocessing of rendered images.  Developed Sparks using the Discreet Logic Flame, Flint, and Inferno platforms.  Using C++, Motif, Xt, and OpenGL developed a compositor  which runs on the SGI workstation. The compositor features: a text  file interpreter for batch mode execution, support for reading image files in Alias, SGI, or Softimage format. IBM T.J. Watson Research Center June 1993 to December 1993 Consulting Position, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center  Worked on software testing of the Data Explorer Scientific Visualization package. Wrote csh  scripts to test software. Senior Associate Programmer IBM T.J. Watson Research Center May 1989 to November 1992 Programmer for a Virtual Reality research group specializing in advanced  user environments (data gloves, three dimensional input (and output) devices), and in data visualization.  Implemented a volume renderer for visualization of three dimensional data sets.  The program has been used to render the output of various simulation programs  including charge density data and fluid flow data. Programmer Courant Institute Robotics Lab - New York, NY March 1986 to May 1989 Provided software support to a Computer Vision research group. Wrote  software in C for use in multi-resolution Gaussian pyramid applications.  Wrote a package of image processing utilities as a set of Unix filters, including floating point convolution programs for separable and non-separable  kernels, a connected components algorithm, border following algorithm, and an image display program using Sun Microsystems SunView window system.  Developed documentation using Unix text formatting tools. Programmer Pratt Institute - Brooklyn, NY April 1983 to March 1986 Wrote an interactive paint program using a Raster Technologies 24 bit/pixel  frame buffer and a tablet. Implemented several basic interactive graphics subroutines including rubber band line  drawing and curve fitting using  cubic splines. Developed documentation for instructional use. Education M.S. degree in Computer Science New York University May 1991 B.A. degree New York University May 1980 Skills Linux, Red hat, Javascript, Opengl, Ui, Autodesk, Mac, Mac os Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows 2012, 2008 Server, Windows 2008 Storage Server, Red Hat Linux, Centos, Mac OS/X.  UI software: JavaScript, OpenGL, tcl/tk.  Autodesk flame sparks (linux), RenderMan Shading Language, MEL