Information Technology Field Technician Information Technology Field Technician Information Technology Field Technician - Getronics University Park, IL Work Experience Information Technology Field Technician Getronics June 2019 to Present Monsanto/Bayer Win 10 Conversion Project-Lead  • Perform Imaging /staging applications per systems, participated in system uploads.  • Maintains incidents/problem management database, and maintains metrics for on-going process improvement.  • Set up new employee workstations. Maintain printers, fax machines and related machines.  • Manage 3 to 7 people at a time depending on site.  • Provide timely reporting, progress updates, and escalate any technical issues that arise during service delivery to the Project Management team.  • Set up new configurations of equipment. Install and configure software applications.  • Troubleshoot and repair software applications and OS related problems.  • Clean computer hardware according to manufacturers' specifications.  • Monitor computer hardware performance and diagnosing problems. Independent IT Contractor January 2017 to Present • Responsible for planning, organizing, directing and evaluating the activities and performance of subordinate IT Specialist and support in IT  • IT Operations facilities functions.  • Direct staff who monitor critical services on networks and applications for performances and availability; receive and record incidents and service request  • Perform information filtering/correction and Root Cause Analysis, disseminates situational awareness information such as impact or status of corrective actions  • Provides advice and recommendations on a wide range of IT information, Assurance and Security service deliver issues  • Customer Service Help Desk Support Tier I & II  • Served as Shift Lead Help Desk technician, supervising 2-3 personnel  • Served as Liaison between the customers and the help desk to ensure customers satisfaction, giving a briefing on the policies and procedures, proper use of the company's networks  • Installed, configured and troubleshot systems software and hardware connectivity and functionality issues proficient on the new protocol for properly using PKI/two-person integrity of CAC enabled digital senders and copy machines  • Managing and maintained accountability of contracted network patch panels, resolving any communications trouble tickets to ensure no anomalies occurred.  • Maintained Printer support and configuration and drive mapping  • Receives software/hardware testing and implementation tasking's from the program management office analyzes and review the complexity, time and cost, supplies and personnel need to complete tasks. Deployment Technician Lead, Peak Systems July 2018 to June 2019 WPP Project  • Setup PC + MAC builds, management of deployment task deliverables floor walker support (Next-Day Executive Support) supported services include desktop support for both windows and MAC and Office 365.  • Computer imaging, data migration and Install and configure software applications.  • Manage Dell tasks resources associated with the project  • Coordinate activities with the customer  • Develop the project plan  • Ensure customer performs its responsibilities as defined in the SOW  • Manage the escalation issues between the Dell and the customer  • Coordinating the delivery of the product to the customer  • Prepare the site and customer for the installation  • Manage the execution of the deployment  • Close out the project  • Develops and implements various training and instruction programs for users on the use of operating systems, networking, applications and databases.  • Works directly with project managers to manage onsite issues, escalations, special request, customer and IT engagement. Field Technician, Netview CVS March 2017 to June 2019 Project - Technician  • Computer imaging, data migration, and printer support with end user support.  • Experience with Windows migrations in large enterprise, including user data preservation.  • Working with personal computer hardware, software, systems, local area networks and terminology.    US Bank Project- Lead Technician  • Uninstalling old computers and installing new computers. Also staging applications per systems with next day support.  • Communicate expectations, assignments and responsibilities clearly and professionally.  • Manage the build, maintenance and support base image for workstations including OS, drivers and software.  • Manage 3 to 7 people at a time depending on site size for the day.  • Responsible to Lead and efficiently manage Build Deployment technicians to ensure proper buildout of required machines.  • Provide objective performance feedback on individual team members. Desktop Support Technician Iron systems Inc February 2018 to May 2018 Abbott Project  • Building images and data transfer with end user support.  • Support for most aspect of IT equipment such as computer hardware, software, networking, and telephony. The person in this position will perform general technical support functions, including physical installation, assembly, configuration and maintenance of the business computers, servers, and networks and printers.  • Deployment and management of PCs, laptops, and server hardware and software.  • Deployment and management of local and network attached peripherals.  • Installs/Moves/Adds/Changes/re-installs and updates.  • Supports computer users with installation of basic hardware/software and networking components to meet personal computer needs. IT Administrator November 2017 to February 2018 Dakota Integrated Systems  • Manages multiple servers and workstations, ensuring proper integration of these components with existing company computer systems.  • Troubleshoots networks, systems, and applications to identify and correct malfunctions and other operational problems.  • Administers system security policy, to include firewalls, host and client access, file permissions, and user accounts.  • Installs and debugs new and/or upgraded software on server and client platforms, ensuring compliance with the current site licenses; designs, programs, and manages websites and associated pages.  • Researches, evaluates, installs, configures, and troubleshoots all hardware, peripherals, and equipment related to company network infrastructure.  • Time keep and day to night logging on how many errors we had that day on the floor and in SQL.  • Developing test plans, requirements traceability matrix and test reports  • Disseminate and explain all needed information to Co-workers.  • Support production in reducing / eliminating equipment and tooling downtime or scrap utilizing good analytical methodologies.  • Maintain and enhance production broadcast systems, error-proofing systems, printers and customer interface / communication (hardware & software).  • Maintain backup hardware and software for production based broadcast systems, error-proofing systems, printers and customer interface / communication (spare parts).  • Support departmental projects, VA/VE and/or Six Sigma activities.  • Develop and maintain production / broadcast system instructions and /or disaster recovery records (hardware & software). Education High school or equivalent Skills Active Directory (Less than 1 year), MAC (Less than 1 year), networking (1 year), printers (Less than 1 year), security (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/giovanni-crawford-59a08384 Additional Information SKILLS  • Proficient in Microsoft Office, Lotus Notes, VMware, McAfee  • Ability to analyze data logically and exercise sound judgment  • Ability to research and test new software packages  • Experience with Microsoft SCCM/SMS  • Experience with Windows and Mac operating systems.  • Knowledge of Share Point portals  • Knowledge of network communication concepts and principles  • Knowledge in Cloud Development Security Controls  • Knowledge of Information systems and "Best Practices".  • Ability to perform hardware repair/replacement for laptops and desktops via platforms or access point connections.  • Experience working with personal computer hardware, software, systems, local area networks and terminology.  • High level in organizational and problem-solving skills.  • Ability to operate computer peripherals including monitors, printers and scanners.  • Ability to supports computer users with installation of basic hardware/software and networking components to meet personal computer needs.  • Ability to interface/communicate with clients.  • Ability to Image, Stage, and PC refresh schedules.  • Experience with Active Directory Group policies/ permissions/ add various levels of users.  • Experience with troubleshooting Windows and OSX, desktops, and printers/ print servers.  • Experience reviewing requirements and developing test cases to validate the requirements.  • Experience in analyzing, identifying, prioritizing, and managing software defects, and effectively.  • Experience with working with developers in migrating, up-grading trouble shooting, verifying, validating and closing defects.