Associate Associate Lead Technician - Booz Allen Hamilton, Inc Ruther Glen, VA The last five years have been spent designing, developing and integrating VMware, utilizing both virtualization and VM apps along with Citrix dashboard development was learned. Previously, I spent ten years of my career performing system integration and software development for server 2003, server 2008, server 2012, and server 2016. Prior to that, I supported commercial consulting tasks for which I supported the customer with UNIX, LINUX systems, Windows based platforms, and Windows software systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Booz Allen Hamilton, Inc - McLean, VA August 2017 to Present * Requirements gathering, analysis and documentation for the 2012, and 2016 systems, web meetings. (WebEx, MS Office, Lotus Notes, Remedy)  * Worked on Automating tasks using PowerShell, and Bash.  * Developed and implemented a plan to upgrade from a server 2012 domain to a server 2016 domain  * Build, Scanned, and remedied server 2012, and 2016 on a VMware and hyper v environment.  * Perform quality assurance testing of software, and OS to meet AI requirements of STIG's.  * Maintaining software applications, operating systems and regular maintenance.  * Maintained and monitored VMware 6.5, and ESXI  * Built Scripts to manage Service accounts, which also put out a report.  * Responding to inquiries from staff, administrators, service providers, site personnel and outside vendors etc. to provide technical assistance and support  * Developed and implemented GPO's  * Any other duties as assigned by management  * Built and Architect Hyper-V infrastructure with both 2012 and 2016  * Delivered virtual desktops with differencing disk so the customer would have a new Virtual machine (VM) every time they logged in and this saved resources.  * Developed share drives  * Configured High Availability (HA)  * Created a log server to capture events that would occur on the network  * Scanned the environment and patched as needed  * Managed Several Linux servers    Major Accomplishments:  • Received a letter of recommendation for getting my contract back on track and ahead of schedule. Joint Staff - Pentagon, Sr SME Systems Engineer ASAP/Leidos September 2016 to July 2017 Pentagon  • Monitor and install various virtual machines in VMware from Oracle, Windows workstations, Windows Servers, to SCCM and SCOM v 5.1  • Rebuilt and Architected the 5.1 environment  • Rebuilt the whole VMware infrastructure from the ground up  • Monitored the Network for data bottlenecks and worked steps to remedy the problems  • Managed, configured and repaired storage on ESXI and HP Blade system  • Reclaimed 27 TB of data on failed storage environment  • Made recommendations for storage, and server maintenance and upgrades  • Responding to inquiries from Joint Staff, administrators, service providers, site personnel and outside vendors and etc. to provide technical assistance and support  • Rebuilt the vCenter Server  • Configured Storage vMotion on a network where it has never existed  • Rebuilt and configured SQL Server to include writing custom scripts, and configured SCCM and SCOM servers  • Configured trust relationship between two domains  • Monitored, updated, and ran custom scripts to the network using various tools to include Netdiag, and Tanium  • Maintaining software applications, operating systems and regular maintenance  • Installed and configured multiple switches on Cisco  • Developed a plan to migrate VMware 5.1 to 5.5  • Managed a team of 21 Engineers to accomplish Tasks required by the customer  • Managed and configured several Linux and UNIX servers  • Created Daily Reports of network health and work tasking's to present to the Customer  • Any other duties as assigned by management. Managed when people went on vacation so we always had coverage  • Configured and maintained Nautilus  • Wrote, Developed, and maintained all the scripts for folder redirection, and replication  • Migrated Enterprise tenants from windows 7(physical machine and VDI) to windows 10(VDI) with allowing the customers to keep all their saved documents on their machines. This was accomplished by utilizing folder redirection.  • Worked with exec support to make sure VIP's issues were taken care of. As well as making their migration go smoothly.  • Worked closely with program managers to accomplish tasks set out by the customer.  * Mentored people I worked with to make them better Engineers and give them the tools to be more confident in their jobs Sr Systems Engineer/ Administrator General Dynamics April 2015 to September 2016 • Complete configuration, installation and support of equipment in a Microsoft Windows environment to the specifications of client proposals  • Troubleshoot and resolve computer and telephony related issues when contacted by clients by providing both on-site and remote support  • Maintaining software applications, operating systems and regular maintenance.  • Managing assigned projects and program components to deliver services in accordance with established objectives.  • Responding to inquiries from staff, administrators, service providers, site personnel and outside vendors and etc. to provide technical assistance and support  • Complete incident logs in Remedy within 48 hours of completing tasks to ensure accurate and timely time tracking, project management and billing of customers  • Configured and maintained a virtual environment  • Monitor and install various virtual machines in VMware from Oracle, Windows workstations, Windows Servers, to SCCM and SCOM both v 5.0 and v 5.5  • Installed and configured multiple switches both Brocade and Cisco  • Configured LEAP Server  • Created Daily Reports of network health and work tasking's  • Spearheaded the network upgrade from windows 2003 to 2008r2, and  • worked on developing a plan with supporting data/examples for upgrading from 2008r2 to 2012r2 (created a whole domain in Test to prove theories)  • Upgraded ESXI and VMware from 4.0 to 5.5  • Any other duties as assigned by management Microsoft Certified Sr Network/ Systems Administrator Lockheed Martin September 2013 to April 2015 • Supervising the administration of systems and servers related network to ensure availability of services to authorized users.  • Solution oriented, highly analytical, and resourceful candidate, with extensive experience in network administration, and support. Proven ability to provide creative and effective server and networking strategies through the application of highly developed problem-solving skills.  • Expert administration and troubleshooting skills for all Microsoft operating systems and Windows Server products.  • Team player with reputation for providing excellent user service; tenacity to work with demanding clientele. Able to travel and maintain a flexible work schedule.  • Deliver virtual or hosted desktops and applications through a single platform with VMware Horizon 6  • Monitor and install various virtual machines in VMware  • Network Development: Skilled in managing local and wide area network connectivity through maintenance and troubleshooting of routers, switches, hubs, network cards, and virtual networking.  • Seven years of workstation and server experience within a LAN environment through proactive LAN administration roles.  • System architecture design (LAN and WAN) experience. Strong knowledge of implementing and utilizing remote network management and monitoring tools (LAN Desk, WebEx, and Microsoft RDP/UDP).  • Planning and Maintaining a Microsoft Windows Server 2003 - to a - Microsoft Windows Server 2012r2 Network Infrastructure Microsoft Certified Sr Systems Administrator US Army May 2004 to August 2013 • Proven ability to provide creative and effective server and networking strategies through the application of highly developed problem-solving skills. Expert administration and troubleshooting skills for all Microsoft operating systems and Windows Server products.  • Exceptional technical education; consistently keeping current with emerging network technologies. Team player with reputation for providing excellent user service; tenacity to work with demanding clientele. Able to travel and maintain a flexible work schedule.  • Small Business Specialist: Six years of experience in supporting the technical needs of businesses with emphasis on Security and OS configuration, DNS, Group Policy, hardware support, storage, and raid methodologies. Implementing changes as needed to maintain a secure and efficient network. Analyze, design, develop, recommend, and present data network solutions  • Successfully completed Microsoft technical exam, small business sales, and marketing skills assessment. Strong knowledge of the Small Business Server Suite.  • Established a secure, central location for customer / technical documentation that is readily available, and accessible to all technical staff members; used Microsoft SharePoint portal server.  • Recommended and implemented customer questionnaire to track satisfaction rates for the services and products provided.  • Build and maintain PCs and the functionality / security of virtual private networks (VPNs) both physical and virtual.  • Employ various tools such as Microsoft MBSA (Microsoft Baseline System Analyzer) to assess security requirements and provide full network migration solutions. Recommended and implemented customer questionnaire to track satisfaction rates for the services and products provided.  • Managed Cisco Server and Switches handling over 170,000 people    Major Accomplishments:  Received a Group Achievement Award from General Odierno in June 2010 and JCOM (Joint Service Commendation Medal) in December 2011. Education MS Computer Science in Computer Science Grand Canyon University 2018 BS in Information Technology University of Hertfordshire May 2013 MCSA University of Ohio - Dayton, OH Skills Vmware, Assurance testing, Quality assurance testing, Linux, Unix, Data analysis, Database, Database design, Software engineering, Software development, System development, Systems integration, Quality assurance, Business intelligence, Bi, Integration Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Staff sergeant Additional Information COMPETENCIES  • Software/ System Development (15 yrs) • Systems Integration (10 yrs)  • Database Design and Development (6 yrs) • Quality Assurance Testing (15 yrs)  • Software Engineering (5 yrs) • Data Analysis (10 yrs)  • Business Intelligence (BI) Tools (5 yrs) • Linux OS deployments (10 yrs)  • Portal Development (7 yrs)  • VMware (10 yrs)    • Web Software Development (5 yr)    Operating Systems: UNIX (17 yrs), Linux (15 yrs), Windows (20yrs)