Apple Senior Specialist Apple Senior Specialist APPLE SENIOR SPECIALIST - Teleperformance Coral Springs, FL Obtain a position at a thriving business as an IT Specialist to use strengths in evaluating software and overseeing computer system performance.. A highly organized individual with 5+ years of experience in installing new software and diagnosing performance issues seeking a position in a positive environment as an IT Specialist. Work Experience Apple Senior Specialist Teleperformance - North Lauderdale, FL July 2013 to Present Provide excellent customer service  Follow up to customer inquiries  Troubleshoot equipment and system problems  Enters data from customers  Exercise retention efforts  Demonstrate advanced product knowledge  Open and manage trouble ticket system for  User issues, Voice Network, Data Network,  Video Network, iOS and iMAC issues. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR ADT Security Services - Boca Raton, FL January 2010 to June 2013 Monitor and manage computer network systems.  Install and configure network systems and components.  Provide remote and local desktop support.  Create, configure and manage user accounts.  Configure and administer routers, and switches.  Troubleshoot and repair LAN and WAN network system.  Perform I.T. services to home and business customers.  Taking inbound calls from apple and Dell clients. TECH SUPPORT Tyco fire and security - Boca Raton, FL May 2008 to January 2010 Repair computer systems and other peripheral equipment.  Troubleshoot, diagnose, and resolve problems.  Computer hardware installation support  Phone support configuration, good communication skills.  Provide desktop software configuration support. Education Associate in Network Administration Keiser University 2014 to Present High School Diploma Coral Springs High School 2006 Additional Information Meticulous worker; attentive to quality and detail, reduce online support time through targeted assistance and increase team efficiency. Expert knowledge of computer software packages. Proficient troubleshooter. Technical knowledge of hardware, software, database systems, and motivated to learn technical concepts.