Applications Analyst Senior Applications Analyst Senior Applications Analyst Senior Crowley, TX Accomplished IT professional with 28+ years of IT experience. Effective at leading team members to accomplish daily  goals to achieve customer satisfaction. Detail oriented and efficient with strengths in problem solving, documentation,  and implementing process improvements. Excellent in managing relationships with internal and external customers. Work Experience Applications Analyst Senior Lockheed Martin April 2016 to July 2019 Started Agile Scrum Master training to support the Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) portfolio to provide  streamlining of deployments for the PLM Infrastructure team.  • Member of Scrum Team supporting the Siemens TeamCenter application.  • Supported the F-35 Aero IT Product Data Manager (PDM) project, engaged in the maintenance and operation  of the Siemens TeamCenter Enterprise software for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics.  • Provided production support activities to keep PDM operational on a daily basis to support the F-35 Program, which includes User Account Setup and Maintenance, Rules Support, Workflow Support, Export Authorizing  Document Creation and Infrastructure Support.  • Contributed to the resolution of outages in order to recover PDM system functionality to normal operations, contribute to PDM Software Release deployment planning or the adaptation/modification of current Lockheed  Martin Aeronautics processes to Siemens TeamCenter Enterprise. Lockheed Martin - Fort Worth, TX November 2002 to July 2019 Data Security Administrator Senior Lockheed Martin August 2006 to April 2016 Earned promotion following superior performance and demonstrated ability to quickly learn and master  complex concepts.  • Lead a team of 4 in the support of the Online Account Request System (OARS) using SUN Identity Manager  product to ensure that IT security policies, best practices and processes are met throughout the resource  account request workflows, and also trained, coached, and mentored team members.  • Designed request forms to capture requirements and specification to design and maintain resource account  workflows and documented and maintained application procedures and processes.  • Maintained configuration files in acceptance environment, setup customer acceptance testing, and initiate  production move of new workflows/updates upon customer approval.  • Supported and maintained 1000+ resource account workflows through creation, modification/updates and created reports for audit purposes.  • Provided application support for internal/external customers with questions, updates, assistance using the request system, providing status on requests, and escalating requests.  • Provided prompt resolution and troubleshooting to customers via the Remedy/ITSM queues.  • Supported the external customers with Exostar and two-factor authentication to obtain an OARS account to request access to LM Aeronautics applications. Computer Systems Analyst February 2002 to August 2006 Supported the Metaphase JSF Product Data Management (PDM) software application, which included  development and customizations, creating test plans, user acceptance and production testing, creating lifecycles and message access rules.  • Created domestic and foreign suppliers accounts, assisted with connectivity problems and created hosts,  updated and modified accounts.  • Worked the PDM help desk assisting users with lifecycles, connectivity problems, resetting passwords and other  PDM issues.  925 Loftin Street, Crowley, Texas 76036 817.229.7392 linda.hamilton6886@gmail.com www.linkedin.com/in/linda-hamilton-96952140    • Developed and maintained test scenarios and scripts for core functionality; defined test cases; developed and assembled test data to support the execution of test cases and scenarios within Mercury Quality Center.  • Executed core integration and regression tests; coordinates project test plans for upgrades, maintained project  test plans and test cases, scenarios, and data under configuration management. Systems Integration Analyst Computer Sciences Corporation - Fort Worth, TX November 1991 to November 2002 Supported the Metaphase JSF Product Data Management (PDM) software application, which included  development and customizations, creating test plans, user acceptance and production testing, creating lifecycles and message access rules.  • Created domestic and foreign suppliers accounts, assisted with connectivity problems and created hosts,  updated and modified accounts.  • Worked the PDM help desk assisting users with lifecycles, connectivity problems, resetting passwords and other  PDM issues.  • Perform evaluations, tests and configurations on mainframe printers; desktop and floor models.  • Tier 3 supports for all mainframe distributed printers.  • Designed electronic forms for large Xerox printers.  • Troubleshoot and coordinate resolutions of software problems with vendors. Systems Analyst General Dynamics - Fort Worth, TX April 1990 to November 1991 • Perform evaluations, tests and configurations on mainframe printers; desktop and floor models.  • Tier 3 supports for all mainframe distributed printers.  • Designed electronic forms for large Xerox printers.  • Troubleshoot and coordinate resolutions of software problems with vendors. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems Louisiana Tech University, College of Business - Ruston, LA September 1986 to November 1989 Skills Product lifecycle, Product lifecycle management, Remedy, Security, Configuration management, Documentation Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/linda-hamilton-96952140 Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  • Identity and Access Management • Product Lifecycle Management Support  • Process and Policy Documentation • Configuration Management Support  • Agile Methodologies • Greenbelt Certification  • Remedy/ITSM/Service Central • Department of Defense Secret Security Clearance