Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Administrator - VISION EASE Coon Rapids, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer VISION EASE - Ramsey, MN 2008 to Present Responsible for support and directing the IT vision, policies, and standards globally to our facilities in US, Indonesia, Thailand, Korea, China and the UK.  ? Planned and moved our Thailand facility running Gmail and Indonesia running on premise email server to Office 365.  ? Implemented a modern, highly redundant, backup and disaster recovery solution that fit the needs of a 24x7x365 global manufacturing company.  ? Virtualized 98% of server environment for VISION EASE globally reducing cost,  complexity and simplifying ease of management while also making IT more agile to respond to the needs of the business.  ? Migrated from all servers running in a DAS configuration to a dual controller, highly  available, fiber channel SAN architecture with SSD tiering.  ? Upgraded domain from 2003 to 2008 R2 for VISION EASE Corporate across 3 sites.  ? Replaced unstable HP Procurve Wifi infrastructure with Ruckus APs and dual  controllers.  ? Managed many IT projects related specifically to my areas of expertise.  ? Evaluated new technologies to test, purchase and implement within the company.  ? Key member of 3 man team involved in getting Unified Messaging installed and configured along with replacing aging phone system  ? Managed file, email, app, and AD permissions across the company  ? Moved to a redundant end user VPN devices to empower our remote workers and simplify access for outside contractors.  ? Built and managed locked down RDS Hosts that ran our ERP application for our entire  company along with Remote App servers that hosted business critical lab software. Systems Administrator Robert Half Technology - Ramsey, MN September 2007 to March 2008 Redesigned backup and replication solution for our 3 sites from the ground up to support the businesses RTO and retention requirements. Backups utilized data  deduplication a tape library for offsite storage, and replication from our remote offices  back to corporate headquarters for backup.  ? Moved VISION EASE from manual client Windows installs to a fully automated  Microsoft RIS imaging solution saving countless hours and helping enforce  standardization across the environment..  ? Managed Backups, AD, Servers, Exchange Consultant for ShopNBC US Internet - Eden Prairie, MN 2005 to 2007 Systems Administrator / Desktop Support Lead  ? Responsible for Administration and support of Windows 2000/2003 Server and the  Exchange 2000 server.  ? Active Directory (creating and modifying accounts, privileges, mailboxes, login batch  files, etc.)  ? Enterprise backup solutions involving Windows Tivoli Storage Manager and Veritas  Backup Exec.  ? Experience with managing, upgrading and performing maintenance on 50+ Wintel  servers and VMWare software test environments.  ? Project Manager for the Windows DST (Daylight Savings Time) switch. Upgraded over 1100 machines and 100 servers. Also was responsible for upgrades to our Exchange  environment in 3 separate locations.  ? Developed a new anti-virus infrastructure with McAfee Epolicy Orchestrator.  ? Designed and implemented a WSUS server to handle Microsoft OS, Office, and  Exchange patching for 3 separate locations.  ? Dramatically decreased PC deployment times by implementing a RIS Server and creating specific images for each department. Computer Technician Computer Renaissance - Maplewood, MN 2003 to 2005 Education Saint Paul Technical College Skills System Administration (10+ years), Vmware (9 years), Server (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Exchange Server (10+ years), Disaster Recovery (10+ years), Project Management (8 years), Networking (10+ years), SAAS (8 years), Windows (10+ years), SAN (10+ years), Backups (10+ years), Scripting (10+ years), Deployment (10+ years) Additional Information Skills Summary  ? Virtualization - VMware ESX 3.5, 4.0, VMware ESXi 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, VMware GSX, Hyper-V,  Microsoft RemoteApp, Microsoft Remote Desktop Session Hosts, VMware Workstation,  Parallels  ? Email - Exchange Online, Exchange 5.5, 2000, 2007, 2010, Gmail for Google Apps for Work,  Trustwave Secure Email Gateway, Mailmax Mail Guardian  ? Storage - Dell Compellent, IBM Storwize, EMC Data Domain, DAS arrays  ? Backup/Replication/DR - VEEAM, Veritas (Symantec) Backup Exec & CPS, IBM Tivoli,  CrashPlan  ? Cloud Services (SAAS) - Office 365 Suite, G Suite (Google Apps for Work), Box, Podio,  GoToMeeting, mHelpDesk, Cylance, Teamviewer, Okta, Pingdom, Fax2Mail, Docusign,  LastPass  ? Scripting - Powershell, VBScript, Batch (light Visual Basic skills)  ? Operating Systems - Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2003 R2, 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2012 R2,  2016, Windows XP to Windows 10, minor experience with various Linux distros.  ? Networking - DHCP, DNS, Radius, Dell Sonicwall, HP Procurve, vSwitches, Ruckus, OpenMesh  ? Servers - Dell Poweredge, HP Proliant, IBM System X  ? Deployment, Patching & Management - WSUS, RIS, GFI Languard, Solarwinds Patch  Manager  ? Misc. - Active Directory, Group Policy, Symantec Endpoint Protection, Cylance