Jr. Systems Administrator Jr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Jr. Systems Administrator - Jaggaer Wendell, NC Work Experience Jr. Systems Administrator Jaggaer - Morrisville, NC March 2017 to Present Provide first and second line response for users requiring assistance with information technology issues and problems. This includes both phone support and field support. Resolve technical support issues related to client-server systems. Ability to act as a second tier/escalation support role. Provision (Install, configure, and support) workstations including imaging laptops, desktops, tablets and network printers following build processes. (Windows 7 & 10). Managing workstations enterprise wide using remote workstation management tools. Perform administrative tasks on supported end user applications and tools. Perform user account administration (new accounts, updates, terminations) according to defined procedures. Performs technical tasks related to the installation and maintenance of systems' software products. Provide 2nd level support on corporate end user applications including O365, remote access systems, telephone systems, etc. Resolve routine LAN problems and escalate non-routine problems. Computer Technician Installer eBrIT - Goldsboro, NC February 2017 to March 2017 I provided technical support for 200+ users and ensured proper maintenance of workstations, printers, and peripherals  I also deployed new workstations and printers, installing operating systems, applications, and drivers, and configuring network properties and hardware. Systems Administrator Raleigh, NC August 2016 to October 2016 My initial hiring role was Help Desk Support Technician. Within two weeks I was promoted to Systems Administrator. This meant that, in addition to performing scheduled system backups and tests, I also performed as lead in analyzing and troubleshooting both hardware/software telecommunications issues, as well as configuring and deploying production servers and a variety of applications. Other responsibilities included creation and maintenance of updates OS images and review of error documentation to determine resolve of end-user needs, whether it be additional documentation or training. Manager/Sargent U.S. Department of Defense January 2002 to October 2013 U.S Marine Corps (U.S. Department of Defense)  While managing food-service operations, I supervised more than 80 military and civilian personnel for four major military installations, while implementing inventory, controls and standards. Responsibilities also included training delivery, performance management and career planning. Interaction with vendors initially required proficient use of MS Word for contracts distribution and management and MS Excel for inventory tracking, reporting and graphs. However, beginning 2010 with the organizations migration to Oracle 11i (GCSS-MC) I learned to use Oracle to perform all inventory and financial activities, including purchasing and accounts payables. Other roles included interacting with civilian sales and administrative personnel, building custom-ordered military gear boxes, ordering stock and distributing inventory using a military proprietary supply system. Skills Active directory, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Oracle, Oracle 11i, Imaging, Html, Visual basic, Networking, Flash, Ms office, Ethernet, Excel, Ms excel, Lan, Photoshop, Windows 7, Help desk, Inventory, Telecommunications Additional Information KEY SKILLS    * Effective time and project management, problem solving, prioritization and delegation  * Supervisory skills that include mentoring, talent development and performance tracking  * Supply management skills, including inventory, reporting and cost control and regulatory compliance, using IT systems such as Oracle 11i, as well as MS Excel spreadsheets  * Imaging, installing, maintaining and managing desktop/client and server operating systems  * Troubleshooting using Windows 7/10, Active Directory, basic networking and configuring routers and switches  * OSI Model, TCP/IP, Ethernet, LAN, WAN, Internetworking and basic telecommunications technologies  * Proprietary Software and Help Desk Ticketing Systems  * Adobe Photoshop/Flash, MS Office Suite, HTML, Visual Basic, Windows Server2003