Microsoft Exchange Administrator Microsoft Exchange <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Microsoft Exchange Administrator NASHVILLE • Seasoned systems administrator adept at helping users efficiently and comprehensively resolve technical issues  • Proven success in a professional environment, optimizing comprehensive solutions for technical problems  • Self-directed team member with effective training experience and exceptional communication, organizational and interpersonal skills Work Experience Microsoft Exchange Administrator Caterpillar Financial Services November 2017 to June 2019 Administrator duties consist of the creation of new user mailbox's, shared mailbox's and distribution list. Giving and taking permission from users. The termination of users. Running Power Shell scripts to assist with the high volume of request. Troubleshoot shooting profile issues and training the help center on basic troubleshooting for Outlook. Documentation of procedures and guides to assist team members. Helping with the on-premise email migration to Office 365. Creating documentation on process and procedures related to email related items. Working with Service Now to manage high volume of tickets. Technical Project Coordinator Black Box Networking June 2016 to October 2017 • Coordinate with on-site technicians to verify MDF, IDF and all access points are ready for install at all Home Depots in Canada and the US.  • Working in Smart Sheet spreadsheet coordinating with technicians on the installation of new access points and switches. Coordinate with install technicians their Virtual Controller and all switches and access points are up and running and to coordinate any reaming technical issues with the correct support personal.  • Coordinate with day one technicians the deliverable requirements for the remaining part of the network refresh.  • Track technicians work with Smart Sheet. Used in place of ticketing system.  • Document work flow for Technical Project Coordinators  • Update IOS on Aruba switches via command line.  • Coordinate with on-site technicians the deliverable requirements for the server survey, install of new servers and decommission of old servers. Systems Administrator Uniguest September 2015 to May 2016 • Active Directory Administrator- tasks include working in multiple domains, managing users, groups, organizational units and other active directory objects.  • Setting up end users with equipment and managing inventory.  • Transitioning the company to a new facility.  • Working with the Citrix team to troubleshoot the new Citrix platform  • Installation of Cisco AP units.  • Remedy Ticketing system to track and trouble shoot issues.  • Some Power Shell scripting  • Office 365 administrator Microsoft Exchange Administrator  • Creating documentation for support and end users on the imaging procedures.  • Outlook Administrator  • Skype for Business administrator  • Clarity Connect Administrator  • Currently enrolled at Nashville State Community College taking Cisco classes - working towards my CCENT and CCNA Systems Administrator digiChart Inc April 2015 to September 2015 • Windows Exchange Administrator  • Creation of mailbox and mail contact for users. Managing exchange configuration data.  • Active Directory Administrator  • Tasks include working in multiple domains, managing users, groups, organizational units and other active directory objects  • Level 3 support of the digiChart application  • Assist level 2 support with tickets using Sales Force  • Speak with doctors and office managers concerning software, hardware and networking issues  • Communicate with vendors i.e. ISP or other vendors related to troubleshooting technical issues with practices  • Documentation of issues and their resolutions.  • Creating documentation for support and end users on the Cisco Call Manager application.    • Cisco Call Manager Administrator  • Tasks include working in the Cisco Unified CCX Administration, Cisco CM Console IM and Presence and voice mail  • Kaspersky Anti-Virus Administrator  ? Working in the Kaspersky Security Center to manage computers users and security issues Senior Systems Analyst LifePoint Health August 2013 to April 2015 • Windows XP to Windows 7 migration.  • Image machines using SCCM.  • Desktop Support - Help users with technical issues, hardware and software via ticketing system.  • User machine set up and configuration including VPN access.  • Active Directory administrator.  • Microsoft Exchange administrator.  • Software deployment and management.  • Trouble shooting and documentation of solutions for the end user and technical teams.  • Avaya VOIP deployment.  • Call Manager administrator.  • Video conferencing administrator.  • WebEx and InterCall administration and support. Senior Systems Analyst Vanguard Health Systems February 2013 to August 2013 • Cisco/Tandberg TelePresence Video Conference Administrator.  • Scheduling, setting up and modifying video conferences for users and executives.  • Editing conferences in progress using the Tandberg Management System.  • Configuring the Cisco video conferencing server and working in the command line to edit the server.  • Configuring IP and other settings.  • Active Directory Administrator.  • Tasks include working in multiple domains and creating and modifying users, groups, computers and distribution list.  • Application Implementation Administrator.  • Tasks include supporting users' request for applications using the foot prints ticketing system and configuring appropriate access.  • Applications include, but are not limited to, mass90, Hyperion, Contraxx, Avaga, MEDITECH, Starr, FAS, SharePoint, VFA, Midas, MS4, Latric SQL Server and Ceridian.  • Use of Remote Desktop for the implementation of applications to remote users using Bomgar and VPN access.  • Requesting, configuring and administering access to Web-Ex and InterCall accounts for users.  • Hardware Implementation.  • Tasks include the daily configuration, replacement and updating of the software of IP based phones for users.  • Machine builds including the documentation of the build process so that every person on the team can build a machine from an image.  • Mobile device documentation and configuration for corporate email consisting of troubleshooting iPhone, Android and Blackberry devices  • Replacing personal computers and UPS batteries  • Configuring Network Management Cards for APC UPS  • Printer copier and fax installation and configuration management using Windows Server  • Data Center back up - Changing the backup tapes in the data center  • Microsoft Exchange and Outlook Administrator  • Creating mailboxes, contacts, users and distribution list for corporate email  • Managing profiles and troubleshooting issues which consist of calendar and other mail problems Systems Administrator U.S. District Court Middle District of Tennessee 2007 to 2013 • Hardware tasks include trouble shooting computer problems and evaluating the warranty of inoperable computers, hard disc drives and automation equipment  • Additional tasks include the installation of new computer and laptops for users, including ghosting and software installation.  • Data and hard drive destruction with the use of a degasser and hard disc drive compactor.  • Help desk tasks including software and hardware configurations, user support for Microsoft Windows XP/Vista/7, Microsoft Office, Word Perfect, Adobe Acrobat and Jury Management System software.  • Ticket system tasks include the timely documentation of technical problems and resolutions for users.  • Audio and video tasks include trouble shooting court room audio and video issues and setting up digital white boards and equipment.  • Case Management /Electronic Case Filing help desk tasks include trouble shooting PC and Mac issues for attorneys when they file electronically, including internet browser and hardware issues.  • Database tasks include running commands for the Case Management/Electronic Case filing backups and configuring the Jury Management System client for the 2010 G6 servers.  • Network tasks include server installation, running network cable, and patching the network.  • Trouble shooting connection problems including wireless  • Web site tasks include monitoring changes of the U.S. District Court web site with Web Site Watcher and Site Snitch.  • Production of the U.S. District Court inventory process and inventory management flowchart which includes purchasing and excessing equipment and assisting the compliance officer with the management of government property.  • Production of dynamic Adobe forms using Adobe Live Cycle. Use of Adobe Captivate 4 to prepare training modules for attorneys.  • Managing hardware in the data center. Including backups.  • Symantec End-Point Protection console manager administrator tasks include monitoring anti-virus definitions, running reports and adding machines to the database that will be monitored.  • Other tasks include assisting court reporters with Bluetooth issues for their Stenograph.  • Creating documentation for support and end users on the imaging procedures.    TECHNICAL SKILLS/CONTINUED EDUCATION Certified Technician Training Dell September 2010 to September 2010 Polycom Integrator Conferencing Solutions HSGS January 2010 to January 2010 Training, March 2010  • InfoComm 2009 Orlando Training - Tandberg- Basics of Firewall Traversal  • InfoComm 2009 Orlando Training - Tandberg- Quality of Service (QoS)  • InfoComm 2009 Orlando Training - Polycom Integrator Conferencing Solutions  • InfoComm 2009 Orlando Training - AV Integration for Secure Facilities Education Associates Degree in Computer Networking Technology Nashville State Technical Community College - Nashville, TN December 2007