Senior Systems Administrator, Architect Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Architect Helena, AL " Career Summary "  Level 3 Infrastructure Engineer with a keen interest in Hyper-Converged Servers, Storage and Virtualization of the Enterprise. Have managed projects in parallel to admin work for whole career. See IT as a service unit to the other lines of business. Enjoy bringing human qualities to the face of IT by being personable, approachable and interacting with end users and other LOB's as much as possible. Not a server-closet engineer.  Embracing a strong work ethic, unending patience, and a capacity to communicate complex IT solutions in simple terms have allowed me to grow as an IT professional. I pride myself on staying cool under stress, observing surroundings and situations to be able to offer proactive, constructive options to meet all SLA's and milestones.    Key Skills and Proficiencies " Remove ? ""  Hybrid Cloud Topology  AWS Admin    Hyper-Converged Infrastructure    Group Policy - Expert,  PowerShell Scripting    MCSE Server 2008,  Upgrade path to 2012    Support all things Apple    BC / DR for RPO/RTO    Tripwire(SIEM) - DOD STIG scan for compliance    Windows OS - 7,10- Server 2016    VDI- VMware, Horizon View, Xan App - Desktop    Application Delivery -Citrix,  Kaseya, SCCM, Other    ITIL and PMP - Waterfall & Agile Scrum    Cisco Routing and Switching ( Firepower)  IPS, DLP, Splunk    EMR, ERP, SAP - SQL 12-16    Complaince:  PCI, SOX, HIPPA, GDPR    Data Domain, VEAMM,  Other    Cisco routing and switching, Firepower.    Office 365, Gsuite Admin    Unified Access Gateways    VPN, MPLS, Telephony Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator, Architect Private- NDA March 2018 to Present Full Time Employee )  ? Every aspect of Networking from Internet pipes down through firewall, switches  ? BC planning and execution  ? DR planning and testing, improvement  ? Establish and hone a sound technology life cycle spanning software and hardware that show ROI through TCO and other tangible deliverables in Sprints as well as longevity.  ? Log and Event Management (Alerting) through a suite of products offered by Solarwinds  ? Maintain and manage every asset in server room as well as AWS assets, security and design EC2 and EC3  ? Manage and maintain Vsphere sitting on hyper-converged stack of nodes.  ? Compliance testing, scanning and remediation  ? Maintain documentation and diagrams for all resolved issues and the network facets individually  ? Coordinate all efforts involving IT with internal LOB and external vendors.  ? Use JIRA now and have used Remedy and Connectwise for ticketing IT Project Manager- Scrum Master Teksystems for BBVA Compass April 2016 to July 2018 Contractor- Took an opportunity for Benefits)  ? Focusing on PCI compliance, managed a portfolio of projects with Capex-Opex totaling around $4M. Practiced Agile as well as Waterfall PM methodology. Working between multiple technologies platforms, with an emphasis on software/infrastructure that supports full SDLC. Engaged with Mainframe team and around 50 developers, internal and vendors, to create code or update code in Dev-Test leading to production cut over to meet owner acceptance, SLA's and related jobs.  ? Presented progress and status calls to C-Levels on a regular basis.  ? Many projects had requirements that were functional as well as regulatory like HIPPA, PCI, GLBA, SOX.  ? Managed Risk as an issue for a 24x7 production environment where change windows are small. Campus Systems Administrator Vulcan Steel Products May 2015 to April 2016 This privately owned company was bought out and all I.T. were given severance.  ? Maintain all technology proactively and reactively in a 24x7 production environment using PMP and ITIL Principles.  ? Achievements to date. 1. Implemented WSUS. 2. Virtualized some key servers. 3. Retired all 03,08 Servers and replaced, consolidated with Server 2012 R2. 4. Reorganized Active Directory OU structure for Users, Computers and Groups to better align with Group policy implementation now and in the future. 5. Wrote multiple group policy objects to automate the ERP system roll-out on new PC and other. 6. Implemented Hyper-V replication across hosts for VM failover in the absence of shared storage. 7. Configured a DHCP failover partner on second domain controller. Various other IT projects to improve ERP and floor production. 8. Perform security audits and remediation's. Implemented SCCM 2012 Solutions Engineer Konica Minolta 2012 to April 2015 Years 2012-November 2014  Solutions Engineer  ? Support of Sales Team in Qualifying solution opportunities, up to and including, pre-build assessment, the scope of work document, installation-fine tuning, and post sales support. Solutions come in the form of business process improvement, efficiency opportunities through technology to assist as an automation tool that saves employees time or that streamlines a business operations process. These are often customers at an Enterprise Level that requires interaction among many of their departments at once or in phased steps.  ? Assist the field technicians as a first line response to field troubleshooting. Develop and deliver education programs to hone troubleshooting skills and other job centric skills needed to be successful in the field in front of customers  ? Completed certification for solutions: NSI, Ecopy, Page Scope Enterprise, Docrecrd, ScanPath and Equitrac Self-Employed Over The Mountain PC 2002 to 2012 Owner operator of private computer consulting practice to Home and Small-Medium Business. Education Law Degree Birmingham School of Law August 2008 MCSE Athena Technical School 2008 PMP Certification Birmingham-Southern College - Birmingham, AL