Senior Network Administrator (contract) Senior Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (contract) Senior Network Administrator Union City, GA My IT background entails network management, network infrastructure architecture, network engineering, virtual infrastructure administration and vulnerability management. My strengths are in strategic execution and my strong drive for results. I have worked in a diverse mix of industries and held multiples IT roles which have provided me with a well-rounded background for moving organizations forward towards strategic visions and goals. I have completed numerous high level network system builds, enterprise architectural designs and virtualization implementation projects. I am adept in network assessment, analysis and building out and maintaining complex IT enterprises.    I am also a veteran of the United States Air Force having proudly served my country for 8 years with a focus in telecommunications and Information Technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Network Administrator (contract) Mountville Mills, Inc April 2017 to April 2019 • Technical design, planning, implementation, and the highest level of performance tuning and recovery procedures for mission critical corporate networks.  • Recommending the redesign and configuration of networked systems and applications.  • Investigating and analyzing feasibility of system requirements and develops system specifications.  • Support and maintenance of all company routers and switches.  • Complex VLAN implementation and management.  • Designed, implemented and configured SolarWinds suite of products including NPM, NCM, SAM, IPAM.  • Managed LANSweeper Asset Management and Inventory tools.  • SonicWALL firewall implementation, management of policies and firewall high availability via clustering via SonicWALL HA configuration. Infrastructure Solutions Specialist Capgemini US - Atlanta, GA August 2015 to April 2017 • Partnered with GTA to understand organizational and departmental strategies and agree on  information systems solutions to meet the needs of State agencies.  • Maintain an awareness of business solutions particularly in the area of collaboration, document management and CRM that support the mission of GTA.  • Lead in designing, specifying and selecting information system solutions, considering functionality, data, security, integration, infrastructure and performance.  • Develop and maintained a model of design architecture based on SV-3 and SV-6 DODAF & ITIL framework for current and future Infrastructure Architecture.  • Collaborate with GTA in exploiting technology and use knowledge of IT solutions to drive organizational change and support business process design.  • Estimate cost, and prepare business cases for IT solutions, considering infrastructure, licenses, development and support.  • Work with primary State level Service Providers (Microsoft Azure/Office 365; IBM Application/Server; AT&T WAN/LAN Network) to leverage and broker cutting edge solutions to State agencies. Senior Systems Engineer Atlanta Housing Authority - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to August 2015 • Designed, implemented and administrated IBM BigFix Endpoint Management solution for risk assessment through base-lining and vulnerability/patch.  • Provided administration to Active Directory, Exchange Server, network Alerts and monitoring.  • Provided administration and support of firm's VMware 5.5 environment supporting 200+ virtual servers and 250+ VDI clients via VMware Horizon View v5.  • Modified, enhanced, and restored research systems to ensure continued security, availability, reliability and functionality.  • Provide Level 3 support: Diagnose and resolve moderate-to-complex multi- system problems with operating systems, network hardware and/or storage problems.  • Documented system configurations, installations, and maintenance processes via Standard Operating Procedures. IT Infrastructure Manager Conisus, LLC - Atlanta, GA December 2008 to February 2014 • Recruiting and managing a staff of 6 IT network contractors and desktop support team.  • Managing configuration and operation of business IT infrastructures. Optimizing system operations, resource utilization and performing system capacity analysis and planning.  • Consulted with upper management to analyze system needs for functional operations, to determine scope and priorities of projects, and to discuss system capacity and equipment acquisitions. Systems Operations Administrator King & Spalding, LLP - Atlanta, GA December 1998 to December 2008 • Responsible for management and monitoring of enterprise wide Networking Infrastructure & Hardware for a top 10 law firm in Atlanta, supporting 2000+ end users across eight locations – Atlanta, New York, DC, Houston, London, Dubai, Frankfurt, and Riyadh.  • Provided Level 2/3 support and problem resolution of complex problem tickets escalated from the Level 1 Service Desk and/or Systems Operations.  • Work closely with other technical teams across all regions to improve monitoring and troubleshooting.  • Administrated a Wintel infrastructure for Active Directory 2003/2007, DNS and DHCP.  • Key administrative role in firm’s 2000+ user migration from Exchange 2003 to Exchange 2007.  Provided IT solutions for firm’s computer, network and database support for Mass Tort location. Education BS in Information Technologies Westwood College - Atlanta, GA June 2013 to May 2015 Associate in Information Technology Westwood College - Atlanta, GA January 2008 to December 2010 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin, Linux Administrator Certifications/Licenses MCSE September 2005 to Present CCNA March 2009 to March 2012 VCP March 2009 to March 2012 Network+ December 2000 to Present Security+ December 2010 to Present A+ Certified October 1999 to Present ITIL v3 November 2010 to Present