Systems Administrator, Product Genius(Instructional), Motoring Advisor(Sales) <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Product Genius(Instructional), Motoring Advisor(Sales) Systems Administrator, Product Genius(Instructional), Motoring Advisor(Sales) Tampa, FL Work Experience Systems Administrator, Product Genius(Instructional), Motoring Advisor(Sales) P&W Foreign Cars - Pittsburgh, PA March 2017 to April 2019 Managed network of 120 employees across two buildings. Solved problems as they  arose with individual computers and in-house servers.  ? Found efficient solutions with limited resources as they arose on an infrastructure of varying operating systems. (Windows 7, 8, 10. iOS, Android, MacOS, Linux)  ? Taught new and repeat customers the technology present within their vehicles. Handled  all calls involving tech that came into the dealership.  ? Assisted customers in designing their new MINI Cooper or BMW. Helped in the decision-making process to build the best vehicle for each individual sale while staying  within their budget.  ? Presented initial information regarding additional options available through the Finance  department. Earned additional commission based on the end result of each individual  sale.  ? Managed the acquisition, inventory, and use of hazardous materials as well as disposal  of hazardous waste and a spill plan for potential safety and environmental hazards  ? Oversaw the calibration of 251 pieces of testing, measurement, and diagnostic  equipment so that their use ensured safety in maintenance practices supporting aircraft Co-Owner - Ammunition/Explosives Manufacturing, Product Demonstration The Backyard Bunker LLC - Pittsburgh, PA September 2015 to January 2017 Traveling Sales  ? Developed new technologies for civilian legal explosives technologies including smoke  grenades, personal flash bangs, and an assortment of delivery methods for capsaicin  ? Scheduled live machine gun and explosives demonstrations on shooting ranges and near Gun Shows across the country.  ? Attended NSSF Shot Show Conference to learn information on new products and sales  tactics from experts in the fields of ammunition and explosives manufacturing  ? Created and maintained website and newsletter to demonstrate new products, track  inventory, and manage sales.  ? Led classes instructing adults in the basics of suppressors, scopes, and personal  weapon management. Taught firearm safety, precision, and maintenance. Education License in Marketing, Advertising, Business Administration Edinboro University - Edinboro, PA January 2021 McDowell Senior High School - Erie, PA September 2010 to March 2012 Diploma State Champions March 2010 Other Percussion State Champions - Tampa, FL 2010 Skills DMS, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, OUTLOOK, WORDPRESS, Sales, Data Entry, Salesforce, Cold Calling, Account Management Additional Information Technical Proficiencies  ? Website Development (JavaScript, HTML, WordPress)  ? DMS Software (DealerTrack, DealerSpeed, Reynolds&Reynolds)  ? Outlook & Google Drive Mail Systems  ? Lightspeed, ShopVu, Square, Shopify Point of Sales Systems