Cyber Systems Administrator / ISSO Cyber <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / ISSO Cyber Systems Administrator / ISSO - Northrop Grumman Corp Groveland, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Systems Administrator / ISSO Northrop Grumman Corp October 2016 to Present Reviewed and Updated security documentation, IRP and COOP;  ensuring security controls are aligned with the current RMF  ? Conduct audits and ensuring 100% compliance with the current  security policy  ? Developed and Conducted Incident Response Plan tabletop  exercises; ensuring techs are prepared to handle cyber security  incidents.  ? Managed McAfee ePO & DLP; ensuring systems virus definitions  were current and all pushed to all systems and implementing and modifying DLP Policies  ? Performed ACAS scans; generating reports on current system  vulnerabilities and briefing remediation plans  ? Create and modify Visio diagrams; ensuring documentation  reflected current infrastructure and network topology    ? Responsible for reviewing and providing updates on POA&M items  to the ISSM  ? Researched, tested and implemented latest vulnerability fixes and patches  ? Modified firewalls to allow traffic of newly implemented  applications  ? Created dashboards and reviewed Splunk logs; reviewing and following up with any abnormal activity  ? Perform and analyze wireshark captures for malicious network  activities  ? Update security documentation to reflect current standards and processes  ? Deliver monthly, quarterly and annual security deliverables to stakeholders Cyber Systems Administrator / ISSE United States Air Force (ANG) April 2013 to Present Configured LAN/WAN interface IP assignments, routing protocols, VLAN, and Port Security. Configure Cisco Routers, Switches, and  encryption devices  ? Provided support of VSAT and network operations; ensuring  availability of mission critical services  ? Created and Disabled Exchange and Active Directory accounts for incoming and outgoing personnel  ? Performed Eyeretina scans and remediated vulnerabilities with WSUS  ? Managed McAfee ePO, deploying updated DATs and ensuring  100% endpoint communication with the server Information Systems Security Engineer United States Air Force (ANG) May 2008 to March 2013 Reported security incidents and executes corrective security  procedures.  ? Performs system resource management, manages system  accounts, performs system-wide backups and data recovery, and load and capacity planning and management.  ? Established work standards, methods, and controls for preventative, scheduled, and unscheduled maintenance actions.  ? Implements security fixes, operating system patches, and antivirus  software Education BS in Cyber Security University of Maine Augusta - Augusta, ME December 2020 AS in Management Community College of the Air Force February 2013 Skills INCIDENT RESPONSE, SECURITY, NIST, CYBER SECURITY, LINUX, Linux Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/latoya-jackson-404544a9 Additional Information SKILLS    Domain Management Vendor Relations  Change Management KALI Linux toolset  Incident Response Microsoft Server OS  Cyber Security NIST SP 800-53  Continuity Cloud Technologies  Team Player TS/SCI Security Clearance    Cyber Security Analyst / Admin