IT Consultant IT Consultant IT Consultant - Southern Royalty I.T. Services Conyers, GA Accomplished IT Manager with 16+ years of experience managing server infrastructures and data-center operations across multiple platforms (Unix, Linux, Windows). Effectively plan, install, configure and optimize the IT infrastructure to consistently achieve high availability and performance.    Proven ability to create and deliver solutions tied to business growth, organizational development andsystems/network optimization. Hands-on, out-of-the-box thinker with advanced skills in decision-making and persuasive communication, experienced in project and resource management and cross team training. Work Experience IT Consultant Southern Royalty I.T. Services - Conyers, GA June 2018 to Present • Provide IT support for small businesses throughout the Greater Atlanta area • Work directly with users having issues throughout entire problem solving process, including identifying the problem, determining the cause, conducting an investigation, explaining steps to solve and following up on issue.  • Coordinate with third party support service providers for vendor support. Sr. Systems Administrator View Dynamic Glass - Olive Branch, MS July 2017 to July 2018 • Manage day-to-day operations of the host computers by monitoring system performance, configuration, maintenance and repair. Ensures that records of system downtime and equipment inventory are properly maintained • Responsible for maintaining the virtual infrastructure hardware, operating systems, and VMs on servers which support business processing requirements.  • Maintain reliable, secure and high performing systems in a multi-domain, multi-site Windows Active Directory environment that consists of SQL servers, VMware vCenter 6.5, and Windows 2008R2/ 2012/ 2016 server.  • Develops new system and application implementation plans, custom scripts and testing procedures to ensure operational reliability.  • Troubleshoot and customize Office 365 applications including Word, Excel, One Note, Skype for business, and Microsoft Access IT Manager Pro Star Fulfillment Inc July 2016 to July 2017 • Determine all IT policies and procedures with oversight for administration for user permissions, security levels and technical accountability.  • Oversee all systems administration, server monitoring, storage, backup/ recovery, data migration and IP phone system with the goal of 100% uptime for business continuity.  • Recruit, train, and mentor all IT staff, developing teams and leaders to ensure that business value is maximized and IT goals are achieved.  • Provide oversight for IT operations, support desk, service calls and escalated problem resolution.  • Exchange/Office 365 support, maintenance, and administration(account provisioning, migration from Exchange to Office 365, distribution group creation). Network Security Support Engineer Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois - Waukegan, IL August 2014 to January 2016 • Validate customer network configurations are functioning per designs via log flows and alarm notifications • Configure security services for new customers and migrate existing customers to the BCBS Network Operations Center • Document operations procedures to install security devices on the network and configure for managed services customers • Performs root cause analysis and develops checklists for typical problems and recommends procedures and controls for problem prevention. Sr Systems Administrator Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science - Chicago, IL January 2014 to January 2016 • Evaluated and reconfigured company's Unix/Linux/Oracle setup, including reallocating SAN disk space to engineer a robust, scalable solution.  • Managed and monitored VMware vCenter farm with over 150 Windows virtual machines.  • Researched, recommended and implemented network enhancements that improved system reliability and performance.  • Revamped NetBackup schedule. Optimized system availability (averaging 99.9% uptime) and equipped company with scalable systems to support fast business growth.  • Execute manage and lead migrations for Office 365 for Microsoft external clients. IT Enterprise Supervisor Vantage Health Plan - Monroe, LA November 2012 to January 2014 • Plan/conduct major hardware, network, software and operating systems upgrade and migrations.  • Responsible for installation, administration and monitoring of Citrix Server Farm containing over 100 virtual servers.  • Provide Tier 2 and 3 end-user support for 500+ users.  • Wrote and implemented policies and procedures to ensure compliance with all HIPAA and HITECH standards.  • Inherited failing disaster recovery project that had been going for over a year and completed in one month. Information Systems Technician United States Navy December 1998 to September 2012 • Analyzed, logged and tracked complex software and hardware matters of significance related to network connectivity issues, printer, server, and application to meet ship's needs.  • Managed a team of Network and Systems Administrators in conducting security analysis to assess vulnerabilities within the network which consisted of over 1000 users.  • Administered 6 routers and 42 switches with over 26 separate networks and VLANS.  • Coordinated hardware and software installations and upgrades to ensure work was performed in accordance with DoD policies. Recommended resolutions to complex matters and coordinated the implementation of the approved course(s) of action.  • Coordinated and monitored troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose common system problems and documented system events to ensure the system ran at an optimal level.  • Handle trouble calls concerning IT equipment and networking capabilities of the department and identify and escalate situations requiring urgent attention and action and track and route problems, requests while documenting resolutions. Education Certificate in Project Management Grantham University - Lenexa, KS August 2019 to Present Skills Database (Less than 1 year), Database Design (Less than 1 year), LAN (Less than 1 year), LAN/WAN (Less than 1 year), security (10+ years) Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wlrdnqqsgzslm1-a Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  LAN/WAN/NOC Administration  Technical Support  Database Design & Management  Project Management  Systems Installation, Configuration & Upgrading    Workflow Planning  NOS Patches & Updates  Productivity Improvement  Security Solutions  Training & Mentoring