Sr. Network and Systems Administrator Sr. Network and <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Network and Systems Administrator - Cyient Paragould, AR To obtain a promising career in the IT field utilizing my training and knowledge. To interact with team-  members and colleagues to help develop a stronger and more productive workforce, contributing best practices  as learned from extensive experiences. Work Experience Sr. Network and Systems Administrator Cyient - Jonesboro, AR April 2012 to Present • Senior systems admin and only network admin in a team of 8; responsible for resolving escalations, end-user documentation, new implementations and audit compliance.  • Support approximately 1,800 employees in 15 offices and home locations across the US.  • Implemented and maintain a new VoIP system using Asterisk to replace existing telephony  infrastructure across all US offices and home employees.  • Designed new Active Directory structure then developed applications and process for existing domain, workstation and user profile migration for approximately 1,000 systems.  • Plan and implement system and service integrations for new company acquisitions.  • Automated software deployment and configuration management for all servers, workstations and laptops in the US using SaltStack as an alternative to SCCM.  • Implemented VMware Horizon VDI for proprietary customer software environments.  • Planned and deployed advanced VPN client DAP security policies.  • Interview new and train existing IT staff.  • Designed and maintain AD, SFTP and other infrastructure in segregated ITAR environment.  • Recognized by CIO in 2016 for implementation of new technologies with the "Technology Application  Star" award.  • Implemented RedHat IDM with bidirectional MS Active Directory user & password integration.  • Support off-shore IT teams in India. Systems Administrator Star Engineering Services - Houston, TX June 2011 to February 2012 Maintained and supported 50 workstations, including remote support for on-premises and off-shore  users to ensure maximum productivity and efficiency.  • Maintained 3 replicating active directory domains, across 3 geographically separated locations, with DFS and Office365 SSO integration.  • Designed and deployed in-house SIP based VoIP communications system for all locations with cellular  integration; including enterprise class features.  • Managed IT budget for procurement and integration of new hardware and software.  • Exploited a design and process technique in a stress and load simulation system, bringing the model  testing time down from approx. 7 hours to approx.. 16 minutes.  • Designed and deployed LAN and WAN infrastructure including cabling, switching and VPNs. Geek Squad and Services Mgr Best Buy Geek Squad - Fayetteville, AR May 2009 to March 2011 Responsible for overseeing daily operations of the Geek Squad and Geek Squad services throughout the store to ensure quality of services and customer satisfaction.  • Managed quarterly labor budgets for Geek Squad and PC department, also making weekly schedules.  • Trained and coached employees on products and services, as well as sales techniques to ensure all  budgets were exceeded.  • Responsible for overseeing proper repairs on all computers and devices.  • Optimized product placement and signage according to market trends; maximizing revenue potential.  • Responsible for employee interviews, evaluations as well as hiring and termination. Sole Proprietor Pioneer Computer Solutions - Paducah, KY January 2008 to May 2009 • Repair computers and networks for clients at their homes and offices.  • Designed and/or developed tailored solutions for client's specific needs.  • Provided e-mail hosting, as well as web site hosting and design with integrated customer portal and group collaboration; personally designed and hosted on internal systems.  • Maintained client's existing systems through repairs and preventative maintenance on a monthly  basis.  • Provided proprietary backup solutions integrated with VMware for disaster recovery.    David J. A. Clay, 2 of 2 Additional Information • Accomplished and goal-orientated  • Excellent troubleshooting and technical support abilities  • Experienced in workstation rollouts and operating system imaging  • Excels in developing and motivating highly focused teams  • Productivity Improvement  • Operational Leadership  • Experienced in deployment of a diverse array of technologies and systems.