Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - Tensley Consulting San Antonio, TX Talented and creative leader with a "can do" approach. Red Hat Certified System Administrator in releases 5 and 7. Security+ lifetime certification. Extensive experience in strategic thinking, project planning and client-facing support. Personalization experience, delivering tailored results to high profile ventures. Proactive and flexible when resolving issues with an unmatched work ethic. Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Tensley Consulting - San Antonio, TX July 2018 to Present Enriched system infrastructure through implementing Ansible Tower, responsible for all areas of the lifecycle for managing this software. Procured licenses, installed, configured, and developed system playbooks to manage automation of routine tasks and configuration management for critical configuration files.  ? Administrative expertise for troubleshooting and maintenance of Linux/Windows systems and various networking/ specialized equipment. Manages baseline for mission systems and any processes related to these systems, including day-to-day operations, monitoring and problem resolution for all client/server/storage/network devices.  ? Problem identification, diagnosis and resolution. Provides hands on-tailored response to all activities and incidents for senior analyst constituents.  ? Configures and manages Linux, Windows, and Arista systems. Installs and configures operating system software, troubleshoots, maintains integrity and configures system components along with implementing operating systems enhancements to improve reliability and performance.  ? Travels with short notice to remote locations to provide mission systems support for Linux/Windows/Network systems.  ? Author technical documentation to bolster knowledge sharing. Senior Systems Administrator Leidos - San Antonio, TX April 2018 to July 2018 Administrative support for Linux/Windows systems. Manages system infrastructure and any processes related to these systems, including day-to-day operations, monitoring and problem resolution for all client/server/storage/network devices.  ? Provides support for the escalation and communication of status to agency management and internal customers.  ? Provides support for Linux and Windows systems. Manages system software, troubleshoots, maintains integrity and configures system components along with implementing operating systems enhancements to improve reliability and performance. Senior Systems Architect National Security Agency - Fort Meade, MD January 2011 to April 2018 Lead engineer for design and implementation for a technology-related projects. Performed a vendor bake-off to determine the solution garnering approval from the enterprise engineering review board and the local governance board.  ? Discovers talent and recruits accordingly. Conduct interviews to assess hard and soft skills and make hiring recommendations. Matches and align team members to project objectives best suited to their skill sets.  ? Lead for support element. Established new support protocols, led system modernization efforts, implemented product branding and benchmarked technological standards.  ? Author of training materials and conduct training sessions to ensure consistency and continuity of knowledge and remain relevant.  ? Sets goals, create schedules, ensure milestones are met, and provide feedback up and down the leadership channels. Ensures team is fully aware of standards and closely monitor and track all projects to ensure standards are upheld.  ? Critical point in filtering tasks to team members, empowering junior people to perform, motivating staff with morale events, awards recognition and frequent feedback sessions.  ? Maintains regular contact and communication with customers, ensuring full transparency with status and efforts. Constantly evaluate relationships to determine new opportunities for partnership.  ? Open door policy for clear and consistent communication building trust and partnerships that benefit both parties. Senior Consultant Booz Allen Hamilton - Annapolis Junction, MD September 2007 to December 2010 Establishes and co-chairs the organization's review board. Served as the authority when reviewing and approving baseline configuration changes to any project.  ? Routinely meets with vendors and clients, attend vendor training to match best solutions to client needs.  ? Facilitates positive working relationships within the organization, and with clients and vendors.  ? Provides executive support to senior officials. Assess the effectiveness of operations, training and accreditation procedures. Lead requirements for multiple projects in accordance with the project lifecycle, providing client outreach and advocacy.  ? Conducts quality assurance spot check services ensuring maximized support and quality.  ? Performs asset management, tracking supplies, software licensing and privileged information.  ? Prioritizes and complete overhead administrative tasking such as reports in the most efficient and timely method, tailored to audience.  ? Summarizes technical documents and generate key-point briefs for management.  ? Understands and complies with all governance from the various agencies who set policy. Technician Level Three Eagle Alliance - Annapolis Junction, MD March 2006 to September 2007 Establishes enterprise operation guidelines demonstrating exceptional writing skills.  ? Generates standards of operation documents, training team members to ensure knowledge transfer, eliminating stovepipes.  ? Implements technical and logistical strategies for monitoring the overall picture for clients via real-time interface tools.  ? Provides executive support to the Director and to clients, in accordance with guidelines.  ? Ensures team is fully aware of standards and follow through to ensure those standards are upheld.  ? Recapitulates complex technical projects and environments into development milestones for team members. Cryptologic Technician Maintenance, Second Class United States Navy - Fort Meade, MD October 1999 to September 2005 Sets the benchmark by which all team members aspire to as subject matter expert on projects.  ? Leads investigations and inquiries to system issues, recommending solutions on a rapid on-site technical assist in Antalya, Turkey as a subject matter expert, restoring 100 percent operability to a critical system.  ? Recognizes staff with awards ceremonies, positive reviews, morale events, parties and picnics.  ? Subject matter expert for ACCES project, provided gap-training and empowered staff for higher levels of performance.  ? Develops and maintains positive working relationships with org, client and vendors.  ? Spot checks services to ensure we are maximizing on support and quality.  ? Manages projects, improving support for the client while on temporary assignment in Stuttgart, Germany.  ? Performs asset management and conducts inventory of multimillion dollar systems.  ? Prioritizes and completes overhead administrative tasking such as paperwork in the most efficient and timely method.  ? Summarizes technical documents into key-point briefs for management.  ? Understands and complies with all governance from the various agencies who set policy. Education Master of Science in Management and Leadership Western Governors University February 2019 Associates Degree in Information Technology University of Phoenix July 2007 Bachelors of Science in Leadership Lee University Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, Linux, Vmware, Managing projects (10+ years) Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E5 Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nv60v-fbkrpu7dhw Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to prioritize and allocate time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2f5y0xsx13bhqbwz Technical Support — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/krzs-tyzjeui6qkb Problem Solving — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/llpfvjkctkkxaew Intermediate Word Processing Proficiency with Microsoft Word — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jmqgxbmaxvru0yfq Research — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to follow protocols, interpret statistics and graphs, identify errors, and choose research methodology. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s6mqq2i-cm3rkq9r Social Media — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create content, communicate online, and build a brand's reputation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jgx18s5kw-96h5xa Business Math — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to use basic math to solve problems in a business context. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/h1vwhtinyf5l4tca Mechanical Skills: Aptitude — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand and apply mechanical concepts and processes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4qokixkn4xlilarc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.