Systems Administrator - Sanford Guide <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - Sanford Guide Culpeper, VA Work Experience Systems Administrator - Sanford Guide Sanford Guide - Sperryville, VA July 2018 to Present • Administration and troubleshooting of SonicWall firewall. Creating security poilcies, custom IP configurations, firmware upgrades, and WAN zone configurations.  • Lead administrator of Windows Server 2012 R2 server. Administering Active Directory, creating GPO's for desktop confirgurations, security policies, creating and managing users and groups, WSUS, RDWeb Server with certificate management.  • Administration of Apple desktop and laptop computers e.g. Mac Mini and Macbook Pro.  • Administration of EERO wireless mesh environment, with notification and minitoring of security incidents.  • Intermediate administration of Amazon AWS Cloud infrastructure e.g. EC2 Instances, Route53 DNS administration, CloudWatch and S3 buckets.  • Administration of N2WS Cloud Protection Manager for backup, replication and disaster recovery of AWS EC2 instances and S3 buckets.  • Administration of Jive VoIP phone system running custom firmware e.g. disabling LLDP and others services, for proper connectivity to Jive's cloud servers.  • Basic Python 3.7.2 scripting with IDLE and PyCharm.  • Administrtion of Netgear managed ntwork switches.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining corporate network documentation and security policies. Senior Systems Engineer Cyber BDA - Middleburg, VA January 2017 to Present • Provided cyber security administration and NIST practices for the organization.  • Conducted cyber security system lock-downs with Shinobi SeP, DeP, and Evolution SV encryption software on Windows Server 2012 and Windows 10 Professional operating systems.  • Administered and troubleshooting of the Fortinet FortiGate 80C firewalls with custom security policies.  • Administered and troubleshooting of Cisco ASA 5520 firewalls.  • Administered of Dell managed network switches.  • Administered and troubleshooting of Oracle Java SE 8u131 environments within Microsoft Windows Server and Workstations.  • Implemented CAT 5e and CAT 6 cabling throughout the organization to connect to Dell switches.  • Provided tier 3 system engineer support on a daily basis.  • Provided wireless administration of Netgear, Verizon, and Excede wireless routers.  • Provided Active Directory administration and troubleshooting within Windows Server 2012 R2 domain.  • Performed system backups via Carbonite and disaster recovery utilizing Dell AppAssure replication to DR sites.  • Provided management of all VMware virtual servers hosted at local data center. Senior Systems Engineer EduCap Inc - Sterling, VA January 2013 to July 2016 • Provided leadership, corporate operations training, and mandatory security training for all staff within the organization.  • Administered the VMware vShpere 6 environment, Dell EqualLogic SAN, and AppAssure 5 backup and recovery.  • Administered the daily Active Directory domain activities within the corporation.  • Created and administered disaster recovery points between to facilities via Dell Appassure.  • Performed the day to day system and network administration on internal network.  • Created and applied system, network, and security procedures across the corporation and provided yearly security audits with Bank of America, Fiserv Credit Card Services, and HSBC.  • Administered and troubleshot issues with Cisco ASA firewall, basic Cisco Catalyst Switch maintenance, and Dell managed switches.  • Basic experience with Windows PowerShell, while troubleshooting Office 365 Exchange administration.  • Implemented and administered the Avaya VoIP phone system.  • Created and administered custom Windows Server 2012, 2008, and Windows 7 Pro virtual machines in the VMware 5.5 environment.  • Provided budgeting and purchasing for all system, network, VoIP and peripheral equipment within the organization. Senior Systems Engineer General Dynamics IT - Warrenton, VA February 2012 to December 2012 • Provided senior computer engineering support for federal medical contractor.  • Administered Active Directory, editing and deploying GPO's to OU's.  • Implemented, administered and troublshot VMware vCenter Server 5.0, vSphere 5.0, vMotion, Storage vMotion, Storage DRS, and VCA's within the organization.  • Tested new technologies e.g. applications, networking devices, operating systems in a lab environment. To see if the software and hardware can be beneficial to the company's growth.  • System performance monitoring and improvement, utilizing integrated Windows performance monitoring tools, SCOM 2007, and SolarWinds Orion.  • Administered and troubleshot issues with Active Directory, Exchange, Lyris List Server, McAfee IronMail appliances, and VMware vCenter with 120 enterprise virtual machines. Senior Systems Support Engineer SRA International - Fairfax, VA March 2011 to January 2012 • Provided enterprise systems and network support for the military on a classified network.  • Provisioned new servers, workstations, laptops, perform security lock-downs on computers via Windows server GPO's.  • Administered and troubleshot problems with Windows Server 2003 R2, Windows Server 2008 R2, and Exchange Server 2003.  • Worked with off-site computer vendors. Network Administrator SNVC, L.C - Fairfax, VA January 2010 to February 2011 • I was responsible for the advanced implementation and management of information systems for SNVC, L.C. and was in charge of LAN/WAN operations within the corporation.  • Implemented, administered, and troubleshot problems with: Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Server 2003, Windows 7, Cisco UC560 core, Cisco 2900 POE switches, and Cisco IP phones, SonicWall NSA3500, while performing Access Objects, creating NAT Policies, and Firewall Policies across the internal LAN/WAN.  • The lead engineer for the Backup/Disaster Recovery project, utilizing Acronis Backup & Recover 11 Advanced Virtual Edition.  • The lead engineer implementing and administering VMware vCenter, vSphere 4.1, converting physical machines to virtual, and clustering.  • Managed two junior network administrators on-site.  • Experience in Infrastructure Planning and Development. I designed, upgraded and transitioned an entire companies networking environment. Senior System Administrator IIF Data Solutions - Centreville, VA February 2005 to February 2010 • Implemented, administered and troubleshot problems with: Exchange Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2003, Active Directory, DENS, Windows Group Policies, Windows 7 Enterprise, Windows Vista Ultimate, Windows XP Pro SP2.  • Lead and managed a group of Jr. System and Network Admin's as well as 9 Web Developers in a mission critical environment. Systems Administrator Server Vault Corp - Dulles, VA March 2002 to January 2005 • Provided Tier 3 support for Windows 2000 and 2003 Servers and Tier 1/2 problems for Sun Solaris servers.  • Created custom GPO's for Windows Server 2003.  • Performed security lock-downs on Windows Server 2003, Windows XP, and Windows 2000 environments.  • Implemented, administered, and troubleshot problems with Active Directory, DNS, WINS, DHCP scopes, and zones in a Windows Server 2003 and Windows 2000 Server environment.  • Provided end user support for off site company clients.  • Monitored and troubleshot problems via Nagios with all of our client's servers in house.  • Implemented, administered, and troubleshot Exchange 2003 Servers in a clustered environment, which included working with Cluster Administrator, working with a 2 Node Cluster talking to an EMC Clarion backed SAN.  • Created Exchange user accounts, worked with OWA and OMA, migrated Public Folders and user mailboxes, moved user mailboxes using ExMerge and Exchange Task wizard, worked with Disk Quotas, and individual .OST and .PST files.  • Managed Brights tor ARCserve Backup Release 11, while performing Incremental and Full backups, Brick Level backups with Exchange Server 2003 mailboxes, and installing backup clients on workstations and servers.  • Provisioned servers and workstations via RIS and Altiris Imaging.  • Implemented software RAID 1, 5, and 10 on servers and storage devices.  • Worked with WSUS server while configuring patches, security updates, and driver updates.  • Implemented single-mode fiber optic, CAT 6, and CAT 5 cables throughout the facility. Manager of the IT Department Symantec Mail Security 2005 to 2005 • Basic SQL Server 2000, 2005, and II experience.  • Implemented and administered Veritable Backup Exec, WSUS 3.0, Fedora Linux, and Symantec Corporate Edition, Symantec Mail Security 8360 appliance with Bright mail, Cisco ASA Firewall GUI, EMC Clarion AX150, Brocade Silkworm Switches, SAN Surfer, EMC PowerPath, EMC NaviSphere, CL, Port Zoning and Port Provisioning for connectivity with EMC SAN's.  • Provisioned and restored servers and workstations utilizing Acronis True Image 11 and True Image Echo Server.  • Managed the corporate VMware Es Xi 4.0 servers, which ran 9 virtual machines.  • Implemented and managed multiple MOSS 2007 servers which included, editing web parts, lists, managing permissions, and worked with Bright Work pm Point a SharePoint add-on application.  • Manager of the IT Department who managed 6 junior and mid-level IT staff. Network Engineer Blueflame Incorporated - Dulles, VA 2000 to 2001 • I was responsible for all network operations and WAN support at the Dulles facility, which included 31 users and supported over 300 users in three satellite offices.  • Provided advanced support for Dell workstations and servers in a Windows 2000 environment. It also consisted of 4 Sun Solaris 2.8 Servers in multiple locations.  • Provided daily administration of Windows 2000 DC's, DNS Servers, WINS servers, and Exchange 2000 Servers at multiple site locations.  • Managed OWA, System Manager, X400 messaging protocols, Front-End/Back-End Servers, SMTP Connectors to connect with legacy mail servers, e.g. MS Mail and Lotus Domino, moved mailboxes from older mail servers to Exchange 2000, Exchange Clustering, worked with the Exchange Information Store, and backed up and restored Exchange 2000. • Implemented and administered Lotus Domino servers and configuring Lotus Notes on workstations for our primary off-site clients.  • Worked with Nokia IP300 Firewalls, Checkpoint software, and Policy Editor.  • Provided daily administration of the corporate Norton Anti-virus Corporate Edition server.  • Other administration duties included implementing CAT5 and fiber optic cable, working with CAC patch panels, working with 3Com 10/100 Fast Ethernet switches, basic administration of Cisco 2500 and Cisco 1700 routers, administration of MOM 2000, MIS 2000, ISA 2000, and created network diagrams via Visio 2002. LAN/WAN Developer Lockheed Martin - Falls Church, VA 1999 to 2000 • Helped supervise the Enterprise NOC, which supported over 3,000 users on a government classified global network.  • Implemented and administered Windows 2000 Server, Windows 2000 Professional, Windows NT Servers, Windows NT Workstation, HP-UX with the DIICOE build, and Sun Solaris.  • Provided basic administration on Cisco Switches and Cisco Routers.  • Provided remote network administration for all ADNET government sites running HP-UX w/DIICOE build.  • Was the primary administrator for the NTRS and AMHS servers for DISA's ADNET.  • Administered the KIV Crypto machines, which included renewing crypto keys and re-syncing crypto connectivity with remote machines at other classified government sites.  • Maintained UNIX DNS and POP3 mail servers on HP-UX.  • Worked on the Remedy ARS System. Provided support for the ADNET CM Department, with the selection of new equipment, and inventory of purchased equipment.  • Held a SECRET clearance with this position. Education BS in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Strayer University - Manassas, VA June 2020 Diploma Wakefield High School - Arlington, VA June 1985 Skills Linux (1 year), Windows Server 2012 (6 years), Vmware, Active Directory, Linux Administrator, System Admin, System Administrator