Human Resources Systems Administrator Human Resources <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Human Resources Systems Administrator Butler, NJ Work Experience Human Resources Systems Administrator 2011 to 2019 Successfully completed data validation and reconciliation for conversion from legacy HCM to Workday prior to deadline, ensuring data was converted accurately.  ? Achieved end to end testing of business processes for Workday conversion without errors.  ? HCM super user, provided functional support to HR team throughout organization including foundation table setups.  ? Processed corporate employee transactions up to senior level staff, with utmost discretion, safeguarding confidential information.  ? Resolved HRIS helpdesk inquiries / issues on HR related transactions, reduced data entry errors by providing guidance, and directing to user instruction manuals.  ? Trained new users and provided training to users on new system features, increasing user knowledge through effective training.  ? Conducted and maintained Sarbanes Oxley ( SOX ) quarterly and annual testing, documentation and changes seamlessly without any exceptions or findings from internal and external audits.  ? Collected, audited, prepared and submitted data for regulatory reporting including EEO-1, VETS-4212, and AAP Analysis. Data always timely and accurate.  ? Authored user friendly manuals on internal processes, and companywide instructional manuals ensuring business continuity as well as increasing data accuracy.  ? Developed and managed complex ad hoc report requests for Management.  ? Uploaded mass annual salary increases for 8,000+ employees in US, Canada, China, and Europe.  ? Compiled, validated, and uploaded data from various sources into Microstrategy BI application for Quarterly Global Headcount reporting, identifying opportunities to use mapping tools to replace manual corrections. Senior Payroll Administrator 2007 to 2011 Accurately processed divisional payroll for 4,500 US employees utilizing PeopleSoft 9.1, consistently meeting deadlines.  ? Thoroughly reviewed and processed new hires, terminations, direct deposits, W4's, and leave accruals to ensure accurate payroll processing.  ? Audited and processed Tax Liability and Garnishment interfaces to ADP.  ? Translated requirements into system test case scenarios, tested, and documented vendor supplied garnishment and system tax updates effectively.  ? Investigated and resolved payroll discrepancies diligently to maintain positive working relationships with HR clients.  ? Provided support to Payroll Supervisor in testing and maintaining SOX controls and procedures for quarterly submission, resulting in key controls operating effectively.  ? Contributed to implementing process improvements.  ? Recipient of a recognition award for meeting project timelines and contributing above and beyond responsibilities to the success of the PeopleSoft 9.1 upgrade. Payroll Supervisor Securitas Security Services - Parsippany, NJ 2004 to 2007 Senior Payroll Analyst Education Certificate in Human Resource Management William Paterson University of New Jersey - Wayne, NJ June 2019 to Present Certificate in SHRM Essentials of Human Resources William Paterson University - Wayne, NJ August 2019 Business Administration County College of Morris - Township of Randolph, NJ Skills Workday, Hrms, Peoplesoft, Sharepoint, Crystal reports, Pivot tables, Jde, Sql, Jde system, Excel, Powerpoint, Microsoft word, Word, Customer Relations, HR, MS Office, Payroll, Human Resources, Microsoft Excel, training Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/marybell-monroig Additional Information SKILLS    PeopleSoft HRMS v9.1, and JDE system  Microsoft Word, Excel including Pivot Tables, VLOOKUP, and PowerPoint  Basic SQL Query, Crystal Reports  Workday  SharePoint