Premier Field Engineer Premier Field Engineer Systems Engineer Oklahoma City, OK IT Systems Engineer with 12+ years of experience in server and application administration. Managed technologies such as Active Directory, Exchange, VMware, SCCM, Lync/Skype for Business, image deployment, VBScript, PowerShell script and function writing. Transitioning current engineer and administrator skill set into cloud engineering and automation. Currently learning Linux fundamentals and applying existing programming knowledge to Python.    Looking for a remote position, will travel as needed. Will relocate to greater Seattle area as well. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Premier Field Engineer Microsoft 2018 to Present Provide proactive and reactive assistance for the planning, migration, and operations of Skype for Business and Microsoft Teams. Be a trusted adviser and technical resource for Microsoft customers in driving excellence and adoption in their environments. Senior Technical Consultant Perficient November 2016 to February 2018 Assist in planning, building, migrating, and deploying customers to Skype for Business, Office 365, and AudioCodes infrastructure. Gather business and technical requirements for projects. Write design documentation and other project artifacts. Execute project plan and act as escalation point for support issues. IT Services Professional Devon Energy November 2013 to November 2016 Support Microsoft Exchange 2013/Hybrid Online multi-site DAG and Skype for Business 2015 environment including Unified Messaging and Dial-In Conferencing. Provide on-call support with a focus on improving operation activities and systems reporting. Develop PowerShell scripts and advanced functions and automation, such as user provisioning and usage reporting. Deploy AudioCodes SBCs for connecting to Exchange Online Voice Mail. Systems Administrator OFMQ April 2012 to October 2013 Support Windows Server environment on vSphere 5.0 and Dell servers. Deploy OS and application patches using Dell KACE K1000. Administer Barracuda appliances for spam and Web content filtering. Design and manage offsite disaster recovery environment. Systems Administrator Oklahoma Corporation Commission July 2007 to March 2012 Support Windows Server environment and Dell servers. Manage DNS, DHCP, remote access, user accounts, distribution lists, security groups, and group policies. Configure SCCM for software distribution and OS image deployments utilizing custom-written VBScripts. Migration of Active Directory to Server 2008 and Exchange Server to 2007. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Western Governors University Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Skype for Business (6 years), Exchange Server (6 years), Azure (Less than 1 year), Powershell (7 years), Office 365 (3 years), DNS Links https://www.jeffbrown.tech https://github.com/JeffBrownTech http://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffwaynebrown Certifications/Licenses MCSA Windows Server 2008 MCSA Windows Server 2012 MCSE Productivity MCSE Communications MCSE Messaging MCSA Office 365 Azure Administrator Associate Azure Solutions Architect Expert A valid IT Specialist certification