SENIOR SYSTEM ENGINEER SENIOR <span class="hl">SYSTEM</span> ENGINEER SENIOR SYSTEM ENGINEER - Accuserv Host, LLC Coolidge, AZ • Dedicated IT Professional with over 15 years of experience  • Flexible and adaptable into any situation that's presented  • Maintains a professional demeanor regardless of the work conditions  • Implements effective training strategies and documentation for best practices  • Knowledgeable in Linux, Unix, and Microsoft operating systems Work Experience SENIOR SYSTEM ENGINEER Accuserv Host, LLC - Kansas City, MO November 2015 to Present • Managed their infrastructure across two data centers that utilized routing and switching from Brocade, Juniper with physical and virtual systems powered by VMware, Dell, IBM systems.  • Utilized WHMCS for ticketing and documentation management.  • Deployed a real-time network monitoring application on any aspect of their infrastructure.  • Deployed VoIP solutions into VMWare and provided training to onsite staff and to VoIP customers.  • Provide automation solutions leveraging shell scripting and Ansible playbooks.  • Continuously reviewed plans and result analysis for capacity planning.  • Provisioned systems and networks into Observium and Cacti for real-time monitoring SENIOR SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Four Jays, Inc - Pocatello, ID September 2017 to October 2018 Coolidge, AZ  • Deployed Cisco, Ubiquity, and Netgear equipment for their routing, switching, and wireless needs.  • Provided system administration efforts to their Windows and Linux systems.  • Provided RDBMS administration to their data-driven application.  • Deployed BASH scripts for the linux servers to automate routing tasks.  • Created a support ticketing site for internal users to utilize for anything they had problems with.  • Provide remote support to end users for any issues they had. SENIOR ENTERPRISE MONITORING ENGINEER Porcaro, Stalrek, and Mete Partners - Tempe, AZ October 2017 to May 2018 • Provided subject matter expert duties in the area of the Pandora FMS Monitoring application.  • Utilized shell scripting to collect information from the databases that ran the monitoring application.  • Crafted playbooks to be utilized with Ansible for their any tasks that needed to be ran.  • Submitted documentation for their monitoring application to be used as a guide in SharePoint.  • Trained junior personnel on how to use the Pandora FMS system and how it's was implemented.  • Helped identify other open source solutions that were scalable to large business needs. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Farmobile, LLC - Leawood, KS November 2015 to May 2016 • Managed and maintained their systems and network infrastructure.  • Recommended solutions for messaging (MQ) using open source standards and the MQTT protocol.  • Created and deployed real-time monitoring solutions using NetData, Cacti, AWStats, and Webmin.  • Created and managed EC2 and RDS instances in the AWS Cloud.  • Created technical documentation for processes and procedures.  • Technologies used: CentOS, PostGreSQL, SonicWall, GrayLog, NetData, AWS, NAS SENIOR LINUX ENGINEER IT Consulting - Kansas City, MO November 2013 to November 2015 Kansas City, KS.  • Managed Linux server clusters that deployed Centrify for usage with Active Directory.  • Supported the RAC and HA Clustered environments using Red Hat and Oracle Enterprise Linux.  • Developed software interfaces using JavaScript for the medical and pharmaceutical industries  • Created PowerShell scripts to automate software deployments on Windows servers and workstations.  • Implemented BASH scripts to assist with the day-to-day processes and procedures. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR / DiCOM INTERFACE ENGINEER Olathe Medical Center - Olathe, KS June 2013 to November 2013 • Served as the systems and network administration on all matters pertaining to the IBM-centric environment that utilized Power VM, HMC, and DS Subsystems.  • Acted as a support conduit for the Cerner systems that were deployed and any future systems they needed implemented.  • Managed and maintained HL-7 software interfaces that spoke to medical equipment, EMR, financial and accounting systems using eGate. SENIOR SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Count on Me Transcription - Welty, OK October 2011 to November 2013 • Served as the primary administrator for all of the systems and networks running at the facility.  • Deployed SonicWall UTM appliance(s) for security, firewall, and VPN services.  • Generated various daily reporting solutions via HTML and XML for leadership review.  • Performed training on the radiology software to leadership and personnel. SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR Cobalt Talon - Overland Park, KS April 2013 to June 2013 • Managed their physical and virtual server environments running, Microsoft and SuSE Enterprise.  • Performed AD management over their users, computers and any other devices on their network.  • Conducted weekly meetings with the team to go over any and all matters relating to the infrastructure.  • Generated documentation, as needed, on the infrastructure and the software that was deployed. SYSTEMS ENGINEER Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, MO June 2012 to January 2013 • Managed and maintained systems running Windows, AIX, and Linux.  • Patched and upgraded the systems and applications on an as-needed basis follow strict guidelines.  • Gain in-house training for ITIL and utilized Remedy ITSM for ticket and change management.  • Provided bash scripts for automating software deployments. IT Consultant ADP - Jacksonville, FL September 2005 to October 2011 FL Area  • Managed and maintain servers in the physical/virtual space in various data centers, stores, offices, and car dealerships that were utilizing ADP as their solutions provider.  • Provided systems and network administration to officers, clinics, practices, and hospitals that utilized custom PACS and RIS software.  • Gained knowledge in the areas of DICOM, HL-7, and HIPAA while providing technical writing for updating documents, publications, and standards. Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Systems Security ITT Technical Institute 2011 to 2012 Skills Linux, Cisco, Dhcp, Juniper, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vpn, Unix, Dns, Hipaa, Itil, Pci, Html, Javascript, Xml, Voip, Database, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle Additional Information Skills  • Operating Systems: Linux, Unix, and Microsoft • Networks: Cisco, Juniper, Fortinet, Brocade  • Storage Technologies: IBM, EMC • VoIP: FreePBX  • Programming: HTML, XML, JavaScript, Shell • Cloud Services: AWS  • Database: SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle • Automation: Ansible  • Protocols: TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, VPN • Standards: ITIL, HL-7, HIPAA, PCI