Cloud System Engineer Cloud <span class="hl">System</span> Engineer Cloud System Engineer - CACI International Inc Clearwater, FL Work Experience Cloud System Engineer CACI International Inc - Tampa, FL May 2019 to Present • Manage coalition networks for AFRICOM, EUCOM, NORTHCOM, US CENTCOM, PACOM, and FEVY Partners.  • Administrator for Central Command Exercise Network to include Windows Server 2016 Domain Controllers, GPO, File Servers, Active Directory management with over 2k users worldwide.  • Support Mission Enclaves using vCenter, NSX, HyTrust, NetApp, and use of multiple types of encryption within a Server 2016 environment.  • Responsible for software and patch testing for Server 2012/2016, 3rd party applications, and hardware for worldwide deployment.  • Applied patches, updates and upgrades to the hosts and servers.  • Provide onsite and remote Tier 3 support for multiple enclave cloud environments. VMWare Virtual Systems Administrator Jacobs Technology, Tampa - MacDill AFB, FL March 2018 to May 2019 • Provided administration support for the installation and upgrades of ESXi/vSphere technologies in accordance with established client's SLA and procedures.  • Installed, configured, and managed VMware vSphere and VDI environments: vCenter, Horizon View, hypervisor on new hosts, data store creation, and maintenances in coordination with team engineers.  • Troubleshot and resolved problems and monitors system performance while simultaneously support staff engaged in similar efforts  • Deployed and maintained enterprise virtual server infrastructure environments and VDI pools.  • Applied patches, updates and upgrades to the hosts and servers. Remediate vulnerability via ACAS.  • Build required reports and submit to appropriate personnel for review.  • Maintained system availability in accordance with service level agreements and incident response metrics. IT Specialist (SYSADMIN) Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center June 2017 to March 2018 Provide training and technical support for users with varying levels of IT knowledge and competence:  • Interpreted and applied information management (IM) Information Technology (IT) policies, process, and guidelines for the organization.  • Performed a variety of information technology functions (e.g., research, evaluate, installed, configured, and troubleshot software and equipment etc.) to meet integrated systems objectives.  • Maintained oversight for the management of systems resources (e.g., performance, capacity availability, serviceability, integrity, efficiency, and recoverability) in the organization.  • Performed vulnerability and risk analyses of computer systems and applications during all phases of the system development life cycle.  • Provided advice and recommendations on Information Management and Information Technology system administration efforts. Systems Administrator CACI International Inc - Bagram, AF December 2015 to May 2017 • Responsible for the day-to-day operation of computer networks including hardware/software support, training, and special projects.  • Established and maintained user accounts, profiles, file sharing, access privileges and security.  • Performed necessary and required Operating System updates and configuration changes.  • Installed and configured new hardware and software.  • Ensured compliance with Security guidelines and standards.  • Troubleshoot application and system hardware and software issues.  • Performed database administration, network, application, system architecture and design technical support, as necessary.  • Planned and implemented future IT developments and undertaking project work.  • Established and implemented training procedures and guidelines for users.  • Issued SIPR PKI token, revocations of PKI certificates and troubleshooting for users. Systems Administrator VMware - MacDill AFB, FL May 2014 to December 2015 • Provided technical support for installation, configuration, and administration of VMware ESXi/vSphere technologies.  • Installed, configured, and managed VMware vSphere environment: vCenter, hypervisor on new hosts, data store creation, and maintenance in coordination with team engineers.  • Administered, maintained, and troubleshot Storage Area Networks (SAN) and Network Attached Storage (NAS) attached to the VMware environments  • Maintained operation of multi-user enterprise computer systems, including coordination with network engineers. Monitored and manager system resources including CPU usage, disk usage, and response times to maintain operating efficiency.  • Deployed and maintained enterprise virtual server infrastructure environments.  • Developed and maintained templates for VM infrastructure.  • Troubleshoot and aided remote sites of the virtualization environment.  • Applied patches, updates and upgrades to the hosts and servers. Remediate vulnerability via ACAS.  • Build required reports and submit to appropriate personnel for review.  • Maintained system availability in accordance with service level agreements and incident response metrics. Systems Administrator BAE Systems, Tampa - MacDill AFB, FL August 2011 to May 2014 • Performed the daily maintenance and administration on servers spanning over 5 different networks to ensure systems availability, functionality, integrity and efficiency.  • Managed the installation and integration of systems fixes, updates, and enhancements to comply with information security/ information assurance policies, principles, and practices in the delivery of systems administration services.  • Troubleshot and identifies problems with all servers to include Microsoft SharePoint, MS Domain Controller (DC), VMWare vCenter, MS SQL and MS Exchange.  • Planned and scheduled the installation of new or modified hardware and operating systems and applications software.  • Resolved hardware/software interface and interoperability problems.  • Performed Exchange daily checks by monitoring the logs and statistics reports in order to provide a reliable Messaging and Collaboration environment for the end users.  • Assisted end users with Microsoft Outlook/OWA and Enterprise Vault issue.  • Restored/Purge, import/export PST and perform FOIA search as needed. Systems Administrator/HOCNET Field Service Representative (FSR) BAE Systems, Herat - AF March 2011 to August 2011 • Administered servers which are configured as DC, DNS, File & print servers.  • Managed systems resources including performance, capacity, availability, serviceability and recoverability.  • Performed systems security administration functions, including creating user profiles and accounts. Configured administrator accounts, maintain system documentation, tune system performance, install system wide software and allocate mass storage space.  • Build/re-image and replace computers as needed.  • Completed CERP (Certified Equipment Replacement Program).  • Troubleshot computer related issue ranging from hardware/software, printers and user's accounts/profile.  • Provided technical direction on the network topologies, server configurations hardware software deployments, and firewall configurations. Senior JWICS Technician General Dynamics, Tampa - MacDill AFB, FL 2008 to 2011 Administrator on the Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System supporting CENTCOM personnel stateside and deployed, duties included:  • Provided first-level contact and problem resolution for all users with hardware, software and applications problems. Resolved as many user-reported problems as expertise permits using available tools and following procedures and policies for the handling of support cases.  • Acted as a liaison between customers and internal support staff to assure accurate problem interpretation, researching, evaluating, and providing feedback on problematic trends and patterns in customer support requirements.  • Diagnosed and resolved problems in response to customer reported incidents.  • Installed, configured software, hardware, network connectivity and printers.  • Created and updated user accounts through active directory and Solaris.  • Developed and maintained problem tracking and resolution databases of incidents tickets.  • Ensured the rigorous application of information security/information assurance policies, principles, and practices in the delivery of customer support services are followed as trusted agent for PKI purposes. Enrolling customers in the PKI process, providing a point of contact to issue and install the certificates.  • Developed customer support policies, procedures, and standard are followed when migrating uses accounts from and to deployed locations. Information System Technician U.S. Navy, NAS North Island - San Diego, CA 2004 to 2008 Supervised junior personnel in maintaining and support of command's computing for over 200 users that ranges, but not limited to:  • Optimized system operations to ensure the maximum possible quality  of service for users.  • Provided troubleshooting for hardware problems and LAN issues.  • Assisted users in their use of the system.  • Maintained data files and configuration to ensure optimum data integrity.  • Conducted training on standard software applications.  • Developed technical guides and standard operating procedure as needed.  • Oversee periodic counts of computer inventory and IT asset management.  • In charge of Command's IAVA compliance. Education B.S. in Management Information System University of South Florida Skills AWS, Azure, Powershell Additional Information • Information System Technician with over 15 years of increasing responsibilities in technical leadership, computer technology and business-critical management  • Experience in hardware, networking, TCP/IP protocol and troubleshooting network connectivity  • Strong organizational and analytical skills, attention to detail, excellent verbal and written communication skills, and the ability to work in a fast pace environment