IT Systems Analyst II / IT Team Lead IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst II / IT Team Lead IT Systems Analyst II / IT Team Lead - Pathways Home Health & Hospice Manteca, CA Windows Server Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA), seasoned IT professional with more than 20 years of combined working experience in the field of Information Technology encompassing local and multi-national companies started in the Philippines, Singapore and the United States. Experienced in Health Care Information Systems or Electronic Health Records, Insurance Leads, Airline Distribution Systems & Stock Brokerage Systems. Experience and familiarity with HIPAA/PHI security compliance protocols. Adept in All Microsoft Windows systems and network (LAN/WAN) administration / management, website administration, .NET development and production roll out support, systems integration, project implementation and support, helpdesk and customer support role. Work Experience IT Systems Analyst II / IT Team Lead Pathways Home Health & Hospice - Sunnyvale, CA April 2013 to Present Duties and responsibilities includes but not limited to, overseeing day to day IT operations at Pathways. Managing a team of four IT administrators and helpdesk technicians, assisting around 100 office employee and 250 field nurses and doctors. Supporting three offices in Sunnyvale, South San Francisco and Oakland office. Maintaining and managing disaster recovery (DR) site in Raging Wire located in Sacaramento CA. Maintaining and administering around 100 virtual servers running on Cisco UCS server infrastructure, managing and administering of Cisco routers, Cisco Nexus & Catalyst switches, ASA firewall with FirePower, Cisco UC system, Cisco UCCX, Virtual Servers infrastructure. Maintaining and managing VMWare Airwatch (Space One) Mobile Device Management (MDM). Managing and administering on premise Active Directory 2012, Exchange 2016, SharePoint 2016, file & print servers, SFTP, E-Fax, Manage Engine's Service Desk, Self Service, AD Manager Plus and Audit. Managing McAfee Endpoint Security, ProofPoint email security/encryption. Providing IT 2nd level support for Pathways employee with regards to computers and connectivity issues. Managing several project regarding new systems implementation, network and systems upgrade and DR implementation. Supporting EPIC EHR Systems for Home Health. Reporting to the IT director at El Camino Hospital. Systems Engineer Allscripts - Chicago, IL March 2012 to March 2013 Assigned to its client Pathways Home Health & Hospice - Sunnyvale CA    Managing a group of five IT professional at Pathways. Primarily in charge of the Pathways network and systems infrastructure. Responsibilities includes but not limited to administering and managing Windows 2012/2008 Active Directory server 2012, Microsoft Active Directory Certification Authority, Microsoft Exchange servers 2010-2016 Microsoft Office 2010/2013/2016, Office 365 Intune, Microsoft Lync 2010, Sharepoint, MS SQL Server 2008, Microsoft KMS, Mcafee Endpoint Protection Suite, McAfee Web Gateway, Cisco UCS servers, Cisco ASA 5520, Cisco ASA 5516, Cisco Catalyst 3750 Series, Cisco 3800 Series Router, Cisco Unity Server, Cisco Call Manager, Cisco Jabber, Cisco Wireless Controller (WCS) VMWare, VMWare Airwatch Mobile Management System, ArcServe Backup Systems, SouthRiver Cornerstone Manage File Transfer (MFT), Xmedius E-Fax Server, ProofPoint Email Encryption / Spam Filtering, Microsoft FOE Email filtering, Allscripts Homecare System, Solarwind Network Performance Monitor (NPM), Solarwind Network Traffic Analyzer (NTA) Solarwind SAM, Cisco AnyConnect VPN, NetMotion Mobility VPN, Juniper VPN, Barracuda Web Filter, Barracuda Load Balancer/Reverse Proxy, Management of both internal and external DNS, internal and external PKI management, Active Directory Certificate Authority and RADIUS authentication. Currently supporting EPIC Healthcare System for Home Health and Hospice clinicians.    Providing user technical support to office employees and doctors and field clinicians for three offices located in Sunnyvale, South San Francisco & Oakland providing support for desktop, laptop, tablet internet and mobile phones connectivity, VPN and Allscripts Home Care System and Epic Health Care System. Spearheading Disaster Recovery Implementation. Assisting Pathways compliance department to stablish HIPAA and IT Security Policies for Pathways. Online Operations Administrator AllWebLeads - Austin, TX July 2011 to January 2012 Duties and Responsibilities:  Responsible for managing and maintaining development and production systems , administering both Windows 2008 R2 and LAMP environment running CENTOS, RHEL and Debian Squeeze, assisted online operations group to improve AllWebLeads existing infrastructure which include networks, servers, databases and application upgrade, performed systems and network monitoring servers and databases backup and recovery, disaster recovery, configured and administer SAN, DAS, supported Engineering team in building development and QA environment based on .NET on Windows and PHP on a Linux (LAMP) environment that runs on VMWare virtual machines administering Confluence JIRA bug and ticket system, Confluence Wiki and JetBrain TeamCity and SVN as source control for both Windows and LAMP application deployment. Provided 24/7 support for production systems. Network Administrator ITSOL, INC - North Hollywood, CA October 2009 to July 2011 DBA) Insuranceleads.com  North Hollywood California    InsuranceLeads.com has one of the largest and fastest growing networks of individual insurance agents, small, medium and large insurance sales organizations and major insurance companies.    Duties and Responsibilities:  Build, maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments. Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations. Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software and other network and system problems. Plan, coordinate and implement network security measures. Configure, monitor and maintain email, phone system and virus protection software. Monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use. Study, evaluate and recommend new technology for future implementation, in-charge of hardware and software procurements. Providing 24x7 system support. Freelance IT Consultant Tecta Associates - San Francisco, CA July 2009 to August 2009 Upgraded systems and network infrastructure. Moved from an email and web hosting company into their own servers. Scope of work includes deployment of Windows 2008 Active Directory and Exchange Server 2007 and Microsoft Office 2007 as client, firewall installation, enable DNS, DHCP, IIS, FTP, SMTP, POP3, IMAP & OWA. Upgrading of existing 30 workstations from Windows 2000 professional into XP professional and Vista. NAS and Backup Executive installation for backup and recovery. Install AutoCAD 2008 and Architectural Desktop Software, Printers and Plotters with cost recovery software re-configuration. Install MSSQL 2005 for Sepialine Argos print cost recovery software. Systems Engineer Triton Distribution Systems, Inc - Sausalito, CA April 2006 to July 2009 Sausalito California based travel and leisure data Distribution Company. Triton is pioneer in low-cost, business-to-business Internet-based travel distribution and procurement solutions. Triton provides the electronic distribution of travel inventory from airlines, car rental companies, hotels, tour and cruise operators, and other travel vendors to travel agencies and their clients on a global basis.    Duties and responsibilities;  I was in-charge of deploying production, staging and development environment based on ASP.NET web application framework and MSSQL server as a back end database. Setup configuration and support for Microsoft Visual Studio Team Foundation server and Visual Studio for development source control and application deployment purposes. In charge of production application rollout and application patch installation. Assisted the development team in troubleshooting and resolving airline host and gateways which runs on a mainframe system and check if there are connectivity issues by running XML tools to verify if the web services on the airline front end servers are up and running. I also helped the QA team to setup a performance measurement automation tools for server network and database sizing purposes. Senior Systems Engineer Abacus International Pte. Ltd - Singapore June 2002 to February 2006 Singapore based Abacus International Pte Ltd is the number one GDS (Global Distribution Systems) for airlines reservation system in Asia Pacific owned by Sabre US, Singapore Airlines and 11 other Asian Airlines with more than 20 NMCs across Asia Pacific region.  Duties and responsibilities:    Deployment and management and support for Abacus Whiz and Abacus Travel Network ProjectWeb Farm, Apps Server and Terminal Servers management and support for Abacus Travel Network and Abacus Whiz, these include server deployment, application setup and configuration, maintenance, monitoring and troubleshooting. In-charge for project implementation and support for Abacus X25 Gateway and Abacus Travel Network. Systems Engineer Abacus International Pte. Ltd - Singapore June 2001 to June 2002 Duties and Responsibilities:  Reporting to the manager of the Access Solutions. Implement Abacus Whiz X25 Gateway rollout for 21 APAC NMCs, this role includes traveling and deploying X25 Gateways to various APAC countries. Provide technical training for NMCs staff, Abacus product and infrastructure testing and certification eg. Ticket printers, VPN clients, proxy servers etc, Liaising with software vendors in resolving connectivity issues. Perform troubleshooting and gateways maintenance, X25 and ALC protocol data capturing and analysis for troubleshooting. IT Technical Support Engineer Rashid Hussain Securities Philippines September 1996 to May 2001 Makati City, Philippines  Duties and Responsibilities:  IT management, systems and network administration, technical support, backroom application support, database management, project implementations, procurement and in-charge for security and telecommunications facilities. Directly reporting to VP for Finance and Administration and the CEO Education Computer Technology Rizal Technological University Mandaluyong City Metro Manila Skills System Administrator, Linux, Active Directory, Vmware, LYNC, Cisco, VMWare Airwatch (4 years), Microsoft Exchange 2007/2010/2016 (10+ years)