Military Systems Specialist Sr. I Military <span class="hl">Systems</span> Specialist Sr. I Military System Specialist III/IV/SR - Scientific Research Corporation Denver, CO Driven and experienced Systems Integration Professional with years of multifaceted experience including expertise in software integration, VMware implementation, and network operations for private, public, and government applications. Proven understanding of high-profile technical solutions, project management, and strategic planning. Demonstrated knowledge of troubleshooting complex issues, process implementation, and customer service. Innate ability to build strong relationships with peers, colleagues, and senior management. Proud Veteran of the United States Air Force. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Military Systems Specialist Sr. I Scientific Research Corporation - Charleston, SC August 2011 to Present ?   Manage day-to-day operations of a team of five employees including routine functions, workflow delegation, and personnel reviews.   ?   Ensure proper software integration and support of the global, United States Marine Corps Intelligence Analysis System including the Global Command and Control Systems.   ?   Oversee integration, configuration and delivery of high profile and complex software programs including Solaris 10, Windows Server 2016, and Windows 10.  ?   Collaborate with government and commercial entities to build software per Information Assurance security standards.   ?   Increase security of systems through application of security technical implementation guides and information assurance vulnerability alerts in an effort to provide redundancy and keep communication fluid.   ?   Work directly with VMware tools and applications to drive infrastructure of vCenter servers, VMware vMotion capabilities, and vSphere Data Protection.   ?   Drive comprehensive document management including formatting and delivery in an effort to education Marines and other personnel on how to troubleshoot systems.     SELECT PROJECTS   ?    Successfully integrated the government and commercial base software to provide full system functionality for 2500+ windows clients and 150+ servers in the field.  Systems Analyst II Scientific Research Corporation - Charleston, SC August 2006 to August 2011 ?   Ensured proper testing of software and hardware builds for high profile Marine Corps Intelligence units.  ?   Configured and tested systems applications for Command Posts including Tactical Battle Management Core Systems, Global Command and Control Systems, and Advanced Field Artillery Tactical Data Systems.   ?   Served as team lead for directing testing plans and hardware builds for Marine Corps Intelligence Units with regard to SPAWAR contracts.   ?   Configured and tested Intelligence Analysis Systems, Global Command and Control Systems, Marine Link, Command and Control Personal Computer, and Disconnected Operations including Solaris and Windows-based servers.    SELECT PROJECTS   ?   Utilized root cause analysis to find and troubleshoot 1500+ software development issues.   ?   Tested and evaluated a wide variety of software including 10+ destructive and 50+ security based patches. Systems Administrator United States Air Force - Shaw AFB, SC September 2002 to September 2006 ?   Served as a Systems Administrator for the 609 Air Communication Squadron for Shaw AFB Training Air Operations Center.   ?   Drove the building and implementation of comprehensive GCCS servers for the Center.   ?   Ensured proper systems checks on multiple GCCS servers to better streamline operations.   ?   Provided world-class support for 120 clients at the CENTAF Primary Training Air Operations Center.   ?   Served deployment of 132 days for Combined Air Operations Center - Al Udeid Air Base, Qatar to support Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom, and the Joint Task-Force of Africa, ensuring global command and control systems were accessible for 100+ coalition partners.   ?   Collaborated with high functioning 14-person team under presidential order to plan and build CSD domain at the Combined Air Operations Center including building and maintaining 2 C2PC servers as well as a 35 -client suite.  Education BACHELOR'S DEGREE in Information Technology Southern New Hampshire University - Denver, CO Present Skills Linux, Process management, Unix, Software integration, Software development, Systems administration, Vmware, Problem solving, Integration, Customer service, Mentoring, Training, Relationship management, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Comptia, Migration, Pc Support, Tech Support Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/shane-kinyon-23583a4a/ Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E-4 Certifications/Licenses Security+ July 2012 to July 2021 Additional Information TECHNOLOGY PROFILE - Windows 10 | Windows 7 | Windows XP | Windows Server 2016 | Windows Server 2012 | Red Hat Linux | Truster Solaris 10/11 | VMWare | vCenter Server V6.5 | VMware v Center Server V6.0 | VMware vSphere Client | Active Directory | Agile Server | ACAS | Macrium | Putty | Storix | AFIS | Agile Client | Global Command and Control Systems (GCCS) | Joint Tactical COP Workstation | Command and Control PC | GCCS-J 6.0.0.0 | GCCS-J 4.3.0.0 | GCCS-J 4.1.1.1 | GCCS-J 4.0 | GCCS-I3 4.7.6.5