Lead Systems Administrator Lead <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Baltimore, MD Experienced Systems Administrator with a background in Information Security and IT Systems Management with over 20 years of experience spanning the IT industry. Additionally skilled as a Web Stack Software Engineer with a successful track record of developing software for web and mobile platforms. Seeking new Systems Administration and Security problems to solve. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Systems Administrator A Call Center - Contact for Company - Cockeysville, MD February 2017 to Present - Provides front-line help desk support to staff identify, diagnose and resolve PC related problems and concierge support to leadership/C-suite  - Maintains mixed server environment, workstations, telephony, printers and faxes  - Supports and maintains networking stack, VOIP hardware and security systems  - Administrates Amazon Cloud, MS Azure, Office365 and centrally managed systems throughout the enterprise.  - Provisions and manages all user accounts  - Maintains and ensures continued PCI and NIST compliance  - Augments internal IT policies, incident response and disaster recovery plans as needed  - Coordinates with vendors to maintain all aspects of LAN/WAN/PBX environment IT Instructor Baltimore City Community College - Baltimore, MD November 2016 to Present - Lectures class on hardware, installation, programming, maintenance, networking, routing, troubleshooting and repair of computers and other IT equipment, following outline, handouts, hands on experience, internship, job shadowing and using visual aids.  - Administers written and practice drills, exams and writes conference reports.  - Evaluates and grades students' classwork, lab work, assignments and papers.  - Collaborates with program chair to develop curriculum. Systems Administrator Continental Technologies, Inc. - Hunt Valley, MD January 2017 to February 2017 System Administrator working on contracts for clients in the Baltimore Maryland area. Systems Administrator Baltimore Technology Group, LLC - White Marsh, MD August 2015 to August 2016 - Provided level 3 support resolving on-site and off-site repairs of servers, workstations, virtual environments, and other IT related hardware/software issues.   - Maintained and configured Active Directory, Group Policy, and Terminal Services.   - Provided technical services and support at the network level: WAN, LAN and VPN connectivity, routers, firewalls, and security.   - Implemented and supported disaster recovery solutions.  - Solved technical issues involving Microsoft's core business applications. Lead Systems and Security Administrator E-ISG Asset Intelligence - Baltimore, MD February 2015 to July 2015 - Developed and implemented NIST compliant IT security policy.  - Implemented disaster recovery and critical backup solutions.   - Installed and deployed web and database servers in both bare metal and virtual environments  - Secured and monitored network traffic using industry standard IDS tools.   - Managed and provisioned domains, domain controllers, computers and users via Active Directory.   - Provided technical support to leadership, staff members and external clientele. Independent Contractor Freelance - Chicago, IL October 2013 to December 2014 - Developed and maintained relationships with clients.  - Provided level 1-2 technical support to residential and small business clients.  - Built and deployed home and small office servers.  - Built wired and wireless networks for residential clients.  - Installed home entertainment systems.  - Taught users how to use workstations, tablets, and phones. Senior Engineer, Advanced R&D WMS Gaming - Chicago, IL January 2009 to October 2013 - Inventor of 7 U.S. patents/applications regarding mobile device communication.  - Functioned as departmental liaison supporting R&D, marketing, game development and quality assurance teams.  - Managed strategic sourcing of vendors and procurement/supply chain of equipment.  - Designed, managed and administrated R&D hardware lab and customer technology showrooms.  - Planned and executed the logistics of presence at customer demos and trade shows.  - Developed mobile software using AS3, Flash, HTML5, CSS3, PHP and JavaScript for Android and iOS platforms.  - Provided technical support to the R&D department staff. Technical User Interface Artist Midway Games - Chicago, IL July 2007 to October 2008 - Created the user interaction model, screen flows, information architecture and programming logic used in driving the user interfaces in AAA title console games.  - Published titles: "NBA Ballers: Chosen One" (Xbox360 and PS3), "Blitz The League II" (Xbox360 and PS3) and "TNA Wrestling" (Wii). Software Developer Stats LLC - Northbrook, IL January 2006 to July 2007 - Subject matter expert and principal developer on STATSPASS, a business-critical data application using ASP, HTML, XSL and Oracle.  - Developed PL/SQL and Java applications in Oracle to port data to text, RAW, CSV and XML formats.   - Migrated legacy 1032 programs to Oracle implementing new rules post NHL lockout. Software Developer Allstate Insurance Company - Northbrook, IL June 2003 to October 2005 - Developed robust and secure web application enabling employees to donate to charities during company-wide giving campaign. Managed the project, client relationship and development from initial request thru implementation.   - Migrated payroll applications from legacy VB with DB2 and SQL data back-ends to SAP, C#, ASP.NET, and XML resulting in 7% savings in operating costs.  - Maintained internal human resource data ensuring Sarbanes-Oxley compliance.  - Provisioned and administrated users in Active Directory. Lead Systems Administrator Hampton University - Hampton, VA January 2000 to December 2002 - Managed the end-to-end daily operations and maintenance of 3 student and faculty labs.   - Configured, deployed and maintained servers, workstations and printers.   - Created and implemented data backup solutions.   - Provided technical support to the staff and students. Help Desk Technician Hampton University - Hampton, VA September 1998 to September 1999 - Coached end users and provided technical support to students and staff in the Advanced Technology Lab. Technician A Better Laser Service - Baltimore, MD April 1997 to May 1998 - Re-manufactured toner cartridges for multiple printer models.   - Serviced and repaired HP, Cannon and Brother model printers. Education Master of Information Systems Management and Information Security Keller Graduate School of Management - Chicago, IL May 2011 Bachelor of Science in Computer Sciences Hampton University - Hampton, VA May 2003 Skills Microsoft Core Business Platforms and Applications, Systems Administration, Nework Admninistration, Information Security, VMWare Administration, Web/Mobile Software Developement, Logistics and Planning, Strategic Sourcing, (10+ years), Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin, System Administrator, Linux Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/japerk Certifications/Licenses Certified SonicWALL Security Administrator November 2015 to November 2017 Dell, 814D-DAC1-D875-454B Patents Methods of Transferring Funds in a Cashless Wagering System (#US20140323206) http://www.freepatentsonline.com/y2014/0323206.html 2014-04 A method for depositing funds associated with a wagering game ticket in a player account via a mobile device is described herein. ...can include receiving an image of a wagering game ticket, ... a player account, transmitting to ... receiving from ... ticketing server, ... depositing, in the player account.... Gaming System with Privacy Features (#US20140162762) 2014-06 A wagering game system includes a peripheral device with a peripheral device display and at least one processor configured to execute at least one application to display information on the peripheral device display. Using Coded Identifiers for Adaptive Gaming (#US20130130779) 2013-05 A wagering game system and its operations are described herein. ...can include initiating a wagering game system session ... scanning a coded identifier during the wagering session ... providing gaming rewards ... adding funds, unlocking content... Using Personal Devices to Connect Network-limited Wagering Game Machines (#US 20140370971 A1) http://appft1.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO1&Sect2=HITOFF&d=PG01&p=1&u=/netahtml/PTO/srchnum.html&r=1&f=G&l=50&s1=20140370971.PGNR. 2014-07 Communications capability between two wagering game machines is provided using personal devices of users of the wagering game machines. At least one of the wagering game machines is a network-limited wagering game machine that is not communicably coupled to a casino operator's network. A first user communicably couples a personal device such as a mobile phone to a wagering game machine and a second user communicably couples a personal device to a wagering game machine. The two wagering game machines communicate using a communication path formed by the two personal devices and a network such as a mobile phone network communicably coupling the two personal devices.