Self-Employed Self-Employed Self-Employed - Self-Employed Aurora, CO IT Professional with over 10 years of experience in System Administration and IT Support. Excellent communication with the ability to troubleshoot and resolve complex problems. A self-motivated individual with leadership and organizational skills looking for the right company. Work Experience Self-Employed Self-Employed November 2018 to Present Ideal Practice Solutions - Senior Information Technology Specialist    Senior Technology Specialist for Ideal Practice Solutions. An IT & Computer Networking company specializing in dentistry. Senior IT Consultant and Business Advisor with over 15 years of experience. Extensive background in Managed IT Service, IT Support Systems, Business Phone Systems, A/V Systems, Security Systems. Systems Administrator / Senior Desktop Engineer Trade - Centennial, CO October 2015 to November 2018 • Recommends and leads efforts for security and continuous improvement of desktop environment (Windows\Mac)  • Building, configuring, upgrading and troubleshooting of physical and virtual Windows servers (VMWare VSphere)  • Investigating, resolving and closing reported PC problems and applications through our ticketing system (Jira\Remedy9\Service Now)  • Supporting users in the use of computer equipment by providing necessary training and advice  • Ensures timely Security updates and Patching of Endpoints and Servers (KACE 1K System Management)  • Maintaining Network-based printers, installing print drivers, managing printer queues and print jobs  • Leads effort for continuous improvement of operational operations  • Troubleshoots networks, systems and applications problems to identify and correct malfunctions and other operational difficulties  • Implements network security, including Symantec (SEP\PGP), Palo Alto Traps, managing host security, file permissions and file system integrity.  • Physical security administration, manages security card keys and photo ID badges  • Provides on-going training to other Technical Service Specialists  • Prepares and responds to internal and external audit requests (ISO 27001) Systems Administrator / Desktop Support Engineer Revenue Enterprises - Aurora, CO March 2015 to October 2015 • Ensure a high level of customer service while completing tasks in a timely fashion.  • Administers systems and servers related to corporate LAN and WAN.  • Columbia Ultimate Business Systems (CUBS) Administration (Debt Collection System)  • Manage Windows Server Update Services (WSUS).  • Active Directory, Group Policy, DNS, DHCP  • Installation, repair and maintenance of servers, PC's, thin clients and laptops. Resolved hardware and software issues for all clients  • Perform hands-on support, including installing and upgrading software, implementing file backups, and configuring systems and applications.  • Request access from various clients for employees  • Month End Process System / Network Administrator Hercules Industries - Denver, CO September 2006 to July 2014 • Ensures a high level of customer service to all branches and departments of the company while clearing tickets in an appropriate, timely manner.  • Project Management and Implementation of 8 new commercial divisions: including: ISP, VoIP, Firewall, routers and configuration of all client/server frameworks.  • Administers systems and servers related to corporate LAN and WAN (e.g. email systems, accounts, workstation ID, IP assignments, security, antivirus, spyware, etc.) for the purpose of ensuring availability of service to authorized users.  • Maintains network operations and software applications (e.g. servers (file, print, application, WEB, database, etc.), operating systems, companywide server backups, routine maintenance) for the purpose of ensuring efficient operations.  • Evaluates network hardware and software requirements and capabilities and make recommendations  • Installation, repair and maintenance of servers, PC's, thin clients and laptops. Resolved hardware and software issues for all clients  • Support The IBM System I Printers and Workstations, Work Management, Backups and System Configuration.  • Negotiates and contracts with consultants, technical personnel and vender for service and products.  • Prepares and maintains documentation of network configuration and cabling layouts. Education Katella High School - Anaheim, CA 1996 Skills Dns, Security, Dhcp, Server administration, Help desk management, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator