Network Administrator Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Engineer Manchester, IA Work Experience Network Administrator McCoy Group - Dubuque, IA July 2019 to Present Administer network elements on the corporate lan/wan. This includes firewalls, switches, servers, and voip telephony system. Network Engineer MCI - Cedar Rapids, IA 2005 to June 2019 Responsible for the IPCom Voice Over IP product support and network. Lead engineer for the Oracle (AcmePacket) and Genband Session Border controllers - their installation, configuration, documentation, troubleshooting, and maintenance. Experience in firewall policies, router/switch configurations, and site builds. Hardware vendors include Oracle (AcmePacket), Ribbon(Genband), Juniper, Cisco, Broadsoft, UNIX, and Windows. Network Engineer MCI/Worldcom - Cedar Rapids, IA 2000 to 2005 Network team. Responsible for connectivity of 17 sites worldwide on the ISN. Install, upgrade, document, and troubleshoot network equipment such as routers, switches, firewall, sbc's, terminal servers, csu/dsu's, sniffers, and AIX-based alarming devices. On call every 4th week. Work scheduled maintenances at night and respond to pages/outages. Vendors of hardware include Cisco, Nortel, Juniper, AcmePacket, Larscom, DEC, and Network Associates. Systems Analyst AEGON - Cedar Rapids, IA 1999 to 2000 Member of Server team. Maintained, installed, troubleshot over 200 NT 4.0 servers and 1 Netware server. On call 75% of time. Responsible for back-ups. Systems Engineer Pomeroy Computer Resources - Hiawatha, IA 1997 to 1999 LAN administration for key accounts. Hardware and software installation, troubleshooting, and repair for clients across Iowa. Lead contractor for ACT and Taylor Ball. Traveled to many accounts outside of Cedar Rapids. Hardware and software support for PC's, servers, printers, and network devices. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Upper Iowa University - Cedar Rapids, IA 2016 to July 2019 Associates Degree in Business Kirkwood Community College - Cedar Rapids, IA 2016 Mathematics University of Northern Iowa - Cedar Falls, IA 1986 to 1987 Skills Cisco (10+ years), database (3 years), documentation (10+ years), GIS (Less than 1 year), Juniper (10+ years), leadership skills (Less than 1 year), Netscreen (3 years), networking (3 years), Oracle (10+ years), Python (Less than 1 year), Scripting (Less than 1 year), Training (3 years), UNIX (10+ years), Wireshark (Less than 1 year), VPN, Technical Support, Windows, Microsoft Office, Customer Service Additional Information Highlights of Qualifications  Professional with excellent strategic and technical skills - over 20 years of experience.  Proven success in cross-functional roles, including troubleshooting, installation, training, and documentation skills.  Exceptional leadership skills, thriving on the challenge of multiple concurrent responsibilities and endeavors.    Technical Skills  Operating Systems: UNIX, Windows, JunOS, GIS, Oracle(AcmePacket), CiscoOS    Networking: Cisco, Oracle, Juniper, Netscreen, Wireshark    Other: Scripting in UNIX, Python, Windows, and C+. Database experience. Hardware experience (troubleshooting/installation/configuration).