Field Service Representative Field Service Representative Field Service Representative for SalientCRGT OCONUS Satellite Beach, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Field Service Representative Salient CRGT January 2017 to Present January 2018 – Present: Special Operations Support Systems (SOSS) division. Performing all manner of things as standby FSR supporting DCATS SATCOM systems in a theater “floater” FSR role. Currently being utilized primarily and engaged as a major site “one deep” Cine Massive AV system(s) FSR – and often utilized as the “SME/floater” whereby performing where and when required in undisclosed, forward based far east locations supporting the client in a combined direct action coalition operations/intelligence community environment.  Detailed and concurrent job description(s) along with responsibilities available upon request. FSR / Systems tech/ Leidos - mutiple October 2016 to December 2017 October 2016 – December 2017: Performed as on site lead/C4I Field Technician providing Tier I and Tier II support to customers with hardware, software, and general application problems. Completed Windows 10 OS Transition on three secure networks conducting direct first line contact resolving all types of system related issues using telephone assistance, Active Directory, MS System Center 2012 R2 Service Management Console, onsite visits supporting concurrent operations of 3 separate locations (4 SCIFS) for demanding customers in Northern Italy. Performed all manners of deliberate touch hardware maintenance and proactive system site administration of systems and network equipment used in the C5ISR IC centric environment. Applied on-site and remote services diagnostics; monitoring, installs, corrected and incorporates new releases, updates, or other changes to COTS hardware and software to ensure compliance on 3 IC locations.    May 2016 to Oct 2016: Intelligence Electronic Warfare Tactical Proficiency Training (IEWTPT) system maintainer-intelligence specialist, performing multiple roles as prime maintainer-integrator, prime system administrator, appointed IASO, and site Auditor ensuring system availability and compliance to include but not limited to: critical scheduled system updates, security upgrades, Patches, IAVAs, technical bulletins and other IA program directed update activities focused on system hardening, ACAS/Nessus administration - network traffic monitoring - system usage and audit logs to ensure compliance with IA policies, account roles along with all other types of direct system support to the functional components to the fielded Intelligence and Electronic Warfare Tactical Proficiency Trainer (IEWTPT) system @ two locations on three networks. (NIPR/SIPR/JWICS).    Oct 2015 – May 2016 - Senior Field Service Representative National Training Center from October 2015 to May 2016 as CPOF SME/SFSR. Provided guidance, on site assistance, over-the-shoulder (OTS) system training, systems maintenance, IA support, operation, and configuration training to users, maintainers, System Administrators, and Government representatives in support of tactical command and control systems, sub- systems hardware and software and ancillary equipment. He performed routine system maintenance and administrative functions, including system configuration and modifications, adding, removing, and replacing hardware and software items, system IAVA/STIG updates, backups, field contact mitigating system risk and operational downtime, database administration, deliberate maintenance, and system user access control.     May 2014 to October 2015: Production Systems Test Technician I/Production Systems Repair Technician II, RMA Tech, for CONTEC DTx, at Melbourne Airport, FL, Mr. Wylie performed major rework, repair and refurbishment of returned servers (over 300 models) in a FPY exacting standards production environment. He was results-oriented and capable of direct customer interface. Mr. Wylie assembled, repaired, and upgraded specialty server systems used by customers in the medical testing-examination, air transport security screening (DHS), and food quality assurance industries. He assessed, mitigated, and resolved hardware and software machine related problems, mentored, and assisted production systems assemblers using industry forensic skill set, assisted engineers in review of design solution proposals and testing. He performed repairs, upgrades on suspect failed specialty server equipment normally returned by client field technicians. In this role, he conformed to TSA, FDA, HLS, and HIPAA regulations and specifications. He was productive in concurrent production maintenance tasks in an ISO: 9001, 2008 and 13485 environment. Production Systems Test Technician I/Production Systems Repair Technician Contec DTx - Melbourne, FL May 2014 to October 2015 for CONTEC DTx, at Melbourne Airport, FL, from May 2014 to October 2015, Mr. Wylie performed major rework, repair and refurbishment of returned servers (over 300 models) in a FPY exacting standards production environment. He was results-oriented and capable of direct customer interface. Mr. Wylie assembled, repaired, and upgraded specialty server systems used by customers in the medical testing-examination, air transport security screening (DHS), and food quality assurance industries. He assessed, mitigated, and resolved hardware and software machine related problems, mentored, and assisted production systems assemblers using industry forensic skill set, assisted engineers in review of design solution proposals and testing. He performed repairs, upgrades on suspect failed specialty server equipment normally returned by client field technicians. In this role, he conformed to TSA, FDA, HLS, and HIPAA regulations and specifications. He was productive in concurrent production maintenance tasks in an ISO: 9001, 2008 and 13485 environment. Regional Systems Engineer/Team Lead Operation Enduring Freedom, PEO IEWS PM NV/RSTA 2012 to 2014 NV/RSTA-Night Vision/Reconnaissance, Surveillance, and Target Acquisition FSR/Installer/maintainer, Base Expeditionary Targeting and Surveillance System-Combined (BETSS-C). This s a totally integrated SR sensor integration package that also includes aerostats. It was a CENTCOM top 5 priority. BETSS-C Surveillance and Protection Systems, (RAID, Cerberus, TASS Annunciators, Unattended Ground Sensors (BIAS), Thermal Imagery, LRTI/FLIR, Ground Surveillance Radar, Closed Circuit Television, Security Command and Control Systems-FP centric are still considered state of the art. Afghanistan, from 2012 to 2014, Mr. Wylie was a 24/7 Surveillance Sensor Systems Installation Team Lead and Force Protection Systems / Entry Control Point SME coordinated with HQs, Troops in field, Department of State, and other support organizations. As a Regional FSR/Maintainer, he retained focus in dangerous situations, employed technical representative people and network deployment skills, performing onsite unique front-end sensor appliance hardware/software/microwave and wireless system configurations. Mr. Wylie worked collaboratively with clients, team members, security implementation consultants, DOD, SOFs, and DOS resources across theater. He trained operators and maintained documentation for government clients and help desk. Mr. Wylie assisted first two initial 2.0 version upgrades of ECP Systems. At peak of operations, area of responsibility for service was up to 80 disparate locations. His additional accomplishments include selection as the Integration Lab Sustainment Engineer assignment in Kandahar, refurbishing or resetting (IMA level) systems preparing complete sensor-surveillance systems and kits for re-deployment. Senior Systems Engineer / Program Manager Operation Enduring Freedom - MacDill AFB, FL 2010 to 2012 Afghanistan, and USCENTCOM, J-2 OS, MacDill AFB, FL, from 2010 to 2012, Mr. Wylie first, while@HQ USCENTCOM , organized procured IT material for OCONUS build, identified shortages, prepared shipment - monitored movement to delivery, then went forward to be responsible for IT installation and turnover of an $8 million C5I2 Five Eyes intelligence facility within budget and compressed time constraints. He interacted with US, NATO officers and local nationals. Mr. Wylie spearheaded procurement-logistical and IT installation planning, then moved forward supervising while directly interacting with installation teams while entertaining client refinements, change management, local material identification to final completion of project. He worked with lead design engineers and integration counterparts. He supported Central Command project objectives and requirements, provided timely logistic solutions, serving as prime focal point for all phases of project completion to SCIF activation incorporating FMC status of 11 separate secure networks. Notable contributions include the ISAF IJC Sensitive Compartmentalized Intelligence Facility at NKIA, Afghanistan and later while back at MacDill he provided direct stakeholder support to NRO software developers for the CENTCOM JIOC piece of the Defense Intelligence Enterprise (DI2E) performing as CENTCOM SME providing Joint Data Layer (JDL) support testing w/DCGS family of systems emphasizing focus on in theater assets for global IOT&E: Ref: The DI2E story Data Systems Field Engineer/IW Technician/ Systems Administrator for Genesis Project Anbar Province Iraq 2004 to 2010 and Eastern Amazon Basin area Colombia, from 2004 to 2010, Mr. Wylie was embedded with Radio Battalion Marines and other Army organizations in Iraq. He moved, deactivated and opened SIGINT facilities and established and maintained multiple SIGINT sites in all provinces. He retrograded and managed collection sites and laterally transferred assets to incoming Army units and other Army supported activities. Mr. Wylie assisted Intelligence and Security Command efforts throughout Iraq and U.S. Embassy Bogota Colombia with all phases of SIGINT site support, including a major fixed-site collection facility build and a site deactivation with retrograde of assets, recovery of equipment, and turnover of facility. During this time, he was designated as SOUTHCOM SSR. He managed IT equipment, SATCOM Ground stations, a commercial power generation stable and potable water system supporting an entire Amazon basin fire base. He coordinated and sustained diesel fuel deliveries via special air contracted transport (vintage DC-3s). Mr. Wylie's highlights included three Northrup Grumman contractors recovered, repatriated after six years of guerilla captivity and hosting visiting Army survey teams, coordinating with supporting organizations such as Embassy, State Department, OGAs and Colombian military to ensure all operational and contract and security requirements were met or exceeded. Data Systems Field Engineer/Technician/ Systems Administrator U.S. Army Material Command Relocation Project - Fort Belvoir, VA 2003 to 2004 Arlington to Fort Belvoir, VA, from 2003 to 2004, Mr. Wylie was a member on the C4 infrastructure build and relocation effort. He performed as a technical lead for the Project Manager, coordinating C4 movement and infrastructure build resolving technical issues with NCA and command headquarters staff during a critical period of national challenge. Mr. Wylie worked with segment leaders on architectural goals and design concepts. He discussed zoning laws, fire regulations, emergency egress (rally points/other plans), and building codes with healthcare and facility monitoring inspection agencies and verified construction documentation for QA and best practice standards. Mr. Wylie consulted with clients on requirements. He connected with all other IT vendors/contractors and incorporated input. He handled the vast majority of high visibility system trouble calls and other user training related anomalies during the first critical weeks after implementation and movement exacerbated by exposing clients to a new client desktop OS (XP). Program Manager/Lead System & MIDB Database Administrator/Lead Network Systems Engineer U.S. Intelligence and Security Command - Fort Belvoir, VA 2002 to 2003 Fort Belvoir, VA, from 2002 to 2003, Mr. Wylie (GCCS-J/I3) serviced and supported Intelligence Community - First Information Operations Command, National Ground Intelligence Center, Defense Intelligence Agency, and National Security Agency. He performed as the Intelligence Operations Directorate's technical lead/primary advisor for acquisition to long-term systems and network infrastructure planning and architecture support. He administered sunscreen firewalls and other unique secure gateway appliances while maintaining worldwide accounts and other secure router based security architectures and specialty appliance mechanisms. Mr. Wylie assured uninterrupted worldwide service. He introduced and fused the first navy based signals intelligence hardware into ground centric collection and distribution networks. He helped pioneer additional operational picture processes and routines supporting emerging national interest and domain awareness technologies among new federal players and support agencies. Engineer/ Systems Administrator U.S. Army South (USARSO) - Fort Buchanan, PR 1999 to 2002 Mr. Wylie operated, administered, and maintained command/control systems (GCCS-J/GCCS-A) per NMCC directives and provided extensive superlative technical support to regional personnel during planning, exercises, and deliberate events. He ensured Operations Center was 100% fully mission capable, 24/7, and was concurrently able to support training, applications, and system engagement for USARSO G-3/470 MI G-2 staff for visiting instructors. Education MS in Systems Engineering and Management George Washington University - Washington, DC 2014 MS in Telecommunications Systems Management National University - San Diego, CA 1998 BA in Sociology Hawaii Pacific College Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Gysgt Certifications/Licenses TS/SCI clearance Additional Information David Wylie  703 732 1146 (text only please), Security Clearance TS/SCI Current/Active        Mr. Wylie, is a high energy, dynamic, flexible, direct, innovative, network and SA systems problem-solving professional. One who can hit the ground running, assess what needs to be done, get it done while initiating the most efficient moves for maintainability and reliability. David has excelled in multiple roles in most forms of installations, with Tier I/II/III support activities directly engaged supporting major system field support operations, specializing in network and hardware installation, maintenance, technical control, ISR satellite based collection systems, with onsite and remote Help Desk operations, network systems security upgrades, component level repair, back-end and front end site establishment and sustainment. Fluent in Spanish.    EXPERTISE:  • Intelligence and Command and Control Systems Engineering  • Systems employment and collection installation operations (SIGINT/SATCOM)  • Network centric problem resolution, installation and maintenance  • System lifecycle management activities - repair/maintenance/procurement  • Network hardware installation, Network system design, improvement and employment  • Secure Intelligence Facility Design and T-SCIF build/certification - accreditation/de-activation  • IT Component Repair  • System Administration, system employment, program management - facilitator - project expeditor  • Joint Service and Army Command and Control Systems (C5ISR)    Certifications: Hard copy proof of the following Certificates can be presented upon demand: CTS – Certified Technical Specialist, CompTIA Security+ CE / MCP- MS Windows 7 Configuration 70-680, / IAT II appointee , / Systems Engineering Cert - George Washington University School of Engineering, / Microsoft Windows 2000 Network & Operating System Essentials, / Implementing Microsoft Windows 2000 Professional Server, Implementing & Administering MS Windows 2000 Directories Service, Microsoft NT 4.0 System Administration, Systems Administrator Security / Network Manager Security, / Advanced GCCS-J Administration, / JOPES Basic Operator, / Space Based Blue Force Tracking (GBRAT-37), / Implementing Advanced Help Desk-Computer Associates, / GCCS-A Operator / GCCS-A Systems Administration, / A+ Certification / Banyan Vines Gateway Specialist, / Banyan Vines Advanced Network Administration & Planning, Informix Database Administration / TCO System Administration, JDIS System Administration / Advanced Networking Techniques, / SOF IRIS Operator / IAS System Administration, / Trojan Spirit Satellite Terminal Operator & Maintenance Technician, / Intro to TCP/IP & Cisco Routers / JMCIS/INTEL System Administration, / MEF IAS Maintenance- Systems Administration, / UNIX Systems Administration / Network Control Specialist, / Computer Security Specialist / Small Computer Systems Specialist, /IBM OS 360 COBOL Programming, / Naval Aviation Organization Maintenance Work Center Supervisors Management / Aviation Electricians Mate, / USMC Small Unit Leader / Navy - Marine Parachutist /U.S. Army Airborne /U.S. Navy Diver /Amphibious Reconnaissance w Gold Seal/ Reconnaissance Indoctrination Program / Sergeant Instructor - Drill Sergeant - OCS/ Unit Diary Clerk /Personnel Administration/ The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People / DAA CB Training /ECP Legacy and Increment 2 S FSR / CPOF Maintainer / CPOF Operator.    CITIZENSHIP: U.S. Citizen    Clearance: TS/SCI Current/Active good till 2024. (Passport good till 2029)      