E-4/Corporal E-4/Corporal E-4/Corporal Work Experience E-4/Corporal United States Marine Corps May 2015 to May 2019 Technical Instructor / Team Lead - Modernization Training Cell United States Marine Corps April 2018 to January 2019 Provided leadership, insight, and subject matter expertise in systems and security. Instructed  classes of 22 students for courses on Security Center utilizing Red Hat Linux, Host Based  Security System (HBSS), Virtualization including vSAN, and Security Center, and Server  Administration. 300+ students yearly, totaling over 1200 hours of instruction delivered.  • Developed a Server Administration course that teaches students how to configure  Domain Controllers, DNS, DHCP, WSUS, WDS, LAPS, ESXi, and common  administrative tasks.  • Developed an Advanced Administration and Automative Solutions course that teaches  students the basics of Powershell and the fundamentals of programming as a whole  • Maintained and optimized a virtual environment that provisions a virtual environment  for each student.  • Automated the deployment of virtual environments with custom-made Powershell  scripts that ensured each student's environment was deployed quickly and correctly. Systems Team Lead - Crisis Response Africa United States Marine Corps January 2017 to March 2018 Served as the Systems Team Lead in support of Crisis Response Africa (CRAF) while providing leadership and subject matter expertise. Designed, engineered, analyzed, and  defended enterprise level classified, and unclassified, tactical communication networks. Lead  a team responsible for the installation, operation, maintenance, and optimization of the network.  • Managed a 10 man team on a network spanning 3 continents which contained over  1000 workstations and 500 clients.  • Built, managed, and administrated 2 enclaves containing over 20 virtual machines  each, which supported hundreds of users and was utilized in critical operations.  • Managed the help desk that completed more than 1500 trouble tickets which ensured  that critical command and control capabilities were readily available.  • Maintained full accountability of over $5M worth of communications equipment Systems Administrator United States Marine Corps October 2016 to January 2017 Responsible for the construction and administration of a network utilized by hundreds of users across multiple sites throughout Camp Lejeune.  • Managed and created hundreds of user accounts and 30 virtual machines split across  multiple networks.  • Increased efficiency by automating common tasks utilizing Powershell scripts which saved dozens of work hours and ensured tasks were accomplished correctly. Help Desk (IT Support) United States Marine Corps May 2016 to October 2016 Responsible for providing basic help desk functionality and IT support for 8 th Communications  Battalion.  • Researched and resolved issues/inquiries daily.  • Escalated issues to the proper help desk associate when necessary and followed up  on any escalated issues, all within a timely manner.  • Communicated thoroughly with client representatives and customers, enabling  effective information exchange and efficient process management.  • Documented all inquiry activities in the appropriate reporting system. Marine Corps Training United States Marine Corps May 2015 to May 2016 Received basic training at the Marine Corps Recruit Depot in San Diego and basic combat training at Camp Pendleton. After that, attended the Tactical Switching Operator school in 29 Palms to learn basic telephony followed by attending the Cyber Network Operator school to learn basic routing and switching, systems installation and administration, and the creation of virtual environments utilizing vSphere. Education BA Philosophy Purdue University 2009 to 2014 Microsoft Software & Systems Academy