Technology Infrastructure Director Technology Infrastructure Director San Juan, PR Successful Information Technology professional with extensive experience in cross-platform networking, administration and support for information system. Expertise in process optimization, analysis and troubleshooting of network performance. Strong hands on technical knowledge on system design, contingency planning and IT risk assessment. Proven ability to lead and motivate project teams to ensure success. Approaches to facilitate the delivery of high quality solutions through Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) framework. Plays an active role in delivering global project commitments, leading advancements in major technology areas, collaborating across partner organizations and/or leading systems integrations. Fully bilingual: Full management of languages, English and Spanish (speak, read, write and translate). US Citizen. Work Experience Technology Infrastructure Director Sacred Heart University - San Juan, PR December 2018 to Present Sr. Systems Administrator MMM Holdings LLC - San Juan, PR March 2016 to Present Participate in key process improvements as they relate to the IT Operations environment. Collaborate with server administrator, network security, business application, and database administration group to ensure availability of corporate systems to meet business demands. Implement policies, procedures, and technologies to ensure proper Incident, Problem, Change and Release Management activities are performed. Recommend and execute modifications to systems environment in order to improve efficiency, reliability, and performance and provide guidance and/or instruction to junior staff members. IT Systems Administrator MMM Holdings LLC - San Juan, PR November 2011 to February 2016 Incident and problem management, troubleshoot network and connectivity issues. Acting role as Problem Manager, alignment and evangelization of corporate wide initiatives to improve operational standards and efficiencies. Ensure successful continuous operation of complex infrastructure in secure facility by implementing processes and procedures defined within team. Collaborate with other functional teams to troubleshoot complex support issues, identify root causes and develop mitigation options. Daily tasks include monitoring applications, deploying patches within change control process, metrics and status reporting, disaster recovery planning, maintaining support and build documentation, resolving application errors and communicating with Tier-1 and business stakeholders. Server Administrator Telecommunications Regulatory Board of P.R. - San Juan, PR August 2008 to October 2011 Provide system administration blade servers, Backup Exec/Netbackup maintenance and firewall Fortinet administration. Technical assistance in software and hardware to end-users. Troubleshoot and resolve hardware and software issues including PC’s, laptops, printers, and others. Monitors performance of on-line systems utilizing software support tools to complete all scheduled jobs in a timely manner. Monitor, maintain and support all network devices connectivity including switches, hubs, access point, point to point line’s (T1 circuits), VoIP and others networking devices. Identify problems and/or issues severity and scaled them to the correspondence team to ensure proper resolution in a timely manner. Troubleshoot and resolve network issues including LAN and wireless connectivity. Design and implementation of Microsoft Windows 2003/2008 Active Directory and Microsoft ISA Server. Design and implementation of DNS, WINS, DHCP, RAS, IAS, Software Update Services Servers (SUS), domain security, organizational units, replication, print servers, ISA Arrays, content filtering using Websense and ISA Internet access policies. Other tasks related to the position included routers and switches management, SNA Servers, Host Integration Servers, SQL Servers, management of different Storage Area Network (SAN) from IBM / HP, capacity planning and analysis for new hardware and new applications among others. Technology Support Specialist First Bank of Puerto Rico - San Juan, PR October 2004 to July 2008 Provide technical assistance in software and hardware to end – users. System Administration servers and Omniback HP System Back-up. Maintenance, implementation and configuration of Xerox and RICOH printer copiers over the network. Provide support for approximately 3,000 end users in over a 200 server environment. System servers lifecycle management (spec, install, configure, support, enhance, automate), maximizing systems available and performance, providing solutions to meet or exceed the needs of the engineering client community. Capacity planning, resolving client issues, patch management, standards compliance, problem troubleshooting leading to root-cause analysis and long-term fix, participation in global infrastructure projects, plus other Systems Administrator activities. Identify problems and/or issues severity and scaled them to the correspondence team to ensure proper resolution in a timely manner. Troubleshoot and resolve hardware issues including hard drive failure, memory upgrade/replacement, and external drives functionality. Configure and install networked and local printers. Network Technician First Bank of Puerto Rico - San Juan, PR October 2002 to September 2004 Provided support and monitor Cisco and Nortel switch/routers on a T1 circuit between corporate headquarters and remote locations. Responsible for a geographically distributed data center environment provided ATM services across several countries including, British Islands, Virgin Islands, United States and Puerto Rico. Direct support to Total System System (main system that controls the entire network based in Atlanta). Provide assistance concerning the use of computer hardware and software, including printing, document scanning, e-mail, operating systems, servers and mainframe operations. Education MBA in Technology Management University of Phoenix - San Juan, PR 2006 to 2007 BBA in Information System University of Puerto Rico - Rio Piedras, PR 1999 to 2004 Skills MCSE Server Administrator 2012, (In Progress) CCENT/CCNA (In Progress) Microsoft SQL 2008 Microsoft SharePoint Designer 2007 Web Intelligence (Business Objects XI R2) Windows Vista Development ISA Server 2006 Cisco Unified Computing System IBM WebSphere Application Server ND V.8.0 COMPUTER Programming Languages SKILLS Proficient in HTML, Microsoft Visual Basic/.NET, C++ and Shell Scripting Database/Platforms & Software’s Database: Oracle, DB2, Microsoft SQL Server and Microsoft Access Platforms: Mac OS X, Microsoft Windows XP, Vista and 7. Windows 2003 and 2008 servers. Microsoft Project, Microsoft Exchange 2007, Microsoft Internet Security and Acceleration (ISA) Server, CA Workload Automation, Spectum/Scom Monitoring System, IBM Datastage, Fortinet Firewall Appliance, HP Insight Manager, Microsoft Visio, Crystal Reports, Front Page, Adobe Photoshop and Microsoft Office. NetIQ policy manager and Citrix clients. Expert knowledge of Active Directory, IIS 6 & 7 and Microsoft clustering. Experience with enterprise virtualization technologies such as VMware ESX Server 5.0. Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 May 2017 to Present Additional Information Available upon request