Manager Manager Manager - Village of Oak Lawn Work Experience Manager Village of Oak Lawn 2004 to Present 10 years working with Emergency  Information Services Manager Operations  Manager Responsible for creating and managing a Million Dollar LEADS certified  Budget, 12 servers, 7 offsite locations, 230 workstations, integration of multiple networks, website maintenance, and responsible for NIMS certifications  researching and testing future software and equipment.  100  200 Information Services Manager Village of Oak Lawn 2004 to Present Manager Responsible for creating and managing a six hundred thousand budget, 16 servers, 7  offsite locations, 230  workstations, integration of multiple networks, website maintenance, and responsible for researching and testing future software and equipment.    Key Contributions:  Create and manage the IT budget for the Village.  Implemented Fleet Management Software.  Provided project management for IT related aspects of a water meter project.  Lowered overall costs by one third while increasing the hardware and software refresh  timetable.  Implemented a new website allowing each division to manage their content.  Planned and oversaw implementation of CA real time failover solution.  Connected multiple locations with Wireless point to point high speed radios (200 mb to  1gb) reducing leased line costs.  Plan and managed Document Management software digitizing old records allowing users in multiple departments to share records.    Implemented and maintain layer 3 switching devices.  Assist all departments comply with State and Federal laws (Sunshine, HIPAA, and CJIS).  Plan and oversaw server upgrades to a virtualized environment.  Created an efficient workstation replacement plan for fixed and mobile units.  Create and realize a 1, 3, and 5 year Village IT plan.  Research, Test, and Plan installation of new hardware and software.  Create RFP and Bid packages for IT initiatives.  Manage IT staff on day to day technical operations and schedules.  Manage consultants that assist in large scale projects.  Maintain current technical expertise in rapidly changing technology environment.  Maintain a positive working relationship with all departments seeking out ways to improve their productivity.  Ensure server data integrity by evaluating, implementing and managing appropriate  software and hardware solutions.  System backup and real-time fail over with Arcserve Management.  Design, develop, recommends, and implement new or revised system software, utilities, and automate processes as necessary.  Assist with team projects and assignments.  Manage Government Public Access Channel.  Negotiate contracts for the Village IT department  Negotiate Cell tower rental contracts for the Village cell towers. Technical Manager OMNI Networking 2002 to 2004 Manager responsible for hiring and scheduling technicians, network 8 Years' Service in the United States  design, fault tolerant networks, and developing wireless communication Marine Corps and VPN solutions.    OMNI Networking 2002-2004  Technical Manager    Manager responsible for technician hiring and scheduling, network design, Server design, fault  tolerant networks, and developing wireless communication and VPN solutions.    Key Contributions:  Develop, maintain and manage customer relationships accounts.  Assist sales with obtaining and maintaining a good working relationship with customers.  Resolved customer complaints.  Created and managed user, group, and computer accounts in a Windows Server Active  Directory-based environment, managed DNS and DHCP server's.  Preform server and workstation upgrades.  Assist in configuring Outlook.  Manage Microsoft Exchange servers.  Support, backup, re-imaging, install, upgrade, and troubleshoot customer's PCs and laptops hardware and software.  Design fault tolerant networks.  Design wireless point to point networks.  Manage and design Active Directory sites.  Train new technicians.  Manage schedules. Network Engineer/ Systems Administrator Nova Business Technologies 1998 to 2002 Responsible for network design, and managing, implementing and developing client's server and workstation. Developed wireless point to point and point to multipoint solutions for clients and  resolved customer issues.    Key Contributions:  Created and managed user, group, and computer accounts in a Windows Server Active  Directory-based environment, managed DNS, DHCP, and WINS servers.  Managed and restore the Active Directory database.  Control access to files and folders by using shared permissions, local group policy in a windows Environment, administer domain user accounts and groups.  Performed maintenance functions on the client networks including back-ups, user  access, data security, data recovery planning, design and implementation.  Ensure that student information systems are backed up and available to staff at all times  Preformed system upgrades.  Support, backup, re-imaging, installs, upgrade, and troubleshoot customer's PCs and laptops hardware and software.  Troubleshoot and Configure hardware devices.  Create VPN networks to allow satellite offices to connect to the main office.  Install and maintain Cisco and Sonic Wall firewalls.  Install and program Cisco routers. Systems Administrator Don Ashley Consulting 1997 to 1998 Installed Managed and maintained client workstations, install cat network cable, and manage  users and rights on Novell and NT 4 servers. Field service technician BMA 1995 to 1997 USMC Reserves  CLS Switch Operator  Sargent  Managed Teams of field wireman to maintain 24/7/365 communications on the battle field  Managed a team of Marines to provide security for convoys  Participated in operation Enduring Freedom Education Bachelor's in Applied Science Robert Morris University - Chicago, IL 2017 to July 2019 Associates in Applied Science in Networking Robert Morris University