Systems/Network Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span>/Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - Government Tactical Solutions Newark, DE Work Experience Systems/Network Administrator Par Government/Rome Research - Manama February 2019 to Present Provide all operations and maintenance (O&M), troubleshooting, and Cybersecurity compliance actions for the Government’s CENTRIXS and JWICS information systems. Perform account creation/management, backup/restoral imaging activities, Cybersecurity scanning/remediation/reporting activities, equipment installation, cabling/cable management, and fault isolation/resolution. Manage network performance and maintaining network security; ensure that physical and logical security procedures are implemented and troubleshoot, and maintain Host Based Security System (HBSS) servers, clients and packages and hardening new or upgraded HBSS servers and required applications using applicable tools. Maintain the Government’s service applications software, including Microsoft Exchange, Collaboration at Sea (Lotus Domino), Sametime chat, Persistent Chat, Domino web mail, Seaport, and C2PC, WSUS and Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager Server. Perform cybersecurity artifacts development and maintenance (logical and physical drawings of associated architecture and proposed upgrade planning). Configure/troubleshoot cryptographic devices (e.g., KG-175, KG-250,KG-250X KG-175D, and KV-7/SV-7); this includes carrying and managing cryptographic keying material (keymat) and associated devices as needed during travel and while at the assigned Contractor work location. Perform Configuration Management (CM) and Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) aligned process development for service delivery management. Develop, review and update operational and technical documentation (e.g. standard operating procedures, desktop guides, flowcharts, etc.). Perform Inside plant support for NSA Bahrain Building 260 and various other Government owned buildings on NSA Bahrain or outlying annexes; this includes the movement of data boxes and troubleshooting/ repair of fiber optic and copper cable infrastructure for classifications ranging from UNCLASSIFIED to SCI, and coordination with applicable Program(s) of Record (POR) as required for Cybersecurity compliance and overarching modernization efforts. Provide onsite content management and user training support for the Government’s SharePoint Content Management System and Lotus Domino enterprise platform (Collaboration at Sea). Manage permissions and move/copy sites. Review, housekeep, manage, and configure accounts and sites. Monitor trends and report to the Government (e.g. site usage and growth, disk space usage and growth). Develop and implement pages and sites for all NAVCENT departments. Perform mapping of information to designated data repositories. Facilitate monthly training sessions to increase command-wide SharePoint adoption and educate users on SharePoint information sharing/dissemination concepts, taxonomies, and standards. install, configure, and manage components of the VMware virtualization environment, such as VSphere, ESX, VRM, etc. Perform forecasting, capacity evaluations, and condition appraisals of the infrastructure. Configure, administer, troubleshoot, and conduct backups and retrieval. Experience of working with vSphere v5.x and 6.x of VMware, experience of installing, configuring, upgrading, monitoring, and troubleshooting vCenter and ESXi servers. Senior Systems Administrator Government Tactical Solutions - Seoul, KR September 2018 to Present Korea    Analyze user's requirements, concept of operations documents, and high level system architectures to develop system requirements specifications. Analyze system requirements and leads design and development activities. Guide users in formulating requirements, advises alternative approaches, and conducts feasibility studies. Provide technical leadership for the integration of requirements, design, and technology. Incorporate new plans, designs and systems into ongoing operations. Develop system architecture and system design documentation. Guide system development and implementation planning through assessment or preparation of system engineering management plans and system integration and test plans. Interact with Government regarding Systems Engineering technical considerations and for associated problems, issues or conflicts. Responsible for the technical integrity of work performed and deliverables associated with the Systems Engineering area of responsibility. Communicate with other program personnel, government overseers, and senior executives. Researches and evaluates new concepts and processes to improve performance. Analyzes cross-functional problem sets, identifies root causes and resolves issues. Assists more junior level technicians, specialists, and managers in their activities. Works individually, actively participates on integrated teams, and leads multiple tasks, projects or teams. Oversees and monitors performance, and when required, takes steps to resolve issues. Direct multiple teams through to project completion. Network Manager Senior INSCOM May 2018 to August 2018 Senior Systems Administrator INSCOM - Bagram, AF October 2017 to May 2018 Afghanistan    Responsible for the installation, configuration, integration and maintenance of automation systems. Analyze system functions and failures to isolate and define problem areas. Monitor the reachability of all connections within the network adhering to circuit restoral priorities and initiate troubleshooting to restore full network capability. Monitor system performance, track usage, develop, and deliver a trend analysis of system load, usage and response. Analyze user traffic flow and recommend actions to assign users that communicate primarily with one group to the same router to remove traffic from the backbone links. Manage a router-based network consisting of three electrically and physically separate subnets. Manage IP addresses for numerous sites and adjust routing protocols to insure optimum performance. Provide on-site and telephonic technical services necessary to insure the continuing operation and optimization of the network. Perform diagnostic analysis of the network system, identify possible faulty devices, troubleshoot faulty modules, troubleshoot network problems and outages and prepare necessary documentation detailing actions taken. Maintain a system configuration database that will document all modifications to configuration changes of software or hardware. Analyze and prepare reports recommending additional network enhancements as they become apparent. Provide both individual and leadership activities to ensure shift and network is operating at peak efficiency. Daily management of TF ODIN network and computer systems such as user administration, backup, and user accounts management. Enforce server and workstation configuration standards. Networks include satellite or other special intelligence networks. Troubleshoot and monitor performance of cryptographic/encryption items. Administer UNIX, LINUX and Microsoft servers supporting Internet, email, and video teleconferencing services. Insure computer servers and workstations operate at optimal performance and capacity: configure routers, gateway protocols, and multiple local area networks (LAN) and wide areas network (WAN) topologies such as bridges, token rings point to point, fiber optic, thin-net, and thick-net applications. Monitor all networks using network management software (e.g., HP Open View). Applied Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) settings. Provide installation technical support in troubleshooting and correcting problems associated with classified and unclassified networks and computers as directed by INSCOM/Genesis customers. Provide in-depth knowledge of, configuration, upgrade, and installation, testing and troubleshooting of computing equipment in classified and unclassified enterprise environments using Remedy. Field Services Engineer Defense Logistics Agency September 2016 to September 2017 Yahya Technologies, LLC (Y-Tech) Bahrain, Manama & Kandahar, Afghanistan    Provide customer support with transition of mobile devices from Black Berry to iPhone. Responsible for providing resources to support installation, configuration, sustainment, testing and integration of networking and computing equipment in the customer's infrastructure and computing environment. Coordinate with the customers to ensure all Request for Change (RFC's) sent up for higher level approval have all associated requirements met and that the RFC states to the fullest extent possible all customer requirements. Maintaining documentation for all RFC's submitted. Monitor and provide status to the customers on their respective RFC's. Provide installation technical support in troubleshooting and correcting problems associated with classified and unclassified networks and computers as directed by the customer. Applied Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) settings. Provide in-depth knowledge of, configuration, upgrade, and installation, testing and troubleshooting of computing equipment in classified and unclassified enterprise environments using BMC Remedy. Knowledge of the customer network architecture, topology, and protocols network design principles and concepts  RRAS, DNS, ISDN, E1, TCP/IP and other network protocols remote access technology concepts network systems design, development, testing, installation, operations, management, and maintenance concepts and methods network security principles and methods network management tools Firewall NG and Provider-1  COTS network products and components to include network operating systems, routers, switches, firewalls, pair gain modems, and intrusion detection systems desktop and server operating systems to include Windows 10, Active Directory knowledge of CITRIX Metaframe XPe, SMS 2007. Symantec and Veritas products knowledge of PC hardware and COTS/GOTS packages new and emerging network technologies and standards and/or industry trends acquisition management policies and procedures contract principles, including the responsibilities of each party to a contract analysis and evaluation methods oral and written communication techniques  Workplace collaboration sufficient to plan and carry out difficult and complex network assignments and develop new methods, approaches, and procedures provide advice and guidance on a wide range and variety of complex network issues interpret network policies, standards, and guidelines conduct analyses and recommend resolution of complex network issues advise on the design, development, and integration of network systems consistent with existing or planned network infrastructures advise on and implement network security evaluate and recommend adoption of new or enhanced approaches for delivering network services monitor network performance and performing network diagnostics troubleshoot network problems plan for, test and install network software and hardware components, upgrades and fixes develop requirements for the acquisition of network hardware, software and services identify and define technical requirements applied to the design, development, implementation, management, and support of systems and networks evaluate and advise on alternate approaches evaluate and test software and hardware products evaluate proposals for the acquisition of network products or services prepare and present studies, reports and briefings represent the organization in interactions with other organizations provide technical leadership on group projects. Install and maintain Cisco TelePresence System. Field Services Engineer Defense Logistics Agency May 2015 to September 2016 Twenty Second Century Technology Inc. (TSCTI) Kandahar, Afghanistan  Provide customer support with transition of mobile devices from Black Berry to iPhone. Responsible for providing resources to support installation, configuration, sustainment, testing and integration of networking and computing equipment in the customer's infrastructure and computing environment. Coordinate with the customers to ensure all Request for Change (RFC's) sent up for higher level approval have all associated requirements met and that the RFC states to the fullest extent possible all customer requirements. Maintaining documentation for all RFC's submitted. Monitor and provide status to the customers on their respective RFC's. Provide installation technical support in troubleshooting and correcting problems associated with classified and unclassified networks and computers as directed by the customer. Applied Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) settings. Provide in-depth knowledge of, configuration, upgrade, and installation, testing and troubleshooting of computing equipment in classified and unclassified enterprise environments using BMC Remedy. Knowledge of the customer network architecture, topology, and protocols network design principles and concepts  RRAS, DNS, ISDN, E1, TCP/IP and other network protocols remote access technology concepts network systems design, development, testing, installation, operations, management, and maintenance concepts and methods network security principles and methods network management tools Firewall NG and Provider-1  COTS network products and components to include network operating systems, routers, switches, firewalls, pair gain modems, and intrusion detection systems desktop and server operating systems to include Windows 10, Active Directory knowledge of CITRIX Metaframe XPe, SMS 2007. Symantec and Veritas products knowledge of PC hardware and COTS/GOTS packages new and emerging network technologies and standards and/or industry trends acquisition management policies and procedures contract principles, including the responsibilities of each party to a contract analysis and evaluation methods oral and written communication techniques  Workplace collaboration sufficient to plan and carry out difficult and complex network assignments and develop new methods, approaches, and procedures provide advice and guidance on a wide range and variety of complex network issues interpret network policies, standards, and guidelines conduct analyses and recommend resolution of complex network issues advise on the design, development, and integration of network systems consistent with existing or planned network infrastructures advise on and implement network security evaluate and recommend adoption of new or enhanced approaches for delivering network services monitor network performance and performing network diagnostics troubleshoot network problems plan for, test and install network software and hardware components, upgrades and fixes develop requirements for the acquisition of network hardware, software and services identify and define technical requirements applied to the design, development, implementation, management, and support of systems and networks evaluate and advise on alternate approaches evaluate and test software and hardware products evaluate proposals for the acquisition of network products or services prepare and present studies, reports and briefings represent the organization in interactions with other organizations provide technical leadership on group projects. Install and maintain Cisco TelePresence System. Principle Administrator, Systems General Dynamics Information Technology - Herndon, VA July 2010 to April 2015 va  General Dynamics Information Technology Kandahar, Kabul & Bagram - Afghanistan  Responsible for maintaining the core network services and end-user intelligence system applications. Assist users with installation, training, operations and repair of Intelligence Exploitation Equipment (IEE) and other peripheral equipment such as printers, plotters, and scanners. Perform system backup and recovery of Windows based systems. Administer Windows XP/ 7 desktop systems. Conduct domain administration. Direct and manage project development from beginning to end. Define project scope, goals and deliverables that support business goals in collaboration with senior management and stakeholders. Performed administration on Distributed Common Ground System - Army (DCGS-A) family of systems. Develop full-scale project plans and associated communications documents. Effectively communicate project expectations to team members and stakeholders in a timely and clear fashion. Determine the frequency and content of status reports from the project team, analyze results, and troubleshoot problem areas. Proactively manage changes in project scope, identify potential crises, and devise contingency plans. Define project success criteria and disseminate them to involved parties throughout project life cycle. Applied Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) settings. Coach, mentor, motivate and supervise project team members and influence them to take positive action and accountability for their assigned work. Build, develop, and grow any business relationships vital to the success of the project. Provide technical, administrative, and operational management of assigned project or tasks, including contract and subcontractor management. Track project milestones and deliverables. Build, develop, and grow any business relationships vital to the success of the project. Supervise assigned staff, including subordinate supervisors. Identify and manage project dependencies and critical path. Plan and schedule project timelines and milestones using appropriate tools. Participate in the development of technical project plans, proposals, reports, and task order and administrative reporting. Perform high level technical services on assigned tasks. Conduct planning and provide recommendation to client on task workload. Interact with vendors, other agencies, and other client staff on behalf of the client. Coordinate development of deliverables and products. Conducts planning and provides recommendations to client on task workload. Maintain current knowledge of relevant technology as assigned. Participate in special projects as required. Ensure quality assurance of project deliverables. Establish a help desk which provides the focal point for all user issues and job tracking. Contribute to the development of checklist, policy, and procedures for occupational duties. Install and configure ArcGIS, SOCET GXP, DataMaster, ERDAS Imagine, Arc View, Falcon View, Remote View, ADOBE, IAVA Patches and Retina/Gold Disk. Install, configure and re-key Taclanes: KG175A, KG175B, KG17D and KG250. Provide technical support and troubleshooting to network, desktop and/or systems hardware and software. Assist the customer in resolving technical problems on a primary account by providing guidance regarding software and hardware problems  Provides end-user software troubleshooting and support. Assist staff with the installation, configuration, and ongoing usability of desktop computers, peripheral equipment, software, operating systems software, and associated telecommunication systems within established standards and guidelines. Ensure desktop computers interconnect seamlessly with diverse systems including associated validation systems, file servers, email servers, computer conferencing systems, application servers, and administrative systems. Apply basic diagnostic techniques to analyze and resolve end-user requirements of moderate complexity, identify problems, investigate causes, and recommend solutions. Troubleshoot problems using standard methodologies with minimum supervision. Applied Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) settings. Oversee follow-ups with customers to ensure that customer inquiries are resolved within the agreed upon time frame. Performs account maintenance for networks and various applications. Maintain documentation for successful completion of task. Participate in special projects as required. Train and orients staff on use of hardware and software responsible for end-user technical training. Enters tickets to track work and provide documentation for fix actions. Log and track inquiries and maintain history records and related problem documentation. Design, install, maintain and repair of the standardized network configurations for layer 2 and 3 switching devices including Cisco 2900 and 3500, 3550, 3560, and 3700 series switches. Knowledge of Active Directory (Security Groups, OU's, Managing Shared Resources), and account management (Creation, Deletion, Maintenance). Exchange Administration: create mailboxes, contacts, group mailboxes, JWICS and distribution groups. Support Win2K/XP/Vista/7. Skilled in Cisco IOS, Taclane GEM, Cisco LAN Management Solution (LMS), HP Open View, Solar Winds, Multi-Int Analysis and Archive System (MAAS) Administration. Received cash awards: the exceptional performance award for outstanding job achievement, and a certificate of appreciation from the NGA Director. Senior Systems Engineer General Dynamics Information Technology October 2009 to July 2010 Jalalabad, Afghanistan  Primary focus is on system installation, administration and maintenance on the Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Information Service (ISRIS) suite. ISRIS is an information service that takes full motion video from unmanned aircraft platforms and makes that available inside a server architecture so that a user can access both live and archived video and associated data Responsible for Apple/UNIX/LINUX server installation, administration and maintenance, LAN/WAN support, troubleshooting low/medium/high level network outages for the customer and providing fix actions. Maintain accurate site documentation including system configuration data. Focuses on the rapid, successful resolution of customer initiated work requests and may occasionally perform service related work outside the network field. Apple/UNIX/LINUX system administration network environment enterprise networking. System will consist of video exploitation equipment, network storage, JBOSS, Tomcat, UNIX/LINUX servers, Cisco routers, and multiple video decoders/encoders. Install video broadcast / situational system. Troubleshoot RF and network LAN devices utilizing DVB-RCS and MAAS (Multimedia Analysis & Archive system). Operate and maintain Wide Area Networks (WAN), Local Area Networks (LAN), and SIPR/NIPR/Centrix networks. Senior Systems Engineer General Dynamics Information Technology - Baghdad, IQ December 2008 to October 2009 Iraq  Design, plan, document and manage the implementation of IT systems evaluate and integrate multiple Operating Systems and applications. Apply extensive industry knowledge to identify and recommend solutions, products, and services and formulate enterprise-wide business IT solutions. Research, analyze, recommend and implement new technologies, standards, processes, tools and techniques, and provide recommendations and guidance in the design, development, implementation and management of products and solutions. Work with the customer to translate business requirements into functional and technical requirements. Define project scope, plans and deliverables including cost projections and proposed implementation dates. Work with vendors and other architects to select appropriate technologies in order to produce a comprehensive technical architecture within a specific technology portfolio. Create systems infrastructure documentation and information/technology plans based on an understanding of the organizational strategic direction, technical and business needs. Develop logical architectural designs and specific physical designs per the technical specifications / requirements. Assist with the application of emerging technologies and technology trends to customer environments including the initial research and recommendations of appropriate courses of action  Subject Matter Expert (SME) in all areas of IT Infrastructure including  SAN/NAS, Networks, VOIP Technologies, VMWare, Veritas NetBackup, Commvault, Exchange, Clustering. Knowledge and experience with Smart Card implementation / CAC / PKI Card implementation, Microsoft Active Directory  Microsoft Enterprise Server 2000/2003/2008, DHCP, DNS, WINS, Domain Controllers and Microsoft Exchange 2003, integration into local Domain and overall Enterprise architecture. Schedule and perform network maintenance, installation, configuration and repairs. Provide support for all LAN-based applications, routers, firewalls, VOIP, VOSIP and Ethernet technology. Utilize CISCO Works, Solar Winds, NetApp network attached storage, SSH Putty, HP Network Node Manager and CISCO Secure Access Control Server (ACS) for network troubleshooting. Design, install, maintain and repair of the standardized network configurations for layer 2 and 3 switching devices including Cisco 2900 and 3500, 3550, 3560, 3700 and 6500 series switches. Knowledge of Active Directory (Security Groups, OU's, Managing Shared Resources), and account management (Creation, Deletion, Maintenance). Exchange Administration: create mailboxes, contacts, group mailboxes, JWICS and distribution groups. Support Win2K/XP/Vista. Network Administrator III Lockheed Martin - Islamabad, PK April 2005 to December 2008 Pakistan & Oman  Provide training to LAN Administrators. Support site as acting site lead. Operate and maintain Wide Area Networks (WAN), Local Area Networks (LAN), and SIPR/NIPR/Centrix networks. Provide technical and operational support for the operation and administration of network infrastructure, switches, routers, and supporting hardware, file, application, communication, web, email, financial, domain and CD servers, databases and inside cable plant. Implement additions, changes, deletions, and configuration to network resources. Typical tasks included: Backups configuration management services network security tasks component and system repair  Monitoring, troubleshooting, and diagnostics  Hardware and software upgrade services email administration training administering local Active Directory (AD) environment create and maintain organizational unit (OU) containers and technology review and evaluation. User accounts managing mail servers, printer servers, WWW servers, and/or firewalls, and experience in reviewing and recommending software applications as well as identifying hardware salient characteristics. Experienced in analyzing and troubleshooting military networks to include the Microsoft Windows NT Server Operating system, Network router management and configuration, Microsoft Windows Operating systems, Microsoft mail applications, (Local and remote), Firewalls, Switches, VPNs, and CRYPTO devices. Microsoft Enterprise Server 2000/2003, DHCP, DNS, WINS, Domain Controllers, Microsoft Exchange 5.5 and 2003. Manage CENTRIXS GCTF user accounts and network. Perform project management. Knowledge and experience within the Physical Security domain. Knowledge and experience with Smart Card implementation / CAC / PKI Card implementation, Microsoft Active Directory  Microsoft Enterprise Server 2000/2003, DHCP, DNS, WINS, Domain Controllers and Microsoft Exchange 2003, integration into local Domain and overall Enterprise architecture. Schedule and perform network maintenance, installation, configuration and repairs. Provide support for all LAN-based applications, routers, firewalls, VOIP, VOSIP and Ethernet technology. Utilize CISCO Works, Solar Winds, SSH Tectia Client, HP Network Node Manager and CISCO Secure Access Control Server (ACS) for network troubleshooting. Design, install, maintain and repair of the standardized network configurations for all layer 2 and 3 switching devices including Cisco 2900 and 3500, 3550, 3560, 3700 and 6500 series switches. LAN Administrator II Lockheed Martin - Islamabad, PK August 2004 to April 2005 Pakistan & Doha, Qatar  Operate and maintain Wide Area Networks (WAN), Local Area Networks (LAN), and SIPR/NIPR networks. Provide technical and operational support for the operation and administration of network infrastructure, switches, routers, and supporting hardware, file, application, communication, web, email, financial, domain and CD servers, databases and inside cable plant. Implement additions, changes, deletions, and configuration to network resources. Typical tasks included: Backups configuration management services network security tasks component and system repair  Monitoring, troubleshooting, and diagnostics  Hardware and software upgrade services email administration training administering local Active Directory (AD) environment create and maintain organizational unit (OU) containers and technology review and evaluation. users' accounts managing mail servers, printer servers, WWW servers, and/or firewalls, and experience in reviewing and recommending software applications as well as identifying hardware salient characteristics. Experienced in analyzing and troubleshooting military networks to include the Microsoft Windows NT Server Operating system, Network router management and configuration, Microsoft Windows Operating systems, Microsoft mail applications, (Local and remote), Firewalls, Switches, VPNs, and CRYPTO devices. Microsoft Enterprise Server 2000/2003, DHCP, DNS, WINS, Domain Controllers, Microsoft Exchange 5.5 and 2003. Manage CENTRIXS GCTF user accounts and network. Knowledge and experience with Smart Card implementation / CAC / PIV Card implementation, Microsoft Active Directory  Microsoft Enterprise Server 2000/2003, DHCP, DNS, WINS, Domain Controllers and Microsoft Exchange 2003, integration into local Domain and overall Enterprise architecture. Scheduled and performed network maintenance, installation, configuration and repairs. Provide support for all LAN-based applications, routers, firewalls, VOIP, VOSIP and Ethernet technology. LAN Administrator II Small Computers - Doha, QA August 2003 to August 2004 Qatar  Provide help desk support to the client and server tiers. Support all help desk functions and responsibilities including customer calls, creating trouble tickets and logs, creating tracking reports for active and closed tickets, answer subscriber questions and correct deficiencies. Troubleshoot computer hardware and software issues. Installed and configured system hardware and software. Utilized REMEDY for initiating and clearing trouble tickets. Research documentation on software and hardware installs. Configure desktop and laptops computer for the NIPR and SIPR Networks. Conduct a virus scan on all systems. Contact customers with a status update. Conduct inventory tracking of base assets. Install, configure and administer Windows 2000 Server, Professional and XP. Perform system upgrades. Install and Configure network printers and local printers. Check the system services for compliance. Applied Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) settings. Add users and computers to the domain. Perform a hardware system analysis. Provide information for the department's Continuity Binder. Provide training on installing and troubleshooting hardware and software. Configure computer systems with client for Microsoft networks, file and printer sharing for Microsoft networks and Internet Protocol (TCP/IP). Experienced in analyzing and troubleshooting military networks to include the Microsoft Windows NT Server Operating System, Network router management and configuration, Microsoft Windows Operating Systems, Microsoft mail applications (local and remote), Firewalls, Switches, VPNs, and CRYPTO devices. Maintain Norton Ghost server for NIPR and SIPR clients. Repair and troubleshoot network and local printers. Research the internet for hardware device drivers. Ensure antivirus definitions are current. Education Doctorate in Business Administration in Information Systems Management Walden University - Baltimore, MD 2016 MBA in Information Systems Saint Joseph's University - Philadelphia, PA May 1990 B.S. in Finance in Finance/Accounting Saint Joseph's University - Philadelphia, PA May 1986 Skills NETWORK ADMINISTRATION, PROJECT PLANNING, DOCUMENTATION, ENGINEERING DESIGN, TEAM BUILDING Additional Information Focused, analytical, and accomplished professional with proven track record and exceptional skills in systems administration. Versatile and dynamic expert, equipped with excellent technical qualifications with notable achievements in quality improvement and business development. Exhibit enthusiastic and proactive leadership qualities in motivating, developing, guiding, and empowering others to succeed; thrive in both independent and collaborative work environments. Clearance: Top-Secret Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) G, HCS, SI/TK, NATO with CI Poly    CORE COMPETENCIES    ? Project Planning and Implementation  ? System and Network Administration  ? Highly Motivated and Fast Learner  ? Installing, Configuring, and Troubleshooting  ? Leadership Skills and Team Building  ? Effective Communication Skills  ? Engineering Design and Documentation  ? Problem Identification and Resolution