Network and Systems Engineer Network and <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Network and Systems Engineer - Forward Advantage Inc Fresno, CA Dedicated technologist looking to expand my network and systems engineering knowledge. I'm eager to learn and enjoy a challenging and fast paced environment! Work Experience Network and Systems Engineer Forward Advantage Inc - Fresno, CA July 2019 to Present Maintain LAN and WAN infrastructure for both Forward Advantage, and it's sister company PNA and non-profit foundations.  ? Administer and expand existing ESXi and Hyper-V infrastructure  ? Manage security applications, including Fortinet SIEM and ForcePoint DLP  ? Assisting the development team with new and existing products and the infrastructure that runs them  ? Work alongside CIO for ongoing projects including new telephony system Application Support Engineer Forward Advantage Inc - Fresno, CA January 2018 to July 2019 Deployed custom intranet solution on top of SharePoint, creating custom web parts and sites as needed  ? Azure infrastructure deployment and administration, including Azure AD and Office 365  ? Created learning material and educated staff on any software applications, including Office365 and Salesforce. Interim Salesforce Administrator Forward Advantage Inc - Fresno, CA August 2018 to January 2019 Monitored and managed Salesforce, service cloud, and communities for internal employees and hundreds of customers  ? Built custom fields, layouts, permissions, and reports  ? Worked with internal employees and external customers to implement and enhance workflows Help Desk Representative Forward Advantage Inc - Fresno, CA February 2017 to December 2017 Created a PowerShell script that inventories network equipment, programs installed, and physical  properties, allowing more in-depth insight into existing network devices  ? Implemented imaging process that utilized windows deployment server, cutting down endpoint  deployment by 80%  ? Configured and administered network equipment, expanded network and virtual environment, and deployed and managed ESXi/Hyper-V clusters  ? Created a program in C# that interfaces with our ticketing system and on-prem AD to automatically  provision and disable users when HR submits new employee tickets and employee termination tickets Education Associates in Information Technology Tidewater Community College - Virginia Beach, VA Skills Security, Cisco, Active Directory, Vmware, Exchange, Cisco, Security, Active Directory, Vmware, Exchange, DNS, VPN, Hyper-v (3 years), Azure Cloud (3 years), firewalls, LAN, SQL, Networking Certifications/Licenses MCSE: Windows Server 2016 April 2018 to Present CCNA Routing and Switching August 2019 to August 2022 Network+ A+ Certified