Application Production Systems Engineer Application Production <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer / SysAdmin Sunnyvale, CA • More than 15 years in Information Technology Systems Administrator experience. Including 10 years of Sun Solaris Unix, 10 years of Linux and more than 15 years of Systems Administration experience in Sun Solaris Unix, Ubuntu, Red Hat, Cent OS and Fedora Linux, Microsoft Windows 2008 Servers.  • Managed more than 25,000 servers in both office and data center collocation for staging and production systems in the IT Operations department by open source Linux operating systems.  • Implemented by running a global large scale virtualized infrastructure in AWS & OpenStack cloud.  • Automated Unix Jumpstart & Linux KickStart Cobbler, Chef, CMC (Configuration Management Controller), Puppet for installation and configuration, command-line and Bash shell scripting.  • Implemented multiple platforms such as Red Hat, CentOS, Fedora, SUSE, Ubuntu Linux, Solaris Unix, more than 2 years in AWS & OpenStack cloud platforms, Open Source, GitHub, Jenkins, etc.  • Organize and optimize tickets or any internal/external customers' requirement systems as a lead/manager.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, as well as oral and written skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Production Systems Engineer Cisco Systems/WebEx Meeting Support Operation - Milpitas, CA May 2017 to May 2019 • Implemented with maintaining and supporting WebEx Meeting Services Operation systems Production & Federal change & deployment by open source applications with daily dashboard monitoring tools.  • Work closely with SOC team to monitor, support and deploy WebEx multi-components AWS Cloud solutions at scale, impacting millions of customers worldwide with the portal solution from New Dynamics to AppDynamics with regular European, APAC, and US Federal customers.  • Extended implementation of Configuration Management Console, Puppet, Jenkins, Jira & monitoring by home grown MCT (Monitor Console Tool), Delivered daily version changes deployments for Production and FedRamp environment within European and US change windows by coordinate with Asian time zone.  • Familiar to Linux shell, AWS, OpenStack, LB network, Java, Kubernetes and running a global large scale virtualized infrastructure in the cloud by using ServiceNow ticketing system.  • Experienced in Build Automation tools by Python on Jenkins, Release Management with CI/CD, GIT branching strategy Interact with Client's engineering teams across geographies in SLA.  • Support production systems On Call once a week in a month by Pager Duty. Mobile Search Production Systems Engineer Yahoo, Inc - Sunnyvale, CA October 2015 to April 2017 • Support, manage and plan in Dev Ops team to setup/install/patch software packages and assist to debug and fix the system alerts of production system services from OpenStack in Ubuntu, CentOS Linux CLI.  • Setup Windows, Mac, & Linux Ubuntu systems for lab testing before application has been implemented.  • Responsible scripting by command-line of DevOps, planning, performance management, deployment & release engineering by using tools like Apache, Chef, Dockers Json, Kubernetes, GitHub, Hadoop, Puppet and OpenShift.  • Work with team for On-Call, monitor Splunk, Yamas, Nagios and multiple cross-functional helping deliver the new and better experiences to the users while ensuring Security, Reliability for Search services.  • Troubleshooting and fixing open tickets from engineering and other teams for request.  • Performed project managed Qualys Vulnerabilities scan and check Linux/Unix hosts to patch the systems.  • Helped Lab activities such as rack & stack to setup systems to move on for QA & Production testing. Production Operation Systems Administrator Symantec/Verisign - Mountain View, CA December 2013 to September 2015 • Manage and administer a uniform group of infrastructure components and act as a tier one interface to IT/non-IT users, troubleshot/resolved tickets from Jira tickets as well as dispatching complex tickets.  • Perform System Administration activities on AIX, Sun Unix, Ubuntu, RedHat, CentOS Linux, & Windows.  • Support DDOS security attack by Apache, Tomcat, Tomcat Jenkins, WebLogic, and JBOSS technology.  • Manage and install web certificates (SSL, Client Authentication Certificates) by open source applications.  • Work with IBM's, NetApp's, EMC's, Cisco's and Apple's vendors to replace devices via RMA.  • Maintain and use tools of Splunk, Keynote, Puppet and Nagios for troubleshooting and reporting.  • Implement system administration shell scripting such as provisioning and troubleshooting on the following OS platforms: RedHat, CentOs, Ubuntu, Debian Linux, MS Windows, IBM AIX and Solaris UNIX. IT Linux Systems Administrator Cisco Systems/WebEx IT - Santa Clara, CA January 2013 to November 2013 • Install and configure OSSEC, VMware vSphere Exs/Exsi 3, 4 & 5 servers and Ubuntu & Redhat Enterprise Linux servers and responding to Data Center Ops team for servers move and decom EOL physical boxes.  • Duty including On-Call and automation configuration, troubleshooting Puppet and VMware management.  • Ordered and setup Cisco UCS servers for VMware Vsphere migration and installed VMware servers.  • Setup and configure sFTP servers systems by implementing one Dev system with 2 load balanced production servers all from the virtual servers within 60 days.  • Work with IBM's, NetApp's, EMC's, Cisco's vendors to replace devices via RMA. Sr. Linux Systems Administrator Accenture - San Jose, CA May 2012 to December 2012 • Configure, Automate and manage CentOS Linux install by Cobbler and responding to Accenture VM servers. Duty including manage MySQL DB App servers Apache, Tomcat, Jenkins, and Puppet Labs, etc.  • Implement and maintenance Backup/Storage solution by conferencing better system performance tuning.  • Help running a global large scale virtualized infrastructure in the cloud with Data Center NOC team.  • Watch and monitor the health of server/desktop systems by configuring Nagios and Splunk that indexes IT data from application, server or network device for QA & Developers systems performance/uptime/logs. Sr. Linux Systems Administrator NASA/Ames Research Center - Moffett Field, CA January 2011 to May 2012 • Install, configure Rocks Cluster, CentOS Linux cluster, DUO and responding to servers outages.  • Dealt with NASA procurements, rack and stack servers and network switches, troubleshooting and management server room and resolved the power & temperature problems.  • Implement and maintenance RAID array storage systems by fine tuning Bash/SH scripts and adding cron jobs to better system performance tuning. Help implement Mac notebook with OS X Apple OS.  • Applying government security requirement to harden Linux by patching and removing, users, services.  • Watch and monitor the health of server/desktop systems that setup Ganglia to see clusters' performance. Unix/Linux Systems Administrator Motorola, Inc - Santa Clara, CA January 2010 to January 2011 • Initiated Setup and Configure Red Hat Kickstart server and install clients for Linux systems in the data center and labs for QA and Dev engineers with NIS domain and Nagios monitoring tools.  • Implement & maintenance corporate production Solaris Unix and Red Hat/CentOS/Fedora/Ubuntu Linux 500+ Servers, Enterprise & Engineering servers, backup by Veritas NetBackup and storage by NetApp.  • Coordinated with ClearCase admin to setup/configured files and update packages to meet the requirements.  • Install, configure and upgrade Servers on Fedora, Red Hat Linux with Yum, puppet and Xen, VMware Esxi.  • Managed and monitor daily 10+ ticket requests for performance and resources by BMC Remedy.  • Rewrite Add/Remove users Shell scripts and accomplished 70+ users IDs conversion within 2 months. SDS Unix/Linux Systems Admin IBM Silicon Valley Lab - San Jose, CA January 2009 to January 2010 • Setup Red Hat Kickstart for IBM x/iSeries and Intel server hardware setup and configure Linux with Backup and NetApp Storage in the data center and labs for QA testing and development engineers.  • Setup and install BigFix and scan Qualys scan for severity vulnerability and audit requirements.  • Coordinated with DB2/Oracle DBA to configure SWAP files and update packages for the requirement.    • Install, configure and maintain more than 1000 xSeries on Ubuntu, SuSE 9, 10 & 11 Red Hat 4 & 5 Linux, VMware Esxi server administration and manage NFS mount, plus document Inventory for Security team.  • Managed and monitor daily 20+ tickets for performance and resources by Rational ticketing system.  • Successfully setup, configured, and documented 100+ new Linux systems within a couple of weeks. Contractor Zynga Game Networks - Sunnyvale, CA September 2008 to December 2008 • Setup PXE boot Kickstart server, manage HW mount and install, configure CentOS Linux in data center.  • Coordinated with MySQL DBA for Data Center HW location and manage to faster way to update database.  • Install, configure and maintain hardware on CentOS Linux, VMware Esxi server administration.  • Managed hardware mount with monitor and systems performance and resources by using Avocent KVMs.  • Successfully setup, configure more than hundreds Linux hosts and assigns servers into F5 Load Balancer.  • Install and setup CentOS, Fedora, Ubuntu, RedHat Linux and perform systems administration daily tasks. IT Operations Systems Administrator Core Mobility, Inc - Mountain View, CA August 2005 to September 2008 • Manage projects such as NAB (Name Address Book) on IBM System x3550/x3650 and System zSeries. 24/7 Production Servers Support. Participate in On-Call duties on a Bi-weekly rotational basis.  • Setup Kickstart RedHat, SuSE, Ubuntu Linux installation, VMware Esxi3 installation/configuration.  • Setup and tune Apache, Tomcat Java, JBoss, Ant, MySQL, and Open Source application packages.  • Implement Nagios and SiteScope monitoring tools for monitoring and eliminating systems downtime.  • Setup and implemented Open Source applications such as Apache, Oracle (SunOne) Java, MySQL, etc. Education MBA in Cisco CCNA National University - San Jose, CA BS in Computer Science Bachelors San Jose State University - San Jose, CA BA in Architecture Tamkang University - Taipei, TW Skills Linux, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Active directory, Jquery, HTML