Senior Network Administrator Senior Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Network Administrator - ASRC FEDERAL DNT Fort Washington, MD Work Experience Senior Network Administrator ASRC FEDERAL DNT - Falls Church, VA March 2016 to Present Leverage strong network administration expertise in delivering infrastructure support for the applications and new requirements of Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center (JAL FHCC) and North Chicago (JAL FHCC) by working closely with JAL FHCC Systems Engineers.  * Supported infrastructure for all testing and production deployment requirements for all systems. Actively engaged in troubleshooting calls and delivered joint requirements forms (JRFs) and PPS details to JAL FHCC Systems Engineers.  * Coordinated and scheduled replacement activities of host site systems and applications. Senior Network Administrator DATA NETWORKS CORP - Reston, VA March 2014 to March 2016 Served as a senior network administrator for enterprise engineering directorate while managing all facets of LAN. Implemented data security by performing account management and group policy management, configuring TCP/IP settings, establishing groups and setting permissions for folders and files by group for local access, remote access, and network shares.  * Rendered exceptional technical skills in configuring both Classified and Unclassified systems in accordance with Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs) while resolving multiple findings to DISA standards.  * Effectively minimized system threats by performing manual Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs) and using Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP) tools consisting of scan engine and benchmark files.  * Ensured system security by conducting and scheduling Retina scans on a monthly basis, downloaded latest SCCVI audit file, transferred scan results into Vulnerability Management System (VMS) database and actions taken to resolve findings.  * Performed backups and disaster recovery planning and took backups of domain file share and windows servers.  * Configured and maintained a Remote Desktop Server to enable multiple client login through SIPR tokens.  * Delivered support to the commercial off the shelf (COTS) programs, including Office 2007, Office 2010 (Excel, PowerPoint, and Word), Outlook 2007, Outlook 2010, and Visio 2007.  * Successfully completed migration process of clients from Windows XP to Windows 7 on Active Directory domain running Windows Server Enterprise 2008 r2.  * Researched and delivered recommendation in purchasing hardware and software products. Systems Administrator APPTIS FEDERAL SERVICES, INC - Chantilly, VA February 2006 to March 2014 Administered all aspects of managing local area network. Created groups based on division structure and set group permissions related to various resource objects.  * Assessed vulnerabilities of the operating system (OS), Firefox, internet explorer, and MS Office by expertly utilizing Field Security Office (FSO) gold disk.  * Integrated manually and automatically patch systems and COTS products. Patched systems and COTS products by using various manual and automatic tools.  * Successfully completed overall migration process of domain servers from Windows NT to Windows 2000 and clients from Window NT to XP. Network Administrator SETA July 2002 to February 2006 Demonstrated strong expertise in handling all facets of the local area network to include group policies, set group permissions as TIS per management policies and procedures.  * Developed and implemented both Classified and Unclassified systems using Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) to Field Security Office (FSO) standards.  * Resolved multiple security findings and system vulnerabilities using FSO documents.  * Performed multiple account management tasks, such as adding, modifying, and deleting accounts on both Windows NT and Windows 2000 server operating systems  * Administered all aspects of running the backup and restore of database and file shares using Symantec Backup Exec and ACRONIX to DLT tape media and USB externally connected drives.  * Provided assistance to enhance goals and objectives of DISA's Enterprise Engineering (EE) Directorate. Education Certificate George Washington University Bachelor in American Studies in American Studies George Washington University Assessments Technical Support — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kcg5yp7h-bjq-3wp Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/isqq6b8vxz5tlcgp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.