IT Administrator IT <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Administrator - Available Upon Request/Interview Anderson, IN To leverage my education, experience and leadership skillsets for a competitive firm where I can be instrumental in the strategic, operational, financial and business objectives of the organization. Work Experience IT Administrator Available Upon Interview/Request April 2019 to Present Oversee and maintain all aspects of the company's computer infrastructure at the Anderson location to include maintaining networks, servers and security programs and systems. Manage the upgrade and installation of new hardware and software, perform troubleshooting to address any problems with computer systems, and assess viruses and potential threats to the company's network. Monitor the use of email, create and change passwords, make suggestions for improvements to computer systems, backup data and perform data recovery if needed. IT Administrator Theresa D. Props September 2018 to April 2019 IT Manager / Systems Administrator    Responsible for firm computer systems including hardware, software, network, website maintenance and development. Support of all hosted software packages and liaison between firm and outside resource companies. Support of Office 365 including OneDrive group folders and Skype for Business. Responsible for assigned QuickBooks client payroll, tax preparation and IT support of client environment. Adjunct Instructor Harrison College January 2018 to September 2018 Responsible for preparing students to be successful in their future careers by developing the requisite skills and knowledge appropriate for graduates. The philosophy of Harrison College requires that instructors conduct themselves in a professional manner to meet the needs of students and prospective employers. Information Technology Program Chair Harrison College January 2018 to September 2018 Responsible for program oversight, ensuring an academic environment that facilitates robust program content, teaching effectiveness, and student learning that is consistent with the mission of the college. Supervisory oversight of ten adjunct faculty to include quarterly reviews. Systems Administrator II Allied Solutions, Inc 2016 to 2017 Responsible for the operation and support of enterprise software systems and the related application infrastructure. Independently make decisions identifying opportunities for improvement and innovation and help to implement solutions that ensures that software systems, business data and related procedures, adhere to organizational standards and goals. Additionally, serve as an escalation point for IT Support, Systems Administrator I and business teams. Manufacturer Software Technical Support Infinias - Exacq Technologies 2014 to 2016 Provide Integrator and End-User support for video surveillance and access control hardware and software. Responsible for troubleshooting, installation, upgrading and licensing for both packages which includes the frontend software and the backend database. Information Systems Coordinator and Network / Systems Administrator Gaither Management Group, Inc 2012 to 2014 Achieve IT operations operational objectives by maintaining current system, licensing; communicate with offsite hardware and software vendors; evaluating, recommending, testing and installing new technology; contributing information and recommendations to strategic plans and reviews; preparing and completing action plans; implementing production, productivity, quality, and customer-service standards; resolving problems; completing audits; identifying trends; determining system improvements and implementing change. Project management duties to include material specification, costing, scheduling and resource planning. Information Technology Manager and Network / Systems Administrator Becker Landscape Contractors, Inc 2006 to 2012 Manage the information technology department in accordance with organizational policies and goals. Ensure proper functionality of company information processing systems and make upgrades as necessary. Assist business operations in utilizing information systems to improve efficiency. Maintain computer equipment, hardware, and software to meet organizational needs. Create, forecast and ensure compliance with information technology budgets. Manage and utilize outside resources, scheduling and project follow-up. Network / Systems Administrator - Consultant Integrated Network Strategies 2000 to 2006 Responsible for support of 20+ individual company clientele including: diagnosis and repair of hardware, software and networking issues; training and support of multiple accounting/distribution software packages; system/network setup and support (Windows 2000, XP, Windows 7 and Server Products). Responsible for the protection against and the removal of virus and spyware infections. Provide network, application, and file server set-up, configuration, design, migration, security, backup and support. Project management duties to include material specification and quoting, scheduling and resource planning. Education MBA University of St. Francis Bachelor of Science in Business Information Systems Indiana Wesleyan University Skills Active Directory, Vmware, Exchange Additional Information • Windows Server Administration 2000 - 2016  • Active Directory and IIS management  • Exchange Installation/Administration  • Hosted Email and Web Solutions  • Backup Administration (Backup Exec, Barracuda Server Backup) multiple media options  • Network Access Storage, Network Printers Administration  • MAC OS X Support  • Antivirus, Spyware and Spam Removal/Support  • Smart Device Installation and Configuration - Blackberry, iPhone, iPad etc.  • Microsoft SQL Server 2008, 2012, 2014 installation and general administration  • Light Programming VBA, VB, HTML, CSS, ASP 3.0, SQL  • Installation, Support and Training of Distribution/Accounting Packages (Dynamics GP, TakeStock, AccountMate and Quickbooks)  • Network Monitoring Administration (ProcMon, Solarwinds)  • GPS and Time Management Software Support  • Helpdesk Software (ServiceNow, Helpdesk Pro)