Director of IT & Infrastructure Director of IT &amp; Infrastructure Salt Lake City, UT • Manage and pass monthly, quarterly and annual PCI/EI3PA tests to maintain certifications.  • Pass multiple in-depth audits by major financial institutions.  • Consulted for Stanford, University of Washington, and others on their design and implementation of  technology in new construction.  • Migrated department from in-house email and list serve to central campus Exchange based email.  • Committee member for the design of campus backbone infrastructure and wireless deployment.  • Defined University Hospital technology policy and procedures for HIPPA compliance.  • Created a technology infrastructure for a company that had none to one having a secure network with  integrated phone system, Exchange with smartphone support, web, and file services.  • Designed and implemented computer network at satellite office with multiple buildings using  emerging wireless technology.  • Presented at InfoFair 2007 on web based video conferencing and presentation applications.  • Named Top Consultant in Salt Lake Magazine's Top 100 Small Businesses July/August 1998. Work Experience Director of IT & Infrastructure November 2014 to Present • Move company infrastructure to Amazon Web Services.  • Architect and manage virtual infrastructure in datacenter (VMWare & Proxmox)  • Manage network and network security.  • Manage various network switches, routers, VPN, and firewall. (Cisco, Meraki, Sophos)  • Manage helpdesk and call center.  • Responsible for presenting and implementing new technologies.  • Create and maintain company policies for PCI and EI3PA Compliance.  • Create, enforce, test security and business continuity policies. Sr. Systems Administrator University of Utah September 2003 to November 2014 • Manage over 350 public, faculty and staff computers of various types among multiple facilities.  • Implement and manage distance education technology for various departments.  • Setup, secure and backup over 50 servers with varying OSes (Linux, Windows, Mac, Solaris).  • Implement and manage virtualization servers (VMWare) along with SAN arrays.  • Active Directory, Kerberos and Exchange management.  • Manage various network switches, routers, VPN, firewall and filtering devices.  • Responsible for presenting and implementing new technologies.  • Responsible for developing and implementing remote education technology.  • Responsible for multiple building security, cameras, audio visual, and other systems  • Hire, train and manage a helpdesk staff of both fulltime and part-time personnel.  • Develop and write budget proposals. CIO, Interm CFO ClassicStar, LLC May 2001 to September 2003 • Manage daily operations and finances for entire organization including remote offices.  • Design, setup and maintain web, mail, file, and database servers.  • Setup and manage networks and PBX system.  • Develop technologies to aid marketing group. Systems Administrator University of Utah June 1998 to May 2001 • Manage user accounts, security policies and procedures.  • Manage local network switches, routers, firewall, and modem pool.  • Website support and design.  • Digital media specialist. Education Bachelor of Science in Accounting in Accounting UNIVERSITY of UTAH - Salt Lake City, UT 1998 Links http://linkedin.com/in/hangcwong