Business Owner Business Owner Business Owner Weehawken, NJ To obtain a DevOps, SRE, or Developer position where I can leverage my programming and engineering skills. Work Experience Business Owner VettedByMarin - Weehawken, NJ August 2018 to August 2019 • Promoted products on Google, Instagram, and Facebook to generate sales.  • Maintained online product listings with up-to-date specifications and availability.  • Responded to customer inquiries in a timely manner.  • Coordinated with vendors and suppliers to replenish inventory.  • Coordinated with import and export companies to ship goods from Indonesia to U.S.A.  • Managed online stores available on Amazon, Bonanza, Ebay and Etsy market places.  • Prepared packages for sold products and shipped via USPS, UPS and FedEx. DevOps Engineer Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation - New York, NY May 2017 to July 2018 • Migrated windows scheduled tasks to Autosys  • Responsible for troubleshooting failed Autosys jobs  • Wrote documentation on how to set up Autosys jobs  • Wrote documentation on how to troubleshoot various Autosys job failures  • Created a script that generates EPS reports: Contract, Cashflow, and Leg files (written in python 3.4)  • Created a script that validates the contents of EPS reports (written in python 3.4)  • Created a script that collects performance metrics (CPU, Memory, Network, etc) from 500+ RedHat Linux hosts  • Created a script that generates static and interactive graphs for the performance metrics of 500+ RedHat Linux hosts  • Created a script that acts as a stand alone tool for generating sms alert notifications  • Created work flow diagrams for EPS reports: Contract, Cashflow, and Leg files  • Responsible for troubleshooting Solarwinds alerts  • Responsible for updating custom log monitoring templates for Solarwinds alerts (written in powershell 2)  • Wrote documentation on how to troubleshoot various application alerts in Solarwinds  • Consolidated various Bash, Perl, and Powershell scripts into a Python code  • Setup Git workflows to manage the version control of source code for C, C++, .NET, and Java applications.  • Built and managed a large deployment of over 500+ RedHat Linux hosts using Chef automation, which required custom recipes, cookbooks, and resources.  • Converted the dev test environments from Vagrant to Docker for over 100 applications.  • Used Kubernetes to arrange the deployment, scaling, and management of over 100 Docker containers.  • Wrote documentation for CI/CD pipeline (create repo, update code, rollback to previous revision, etc) DevOps Engineer Bittux - New York, NY May 2015 to December 2016 Bittux.com is a U.S. based crypto currency exchange that offers a secure and reliable trading platform for digital currencies such as BTC and LTC. Bittux provides reliable trading tools, flexible order entry, real time market data, account history analysis, and social media monitoring tools. The trading platform was developed with the following infrastructure - written in Python2.7.    • Trading API for BTC-e, BitStamp, BTC-China, and OKCOIN exchanges.  • Real Time Currency Calculator for USD, CNY, BTC, LTC.  • Real Time Market Data Feeds for BTC-e, BitStamp, BTC-China, and OKCOIN exchanges.  • Social Media Trend Analysis for Twitter.  • Email Notification Service.  • SMS Notification Service.  • Developed a set of automated tests for validating numerous market data applications against new RedHat OS releases and displaying the results from those tests in a web interface.    Test #1: Subscription - During this automated test, I perform subscriptions using a market data client. The test consists of a client performing snapshots using a preconfigured list of instruments in a loop for N number of iterations.    Test #2: Publication - During this automated test, I publish a series of updates using a market data publisher. The test consist of a publisher sending out multicast messages at a preconfigured publish rate.    The tools for carrying out both tests were developed in Python2.7, and Python3.5. The following packages were leveraged: Pandas, Subprocess, Threading, Matplot, Bokeh, Jinja2. Other technologies leveraged: CSS, JS, HTML, PDF Generation.    • Developed a script for comparing the contents of xml files that are nested within other xml files in Python3.5 by leveraging the xml.etree.ElementTree package.    • Developed a set of automation tools for developing a capacity management dashboard, which is used for trending machine resource levels. The scripts were developed in Python2.7. the following packages were leveraged: Django 1.1, Subprocess, Plotly, xml.etree.ElementTree, Matplot, Pandas. Other technologies leveraged: CSS, JS, HTML. Systems Reliability Engineer Nasdaq Exchange - New York, NY October 2012 to May 2015 • Responsible for creating a suite of automation tools used by support, development, and engineering teams.    • Provide real time support for various production trading environments (Nasdaq Exchange, Philadelphia Exchange, Boston Exchange, and the various routes to external venues).    • Worked out of Stockholm office for 6 months to provide training for Swedish NOC team.    • Daily tools: TMUX, GIT, CHEF, Core Monitor, HP Open View, Splunk, Tshark, AWK, SED, XARGS, Bash, Perl, Python    • Daily tasks: monitoring trading applications in real-time, prepping configuration changes, troubleshooting issues in real-time - hardware/software/network errors.    • Developed numerous Bash, Perl, and Python scripts that are actively used by the rest of the team (over 100 scripts). A few examples include:    Update_routing_equities.py - Python script - used to enable or disable the routing of all trade orders for a given routing destination - known as "Self Help"    Switch_discovery.pl - Perl script - runs TCP dump on a host and filters for CDP/LLDP messages to determine what switch is on the other end of an Ethernet port.    Failover_tradereporters.py - Python script - used to failover trade reporter applications.    Gateway_checker.pl - Perl script - used to determine if a gateway connection is up when we expected to be.    Terminals.pl - Perl script - automates the configuration of TMUX screen terminals.    Fix_logs.pl - Perl script - used to pull the fix logs from a java application and then translate the fix messages to a more readable format. Financial Systems Engineer NYSE Euronext - New York, NY October 2010 to October 2012 • Provide support for a wide variety of tier1 and tier2 market data feed handler products which include, but are not limited to, the following: CTA, NASDAQ, NYSE, XDPLIFFE, BATS, CMEMDP, BPOD, Direct Edge, CTF, RDF, Alpha, Pure, Omega, CHIX, TSX, Mama Cache, Super Book, Super Trade, Mama Dict, NSD.  • Knowledge of the following market data specific protocols: LBM, WMW, TCP, TibRV  • Daily tasks include: troubleshooting customer logs and configuration files, building replication environments, querying documentation, liaising between the client and development team, act as dispatcher for all new issues.  • Working environment: Red Hat 5 32 and 64 bit machines  • Developed over 20 Perl scripts that are actively used by the rest of the team.  • For example, I have a script that builds a replication environment in about 30 seconds. This includes the feed handler configurations, transport specific configurations, and client application configurations (this process normally takes 20-30 minutes if done manually).  • I wrote several technical documents that explain how to configure an application and how to manage it afterwards.  • I have been deployed for various client site engagements that range from a day to over two months.  • Traveled to our Belfast office and stayed for a week while working on a project. Unix Administrator Morgan Stanley - New York, NY August 2008 to October 2010 • Recent graduate of the Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Training program; Extensive use of VMware  • Developed Perl Scripts to automate simple to mid level routine tasks.  • Job duties included interaction and utilization of Network Services, Windows Environment, Unix/Linux Environment, Unix Scripting, Unix Networking, Windows XP/Red Hat Troubleshooting, and Perl Programming.  • Platform specific job duties include deploying and configuring integrations, deploy new sites to LIVE environments, create test environments, configure cron jobs, administer search servers and cache servers, configure web redirects. Performing security tasks such as monthly PCI security checks for Windows environment, rotating SSL certificates for sites, deploying patches to LIVE environment.  • System troubleshooting includes identifying stray processes, high CPU load, low disk space, file permissions, network services, apache logs, HTML, Perl scripts.  • Developed Perl script to generate weekly page impressions.  • Postgres SQL - daily queries, remove DB locks, mitigate high loads.  • Avaya Extreme Switch: configure vlans (voice, data), program IP phones.  • Cisco ASA 5505: basic configuration, setup SSH tunnels between office locations, firewall rules, port address translation.  • Developed and deployed various Perl scripts that would optimize an existing Netcool alerting application used by the firm. Some of the features provided by the scripts included the ability to detect flooding alerts from a given application and prevent those alerts from being propagated throughout the entire infrastructure. Restructured the distribution model to allow for a faster and more effective detection and prevention of flooding alerts; this was achieved by creating agents along the perimeter of the Netcool environment that would be able to handle flooding events as soon as they occurred.  • Responsible for creating an application that read in data from log files, which contained the individual disk utilization across all servers in our environment (on a per partition basis) and dynamically produce a graph, all via an on-line interface (using HTML/CGI). This application also included the ability to predict the date in which a particular partition on a given server would run out using a regression analysis. Desktop Administrator Marist College - Poughkeepsie, NY December 2005 to May 2007 • Troubleshooting both hardware and software issues relating to various computing devices  • Both on-site and over-the-phone troubleshooting for computer related issues  • Installation and support for various software applications.  • Routine maintenance of computer labs  • Deployment and configuration of new computers, printers (local and network)  • Provided phone support for Marist email and phone systems.    TECHNICAL SKILLS AND CERTIFICATIONS  • Version Control: Git, Subversion  • Configuration Management: Chef  • Job Management: Autosys, Cron  • Alert Management: PagerDuty, Nagios, Solarwinds, ITSM  • Application Containerization: Docker  • Application Scaling and Management: Kubernetes  • VM Management: Vagrant, VMware  • Linux Operating Systems: RedHat, Centos, Debian, OSX  • Linux Skills: Wireshark, T-Shark, Find, PS, Free, Top, Grep, Awk, Vim, Mount, FTP, TFTP, SSH, RPM, Tar, Diff, PGP, PGP, AWK, Sar, Sed, Regex  • Programming Skills: Bash, Perl, Python (Django, Pandas, Matplot, Bokeh, Plotly, Jinja2), Powershell, Java, Javascript, Css, Html, Visual Basic  • Networking Skills: Ping, NTP, DHCP, DNS, TraceRoute, Routing Protocols (RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP), Multicasting, Static Routing, VTP, NAT, PAT, ACL, CBAC, VPN, Ether Channel, Cisco IOS (Routers, Switches, Firewalls) Education B.S. in Information Technology and Systems Marist College - Poughkeepsie, NY