Data Center Facility Administrator Data Center Facility <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Data Center Facility Administrator Sykesville, MD In-depth knowledge and experience in Data Center Operation and Management. Critical Facilities Lifecycle Management of multiple unclassified and classified computing centers in a large Research and Development Campus environment. Champion industry best practices and innovative solutions to increase reliability, maintainability and efficiencies while reducing risk and increasing sustainability. Comfortable with the administration of Mechanical, Electrical and Plumbing (MEP) assets. Experienced with data center floor management. Work Experience Data Center Facility Administrator Johns Hopkins University - Laurel, MD 2002 to 2019 Information Technology Services Department / Information Services Server Group - Senior Professional Staff    Subject matter expert working with staff and partners to operate and maintain multiple classified and unclassified enterprise data centers to assure 100% uptime with emphasis on risk mitigation. Stakeholder's representative for the programming, design, build, commissioning, operation and maintenance of critical computing facility projects.Unique ability: Function as the mortar binding the building blocks of the data center. Generalist in multiple disciplines with ability to deep dive.    • Monitored overall Operation, Maintenance, and Modification of data center facility systems including: mechanical (HVAC, computer room air conditioners, in-row coolers, chillers), electrical (including UPS, PDU, generators, and transfer switches), fire detection and suppression, lighting, temperature control systems. Assured data centers increased reliability, uptime and efficiency in cost-effective ways which improved against the status quo.    • Scheduled and performed Raised Floor work: Rack installs and decommissioning. Energizing and de-energizing of racks. Grounding and bonding. Equipment racking and stacking. 3Phase power routing and balancing. Copper and Fiber network path routing, patching and troubleshooting. Coordinated with Networking Group for switch port configuration and support. Managed data center floors for maximum equipment reliability.    • Administrated 3rd Party Vendors including negotiating service proposals, scheduling of service and coordinating maintenance activities. Maintained vendor relationships. Scheduled and managed in-house staff for RPP retrofit, facility maintenance, repair and process development. Managed spare parts and supplies. Assured Maintenance Operating Procedures (MOPs) were understood and followed.    • Liaised with field service, technicians, engineers and commissioning agents for troubleshooting, verification and optimization of MEP and facility systems in pursuit of holistic data center goals. Continually searched for new opportunities to enhance processes and infrastructure for greater resiliency, efficiency and sustainability.    • Administered Nlyte's NEO Data Center Infrastructure Management (DCIM) application: Created, modified and sustained VISIO floor plans. Graphically plotted and customized remote SNMP sensors, meters and equipment. Defined alarm points. Utilized for data center floor capacity planning, environmental and systems monitoring as well as facility troubleshooting and inventory documentation.    • Utilized Johnson Controls Metasys BAS to monitor, trend and report on building and data center performance.    • Administered SharePoint Site. Created, maintained, updated SharePoint Site: both public facing and private service area for data center related information dissemination and situational awareness.    • Formulated Preventive Maintenance Schedules for the enterprise data centers. Identified single points of failure within each facilities MEP and controls. Coordinated outage schedule with an awareness of maintenance needs driven by single points of failure. Utilized scheduled outage windows to include upgrades, enhancements as well as retro-commissioning. Reduced unplanned outages. Improved data center efficiency, reliability and performance.    Projects:  • Teamed with Plant Engineering to upgrade Data Center B CRACs. Upgraded to variable speed fans with remote cold aisle sensors utilizing Liebert’s iCOM Optimized Aisle Control. Positioned sensors to maximize failover protection. Leveraged NEO DCIM for data trending. Compiled and analyzed performance data, adjusted and tuned. Saved >100 kWH from mechanical load, greatly reducing cost while improving performance and reliability.    • Conceived and executed plan to add new ATS and generator docking station to the Data Center A power grid. New docking station allowed for generator diversity; a secondary rollup generator may be brought online to supplement the primary. Next year testing exposed significant issues requiring extensive downtime to remediate. The new ATS and docking station allowed the datacenter to remain online and protected.    •Partnered with Plant Engineering to specify and select replacement of dual-redundant chillers for Data Center C. Conceptualized a 2Phase plan. Phase1: Install electrical and glycol “hitching post” in singular outage to facilitate roll-up chiller. Phase2: non-disruptive, one at a time “online” replacement of chillers. Oversaw summer and winter commissioning testing of new Free-cooling Chiller plant. Chiller redundancy/uptime maintained.    • Reprogrammed Corporate IT Recovery Center to a Production Data Center. Improvements included new PDUs and Remote Power Panels (RPPs), upgraded existing CRACs to incorporate Liebert’s iCOM controls as well as installing CRAC chimneys implementing a hot air return plenum. Installed power meters on MEP and IT power feeds for remote monitoring. This effort enhanced data center diversity for critical services.    • Programed, designed, built, and commissioned high-profile multi room computational SCIF suite. Acted as principal critical facility coordinator for project team. Created notional design. Worked to assure SCIF met programmatic, technical, security and corporate goals. Preemptively identified problematic issues and coordinated in collaborative environment to resolve optimizing quality of the end product.    • Programed, designed, built, commissioned and operated/maintained APL’s first High Density classified Colo data center (Data Center C). Collaborated with multiple departmental stakeholders. Preemptively identified problematic issues and coordinated cross-team to resolve keeping the project on time and on budget with add-alternate options included. Systems Administrator Johns Hopkins University - Laurel, MD 2002 to 2006 Information Technology Services Department / Information Services Server Group - Associate Professional Staff    As a Microsoft Domain Administrator for the new Information Technology Services Department consolidated departmental server resources and services to a best practice corporate IT infrastructure. Created a transparent user experience while transitioning the APL user community by utilizing back end server re-configurations, customized login scripts and group policies. Changed role to Data Center Facility Manager as server consolidation effort concluded.    • Setup and administered new data center centralized, KVM environment utilizing Single Sign-on for remote administration providing enhanced functionality and efficiency.    • Consolidated and grew Information Services Server Group's Test Lab Facility. Setup hardware test environments to speed the development, testing and implementation of new IT technologies.    • Filled new position of Datacenter Facility Manager. Reprogrammed datacenter raised floor as successful server consolidation efforts concluded and new server resources were brought online to increase IT portfolio.    • Managed the upgrade of the Bldg03 data center floor from a mainframe/Microcomputer oriented facility to a hot aisle/ cold aisle racked-server oriented configuration. Managed the upgrade of the Bldg01 computing center heat  rejection and raised floor configuration. Brought Bldg17 Recovery Center online adding diversity for critical IT systems. Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/gbrent-miller