Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Linux / UNIX System Administrator Novi, MI Summary:? 20 years of information technology experience in the private and public sectors; including global consulting firms, telecommunication companies, automotive manufacturers, engineering software companies, and a Department of Energy research laboratory.     Substantial experience in:    o System, network, and security administration  o System engineering & integration, technical architecture design, and application outsourcing  o Project leadership of global implementation and support teams Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Ann Arbor, MI September 2015 to Present Responsible for the deployment, implementation, and support of physical and virtual UNIX & Linux server technologies (Redhat, CentOS, Solaris, SUSE, and Oracle Exadata clusters). Perform additional system administration tasks such as shell scripting, performance tuning, patch management, security vulnerability remediation, and firmware updates. Support a diverse set of enterprise tools/applications including backup, monitoring, deployment, configuration management, and security auditing. System & Network Administrator CNS - Farmington Hills, MI June 2015 to September 2015 Installed, supported, and maintained a heterogeneous collection of servers, network devices, workstations, and client/server applications. Administered VMware (ESXi, vSphere, vCenter) servers and Cisco SourceFire /ASA network security devices. System & Network Administrator OST - Troy, MI August 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities  Responsible for the architecture, implementation, planning, and support of all I.T. infrastructure. Act as de facto I.T. manager with supervisory duties.    Administer Linux & Windows servers running within VMware and XenServer virtual server farms. Design, deploy, and support Oracle virtual machines for production and development environments. Maintain PBX systems (FreePBX/Asterisk). Support corporate website applications (ColdFusion, Apache, and MS-SQL databases). Maintain two data centers; including firewalls, routers, switches, and VPN devices. Develop and support applications within the Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud. Administer e-mail services (Kerio, Postfix, hMail). Maintain Nagios infrastructure monitoring environment and Linux terminal servers (LTSP). Systems Engineer Fast Switch - Dearborn, MI July 2013 to July 2014 Provided escalation-level System Administration support for 3000+ SUSE Enterprise Linux & IBM AIX servers (on physical hardware and VMware virtual systems) within Ford’s global data centers and manufacturing plants. Installed software, managed local & SAN-based file systems, monitored system performance, conducted security scans, responded to monitoring alerts, performed disaster recovery tests, resolved escalated service requests & incident tickets submitted by developers, engineers, architects, and application support teams. System Engineer/Consultant Select Resources - Ann Arbor, MI October 2012 to June 2013 Member of a DevOps team utilizing Agile software development methods to create a new, cloud-based, service oriented architecture using Amazon Web Services (AWS), Puppet, and other open source software tools. This role required a combination of UNIX system administration and system engineering skills to develop and deploy an automated, scalable, and resilient enterprise infrastructure. Engineer III Pacific Northwest National Laboratory - National Security Directorate / Cyber Security - Richland, WA July 2010 to August 2012 High Performance (Cloud) Computing - Designed, implemented, and documented a 28-node Citrix XenServer cloud, its network infrastructure, and the cloud management interface (CloudStack) for use as a cyber security research test bed.    • UNIX system administration - Sun Solaris and Red Hat Enterprise Linux hardware & software support    • VMware server administration -ESX server and guest workstation deployment & support Systems Engineer TekSystems - Farmington Hills, MI April 2010 to July 2010 UNIX system administration - Solaris server support Senior Systems Engineer Global Crossing Telecommunications - Southfield, MI July 2008 to January 2010 UNIX system administrator - provided 24/7 rotational, on-call hardware and software support for 650+ systems within several Tier 1 Internet Service Provider (ISP) data centers. Maintained a system availability monitoring infrastructure (Nagios). Supported EMC and HP EVA Storage Area Network (SAN) devices. Systems Analyst Accenture Technology Solutions - Southfield, MI August 2004 to July 2008 On site at The Dow Chemical Company    • UNIX system administrator individually responsible for 24/7 support of 90 servers running Solaris, HP-UX, IRIX, Linux, AIX and HP Digital UNIX.    • Lead Technical Specialist and Subject Matter Expert for Dow Chemical's global Treasury system    Responsible for daily project management and technical support of the Wall Street Systems financial software suite, its supporting middleware, and SWIFT banking applications. Designed, lead, and optimized annual disaster recovery plans for Treasury production environments.    Validated and improved controls over enterprise critical financial data to maintain Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) regulatory compliance. Assisted with yearly I.T. risk assessments and auditing initiatives.    Managed yearly support budgets and service level agreements (SLAs). Performed root cause analyses to eliminate repeat problems and minimize support costs.    Accenture Programs and Recognition:  • Career Counselor - accountable for employee career planning, development, and performance management  • Accenture Technology Solutions faculty - instructor for the Technical Architecture Design School course  • Accenture Core Values Award - management recognition of stewardship, integrity and value creation Systems Engineer INCAT - Novi, MI March 2004 to August 2004 Sourced as the I.T. Manager for the North American operations of an international Tier-1 automotive parts supplier. Systems Analyst Accenture Technology Solutions - Southfield, MI August 2003 to March 2004 On site at The Dow Chemical Company    Worked as part of the interdisciplinary and multi-vendor team that implemented Dow's global Treasury replacement system (Wall Street Systems). Assisted with software installation & configuration, created project documentation, and supplied UNIX system and network administration expertise. Senior System Administrator Infrastructure Systems Engineering Group - Southfield, MI May 2001 to June 2003 Individually responsible for the installation, management, and support of more than 100 UNIX & Windows systems and all related IT infrastructure for three regional offices. Technology Solutions Consultant Sprint E-Solutions (Paranet) - Southfield, MI August 1998 to May 2001 Provided UNIX system administration and consulting services for several U.S. and international customers System & Network Administrator / Application Engineer Tecnomatix Technologies - Novi, MI August 1995 to August 1998 Individually supported 80 UNIX & Windows systems and their related network infrastructure Technical Analyst Decision Consultants - Dearborn, MI January 1995 to August 1995 Installed, configured, and supported Sun workstations used in Computer Aided Design & Engineering (CAD/CAE) Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Michigan Technological University - Houghton, MI Skills UNIX Administration (Linux, Solaris, SGI, HP-UX, AIX), Windows Server Administration, IT Consulting, Networking, Disaster Recovery, Continuity of Operations, AWS, Xen Additional Information • Minor in Computer Engineering  • Advanced Foreign Language Certificate in German Language and Literature