Systems Analyst III <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst III SAS Administrator Oceanside, CA An experienced and certified SAS 9.2, 9.3, and 9.4 Administrator with a talent for  troubleshooting and working independently. Work Experience Systems Analyst III Hyundai AutoEver America - Fountain Valley, CA May 2018 to Present SAS Administrator for Hyundai and Kia. Project manager, developer, and administrator of AI chatbots. SAS Administrator United Healthcare - Minnetonka, MN 2013 to 2017 for the Medical Informatics Department of United Healthcare Group  supporting SAS 9.3 and 9.4. Responsible for maintaining test, development, staging,  and production SAS solutions on AIX and Windows as well as Futrix Health on Windows. Trained users on new procedures and features included in SAS updates as  well as new features realized in upgrading Enterprise Guide from 4.3 to 7.2. Was  responsible for ensuring Enterprise Guide was updated for the department. Trained  users on the benefits of ODS vs. DDE, and redeveloped reports as examples. Built and maintained a test AIX SAS server for evaluating upgrades to drivers, AIX, and SAS.  Primary contact for SAS sales, support, contracts, and invoices. Solved space issues by developing and automating a SAS program to monitor space usage on departmental  SAS servers that sent out emails to the top space users with an xls document detailing  space usage. IT and SAS Administrator Modern Analytics - San Diego, CA 2008 to 2013 Managed all servers in the datacenter, including Microsoft  Exchange, Active Directory, Data storage (Dell, Netapp), network and performance  issues. Systems Administrator and helpdesk. Support of all end user PC's and servers.  Support of the SAS analytics platform in a production and development environment.  Responsible for maintaining Dataflux development lab as well as Modern Analytics'  demo environment of multiple SAS EBI solutions.  VMWare ESXi installation, virtual machine creation, support and maintenance using  VMWare Infrastructure Client and Converter. IT for Modern Analytics has been  outsourced but Michael still retains some of his IT related duties. SAS Deployment  Deployed multiple SAS 9.2 EBI installations, internally and for Modern Analytics' clients.  Deployments also included Enterprise Guide, Text Miner, Enterprise Miner, Forecast  Studio and Forecast Server.  Deployed DataFlux, DMP and DIS on Windows Server 2003 and Red Hat Enterprise  Linux for testing and for internal training. Deployments also included Futrix SAS and web application.  Installed Windows XP, 2003 Server, and RHEL from scratch, set up database drivers, and installed JRE, JDK, JBoss, JUnit and ear2dir java class for .ear file expansion.  System User and group administration.    SAS Migration  Full SAS 9.1.3 to SAS 9.2 migrations on internal Modern Analytics' SAS solutions,  including standalone and multi machine solutions using the SMU tool. Also provided  partial promotion of metadata objects and their associated physical data from one SAS  9.2 solution to another.    SAS Administration  SAS 9.13, 9.2, and 9.3 administrator for all Modern Analytics' SAS systems as well as SAS administrator for Modern Analytics' clients. SAS Management Console  administration: users and groups, access control templates, and metadata roles.  Assigned DB2, ODBC, SAS Base, and Teradata database servers, mapped libraries  and registered tables. Responsible for maintaining and upgrading all SAS solutions at Modern Analytics, including a 15 host suite of SAS solutions designed to demonstrate  Modern Analytics' products to potential and existing clients. Increased performance of the web tier by extracting the .ear files into normal directories to enable faster loading by  JBoss. Upgrades included SAS application updates and configuration and re-deploying  web applications as needed. Responsible for performance tuning of large SAS projects  including users, permissions, and the hardware serving the SAS datasets. Planned the implementation of a unified storage solution to serve iscsi and 10 gigabit network  connections to speed up the access of SAS data for high profile clients. Performance  tuning by adjusting sortsize and memsize in sasv9.cfg file, assigning project directories  and macros in the SAS autoexec.sas file and creating a fast SAS temporary directory to speed up SAS data steps. Continual troubleshooting with SAS support. Responsible for  monitoring and responding to the Modern Analytics' SAS support ticket system,  delegating tasks, and responding to the client in a timely and professional manner.    Clients with Modern Analytics  SAS Administration  EMC, Westboro, MA. MGM Resorts, Las Vegas, NV. Health Care Services Corporation,  Dallas TX. Blue Cross Blue Shield, FL. Allergan, Irvine, CA.    SAS Implementations  US Cellular Corporation, Chicago, Il. Sempra, San Diego, CA. QBE Madison, WI.  Kohl's, Chicago, IL. Kelley Blue Book, Irvine CA. Wescom Credit Union, Irvine CA.  The Wine House Santa Monica CA. Education B.S. in MTSU Supercollider night school - Berkeley, CA Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/michael-whyte-01784732 Certifications/Licenses SAS Administration 9.2, 9.3, and 9.4. Present