Assistant Computer Systems Administrator Assistant Computer <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Assistant Computer Systems Administrator Philadelphia, PA Work Experience Assistant Computer Systems Administrator Federal Community Defenders Office - Philadelphia, PA June 2012 to May 2017 Supervisor: Aaron Haupt (610) 780-2868, may be contacted  Managed mission critical systems by protecting the integrity, availability, and confidentiality of the data  while allowing for the use of increased productivity, and litigation technology to aide legal staff. Installed, supported, and maintained both physical and virtual network VMware and Windows servers and appliances.  Deployed security patches to both VMware and Microsoft servers and end user computers to protect against vulnerabilities. Followed and updated written policies and procedures for IT securities. Tested, upgraded, and installed group policies to allow users to be protected against risks. Established and maintained user  accounts, profiles, file sharing, access privileges, and security using Active Directory. Upgraded VMWare  ESX host to version 5.5. Administered backup and anti-virus solutions with Symantec. Consolidated 3  physical servers into virtual machines hosted on 3 VMware ESXi servers. Oversaw and determined  timeframes for major IT projects including system updates, upgrades, migrations and outages. Implemented  and executed a plan to upgrade Microsoft Deployment Services on Windows Server 2016. Deployed, configured and maintained VCenter server.  • Palo Alto Networks IPS/IDS/Firewall knowledge.  • Designed and implemented VMware Virtual Desktop Infrastructure.  • Created a test environment for virtual desktop infrastructure for the users to reduce cost on equipment to meet budgetary cuts.  • Project manager for negotiating and procuring Access records document management and information  Management Company for storage to lower monthly cost.  • Planned, executed and finalized projects according to strict deadlines, delivering projects on time and within budget.  • Upgraded and implemented new Cisco VOIP Phone system for 250+ (Call Management v 9.1) users  across Verizon (MPLS) SIP which replace old Blackbox Network Nortel system. Completed on time and in budget. Manager of Information Technology Franklin Towne Charter Elementary School - Philadelphia, PA July 2011 to May 2012 Supervisor: Tim Loranger (267) 235-9388, may be contacted  Provided, operated, and maintained computing and telecommunications facilities, equipment, and service to meet the administrative and educational needs of the school. Responsible for all aspects of information  technology which included supervising employees, training IT staff, and overseeing daily IT operations.  Developed communication plans to convey project scope, goals, milestones, budget, risk, status, change  request and other critical issues to the business owner and the project team. Prepared and managed budget during building opening. Identified, analyzed, and prioritized elements of risk and the impact it would have  on the project. Prepared, created, and uploaded reports for Pennsylvania Information Management Systems  to be compliant with state regulations. Developed and implemented information technology policies and procedures. Preformed regular checks on network and data security. Analyzed the overall needs of the  departments and recommended ways to meet the objectives of the facilities goals.  • Designed training programs and workshops for staff.  • Proactively managed important and time-sensitive projects.  • Researched and purchased equipment within budgetary restraints.  • Designed, configured, and implemented network infrastructure for new facility.  • Worked with vendors to plan, stage, and oversee installation and implementation of projects.  • Responsible for providing written and verbal project communications, including weekly status, dashboards and project updates.    2  12434 Wyndom Road, Philadelphia, PA 19154  Jlk219@yahoo.com 267-254-9026 Network Administrator Franklin Towne Charter High School - Philadelphia, PA February 2009 to June 2011 Supervisor: Tim Loranger (267) 235-9388, may be contacted  Served as a team leader for three junior network administrators. Managed technical service for clients in the environment. Oversaw and maintained the integrity of the network infrastructure. Used Group Policy to  lockdown desktops within the network. Utilized Active Directory to manage user accounts and access  privileges. Updated network, application and security software. Ensured that Microsoft security updates and patches were applied to servers and workstations. Analyzed system logs and identified potential security risk  and/or issues with computers and servers. Proactively monitored anti-virus solutions. Performed routine  security and performance audits of system software and hardware. Applied operating system updates, patches, and configuration changes. Installed, configured and deployed multiple virtual user labs utilizing  VMware. Created, updated and cataloged systems and network documentation and topology diagrams.  • Knowledge of NetApp storage appliances.  • Maintained integrity of the network, server deployment, and security.  • Migrated Active Directory infrastructure from Server 2003 to Server 2008.  • Created and implemented more than 100 virtual clients for multiple labs for student body.  • Developed and initiated a preventive maintenance program to optimize machine performance and run  time.  • Responsible for the management of servers including regular and proactive monitoring of servers  responding to alerts. Network Administrator Gelt Financial - Huntingdon Valley, PA September 2007 to October 2008 Provided technical support for bank personnel. Installed, maintained and trained staff on financial and banking applications. Ensured system compatibility for data conversions, upgrades and migrations. Assisted  IT Director. Deployed Active Directory infrastructure and verified accuracy of antivirus signature  definitions. Installed necessary patches and software upgrades to clients and servers to ensure security  compliance with FDIC regulations. Specialized in back-end servers, high-availability and business  continuity. Modified website to maintain marketplace relevance.  • Implemented new mail accounts with Microsoft Exchange Server 2003.  • Optimized website for usability, search engine optimization and accessibility.  • Maintained service calls from end users and provided timely and courteous service while identifying and repairing problems with computers, printers and software applications.  • Managed enterprise vulnerability assessments and configuration patch and vulnerability scanning  tools.  • Maintained storage and backup, data restoration and ensured sufficient capacity and that the systems to operate as designed.  • Revamped Group Policy deployment after meeting with department heads and analyzing business  needs to provide optimal system performance.    3  12434 Wyndom Road, Philadelphia, PA 19154  Jlk219@yahoo.com 267-254-9026 Network Administrator McKesson - Moorestown, NJ July 2005 to January 2007 Oversaw network administration, client configuration, and technical support for users within the network.  Monitored and maintained user accounts using Active Directory. Support duties included responding to user reports of service interruptions, analyzing network logs to locate the source of the problem and  applying appropriate solutions. Client configuration included installing appropriate applications, and applying correct network settings. Responsible for maintaining tape backup systems. Scheduled  installations, relocations and repairs of computer equipment. Analyzed system requirements, including  business requirements, cost estimates and system design to recommend network improvements to senior  management. Resolved complex technical issues, ensuring high availability of all workstations, servers and network devices. Interfaced with vendors to obtain maximum service and cost effective solutions.  • Rewired 300-port patch panel to optimize existing bandwidth in Operation Center.  • Installed eight new Cisco switches and two new Cisco routers in Operation Center.  • Quickly addressed problems with proprietary software, collaborated with developers to rectify the issues and implemented a bug fix update.  • Modified existing Chrystal reports and developed new reports by analyzing databases, data sources and structures.  • Performed Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) control testing and complete review procedures for testing performed  by other team members.  • Performed data restorations for server, file system and or databases upon customer request in a calm and controlled fashion while maintaining consistent communication with the customer. Systems Administrator Willow Grove Bank - Horsham, PA April 1999 to July 2005 Supervised three junior administrators. Supported network of sixteen branches both remotely and on-site.  Performed diagnostic testing and troubleshooting. Setup and maintained servers, workstations, printers and network devices. Performed data conversions, system upgrades and migrations. Managed call center  functions, such as logging, documenting, ticket tracking and service call delegation. Collaborated with senior management to align IT with corporate strategy. Utilized project management concepts to facilitate  projects from inception to completion, including all facets of time, scope and quality management as well as budget and task administration.  • Oversaw network installation at four new branches, including workstation and server setup, WAN  communication, Server 2003 domain configuration and data replication to headquarters.  • Provided support to users with computer or other technical difficulties.  • Inventoried all network devices to promote better asset management.  • Effectively lead teams and inspire others to achieve goals through innovation, quality and excellence.  • Implemented and managed backups, performed data restores and resolved issues including  escalation, while working with the IT team to create solutions pertaining to the Managed Backup  Services.  • Work with external auditors during the annual audit and SOX audits and perform procedures at their direction. Education Bachelor of Science in Computing Technology & Security in Computing Technology & Security Drexel University Microsoft Certified Professional Bucks County College Diploma The Chubb Institute - Philadelphia, PA Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DHCP, NETWARE, VMWARE, DNS, IIS, ITIL, NETWORKING, SOLARWINDS, VIRTUALIZATION, DEPLOYMENT, SPLUNK, SYMANTEC, VOIP, PROJECT MANAGER, FTP, HTTP, SECURITY, MICROSOFT SECURITY Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFILE  A dedicated, customer-focused, and articulate IT professional with extensive technical and managerial  experience. Solid understanding of network engineering, including systems installation, configuration,  testing, administration and maintenance. Strong troubleshooting and problem solving skills in  troubleshooting hardware and software issues.    Experienced self-starting Network Administrator and Project Manager that works in a highly  independent manner, in a remote environment, routinely under high pressure and short-fused deadlines,  using my ability to not only track scheduled/on-going projects, but also to manage mission critical  systems and applications. Twenty years' experience as a Network Administrator with ten years focused  on administration with virtualization platforms utilizing VMware across several different industries.    Over the past two years my plan for accomplishment included maintaining a stable network  infrastructure as an independent contractor utilizing my adaptability, fundamental analytical and critical  thinking skills to implement solutions to both hardware and software configurations for complex  systems.    I am well versed in Project Management and possess sound leadership, driving team members towards  successful deliverables with projects from inception to completion. Over my career, I have used my  project management skills to ensure the efficient and cost-effective completion of over 100 projects. My  project work used the ITSM roles to assign ITIL processes to obtain successful project outcomes.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows 7/10, Vista and previous, Windows Server 2008-2016, SQL Server, Apple  OSX; Novell Netware 4.11 & 5.0; VMware vSphere and Hypervisor (ESXi)  5.0/6.0.  Hardware: Hewlett Packard MSA 2040 SAN, Barracuda Web Filter, Palo Alto, Cisco VoIP  phone system, Dell Power Edge servers, HP Proliant servers, IBM servers, Cisco  ASA 5510, HP ProCurve 2910al switches, HP SAN storage, Cisco manageable  switches, PC hardware troubleshooting and repair.  Software: VMware VCenter, VMWare View, Microsoft Office 2016, and previous, Lotus  Notes, Outlook, Call Management, SolarWinds, Veeam, Backup Exec, Symantec  Endpoint Protection version 11.5, Microsoft Security Essentials, Microsoft  Deployment Services, AVG, Avast, Splunk, X1, WASP (inventory software),  IPRO eScanIT, TrialDirector, Summation, CaseMap and IsysDesktop.  Networking & Security: Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, IIS, Project Management, VPNs, FTP, HTTP,  HTTPS, SNMP, Remote Administration, File and Print Sharing, IPv4.