Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Managed Hosting Sr. Systems Administrator Flower Mound, TX Work Experience Systems Engineer Ivy Associates August 2018 to September 2018 Administered network and servers for marketing company. Updated server security with anti-virus and server access technologies. Maintained close working relationship with network and desktop support teams. Tracked IP addresses throughout environment using SolarWinds and DHCP. Managed Hosting Sr. Systems Administrator SoftLayer / IBM Cloud January 2014 to August 2018 Provided support and administration of servers and networks for over 350 clients. Responsibilities included server and server application configuration, management and administration on Red Hat and Suse Linux, MS Windows Server 2008, 2012 R2 and 2016 as well as Linux and Windows servers running as virtual machines under VMware vSphere. Installed and configured ESX server networking and memory to optimize VM operations. Provided system updates, AV scanning, connectivity to SAN and advanced network engineering including routing, switching and firewalls.  Integrated Linux servers into customer Active Directory environments and applied group policy to Linux systems. Designed and rolled out AD / ADFS environments to allow management capabilities.  Monitored client servers using Computer Associates Nimsoft alerts. Worked with Ubuntu Linux running Vyatta firewall for multiple clients and various configurations. Worked on Cisco ASA to define rules and NAT configurations. Coordinated and worked with clients' IT staff to define server configurations and deployment. Sr. Systems Engineer Tek Systems / ISIS August 2012 to October 2013 Supporting over 300 physical and virtual Red Hat Linux 5.x, 6.x and Windows 2003 - 2008 servers running WebLogic, Oracle, Vordel, GemFire in a hosted ADFS environment. Servers support ISIS Wallet application. This was a new technology being tested in Salt Lake City, UT and Austin, TX.  Work with development and application teams to coordinate system configuration, application roll out and testing. Coordinate activities with data center system management and network teams. Managed server services including DNS, DHCP, web services, LAN and WAN technologies.  Implemented Splunk and Syslog-NG to enhance system log analysis and troubleshooting. Develop and update system architecture and design with engineering team. Oracle Solaris Engineer Verizon Systems May 2012 to July 2012 Supported Oracle (Sun) Solaris servers as part of Verizon's FIOS Home Control applications. Configured new zones to simulate a complete development environment. Added servers and zones to an OpenLDAP environment. Linux Engineer Tek Systems / ISIS March 2012 to April 2012 Systems Administrator / Engineer on contract to Sports Equipment Manufacturer. Supported 60+ MS Windows 2003, 2008 and Linux servers - physical and virtual running under VMware - across three sites in California and Texas.  Worked with SAP Applications Team on mounting new LUNs for an application upgrade. Confirmed stable SAN connectivity on Dev, QA, Stage and Prod systems. UNIX Systems Administrator J. Walter Thompson January 2011 to March 2012 Systems Administrator supporting the United States Marine Corps Recruiting Command web presence. Coordinated code pushes with web development teams and project managers. Pushed updated code via Subversion and Git. Maintained separate, secure sites for USMC recruiters to relay recruit PII and reports to command.  Maintained Linux servers running Sendmail as MTAs to pass recruit information to parents and candidates. MTAs integrated into Apache web servers.  Created sites using Apache, PHP 5.3 and Zend. Created and configured database back end on My SQL including security and permissions.  As part of a DICAP team initiated remote logging using Syslog-NG and log analysis using Splunk. Configured Syslog-NG on servers to dump logs to secure location and indexed logs with Splunk for ease of searching and reporting.  Servers used Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.7 and 5.6. Database servers ran MySQL 5.0-5.3. Coordinated load balancer, firewall and routing with RackSpace engineers. Sr. UNIX Systems Engineer DG FastChannel November 2009 to January 2011 SysAdmin on contract responsible for systems administration and maintenance on 150+ Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4 & 5, Sun Solaris 7-10 SPARC, Oracle WebLogic and databases, MySQL, Java and VMware ESX 3.5 & vSphere 4 servers. Configured VMware servers network and SAN resources. Setup Red Hat Linux and Windows 2008 virtual machines. Setup postfix to send alerts and logs to corporate mail servers (Exchange 2005). Updated Linux and Solaris servers with pertinent patches after stringent patch review. Provided kernel and system performance tuning to provide optimum systems for production applications. Maintained RHEL 5 clusters running Sybase. Dual-node clusters configured for Active-Passive with Compellent SAN. Assigned Systems Engineer Terremark World Wide June 2009 to November 2009 Assigned Engineer to handle a clients Windows 2003, 2008 servers and NetApp filers. Systems Engineer IV HealthMarkets, LP February 2007 to May 2009 Maintained a 100+ UNIX server environment that included Dell / Red Hat Linux, Sun / Solaris and IBM P570s and 520s running AIX 6.1 and 5.3 respectively. AIX servers used as Oracle data warehouses. Created and managed LPARs via the HMC and SMIT. Solaris and Linux servers running JBoss and MySQL were tied into Oracle databases. Technical Consultant Business Control Systems, LP August 2006 to February 2007 Managed and maintained national WAN, LAN and telcom infrastructure for growing IT Staffing firm. Windows Administrator III JC Penney / Business Control Systems May 2005 to August 2006 Provided support to Point of Sale terminal install teams. Systems Administrator ThinkSpark LP January 2005 to May 2005 Provided support to internal staff as well as network engineering consulting services to clients. Server Support Specialist Software Resources / The Walt Disney Company November 2004 to January 2005 Provided support on over 500 Windows NT 4, 2000, 2003 and UNIX (Solaris, Linux and AIX) servers to Walt Disney business units. Network Systems Administrator Computer Staffing / TrueBeginnings LLC June 2004 to September 2004 Field Artillery Fire Direction Specialist U.S Army March 1977 to December 1983 Honorable discharge, rank of sergeant, E-5. Education Certification Control Data Institute - Philadelphia, PA Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, Linux, Active Directory, Red Hat, Linux Administrator Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Sgt, E-5 Managed Artillery Fire Direction Control team. Calculated firing data and communicated to guns for indirect fire. Commendations: Army Achievement medal with cluster