Sr. Systems Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Sr. Systems Engineer - ICS/TTX Company Tinley Park, IL Versatile Systems Engineer with more than 15 years of experience planning, developing, testing and implementing Microsoft Server and desktop applications. Work Experience Sr. Systems Engineer ICS/TTX Company June 2017 to Present • Use VMware to manage data stores, virtual servers, virtual desktops, and system images.  • Use network monitoring tools like WhatsUp Gold, PRTG, and Cisco Meraki Dashboard to monitor network health and performance.  • Automate virtual server deployments using vRealize Automation.  • Manage Cisco Meraki switches, routers and access points.  • Restore files, folders, and snapshots from Rubrik backup solution  • Experience managing server replication using Zerto  • Experience configuring settings on F5 firewalls  • Experience configuring user access on BIG-IP APM (Access Policy Manager)  • Upgraded physical F5 High Availability BIG-IP APMs to virtual High Availability Sr. Systems Engineer Insight Global / HPE / U.S. Navy - San Diego, CA June 2016 to March 2017 • Use VMWare to create virtual machines for Quality Assurance testing of application software packages.  • Engineer and package software applications for Windows 10 implementation of US Navy workstations across CONUS.  • Implemented Office 365 as part of Windows 10 deployment to offer hosted services managed through an online portal.    • Experienced with Sharepoint, Lync, and Office 365 applications.    • Use Radia Client Automation for testing the successful delivery and installation of application packages to Windows workstations.  • Experienced using Powershell scripting for task automation.  • Use Team Foundations Server (TFS) to capture, prioritize, and track work to provide transparency and traceability for stakeholders as part of an Agile Team. Sr. Systems Engineer U.S. Army - Sierra Vista, AZ January 2013 to June 2016 • Used VMware to install, test, review and evaluate GPOs and Windows security updates for Army-wide dissemination to servers and workstations.  • Used ACAS, MBSA, SCAP and other scanning tools to detect, document, and mitigate vulnerabilities of Windows 2008/2008R2/2012/2012R2 servers and Windows 7/8/10 desktops.  • Experienced with using remote access solutions including VPN, Citrix/Terminal Services, and Remote Desktop Protocol  • Provided Tier III migration support to US Army installations throughout CONUS.  • Recorded change and problem activities in accordance with Change Management processes using IT Service Management (ITSM). Sr. Systems Administrator U.S. Army - Sierra Vista, AZ September 2008 to January 2013 • Managed Microsoft Active Directory, Exchange, and BlackBerry Enterprise servers.  • Implemented software and IT security policies according to BBP and STIG requirements.  • Managed Group Policy Objects (GPO) across all US Army domains.  • Provided technical support and service to over 400,000 US Army Enterprise Exchange users.  • Experience with Network Attached Storage (NAS) and Storage Area Network (SAN).  • Managed servers and desktops through SCCM/SCOM. Electronics Technician/Information Systems Technician United States Navy - Norfolk, VA August 2000 to July 2008 • Microsoft Exchange 5.5/2003 Administrator.  • Performed backups to unclassified and classified network servers to ensure data reliability and increase input/output performance.  • Set up, monitored, and troubleshoot Cisco routers and switches as part of a network solutions team supporting Joint Forces networks.  • Maintained, repaired, calibrated, tuned, and adjusted all shipboard electronic equipment used for communications, detection and tracking, recognition and identification, navigation, and electronic weapon countermeasures. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Western Governors University September 2020 Skills Microsoft Server (10+ years) Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-5 Certifications/Licenses MCSE MCSA MCP MCITP