Network Technician Network Technician Plumbing Sales - Ferguson Enterprises Virginia Beach, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Technician Ferguson Enterprises - Newport News, VA March 2014 to Present Network Build Analyst  As a member of the Branch of the Future and Network Build Teams, I worked with a team of talented and skilled technicians with the dual purposes of migrating more than 1,600 Ferguson locations to a unified Cisco  VoIP solution and provided day-to-day troubleshooting and tier III networking technical support to both administrative and branch employees.  ? Designed and documented migration and implementation procedures for branch conversion, including  standard operations and readiness checklists  ? Drafted and published Network Build Team job descriptions and provided candidate guidelines and technical litmus questions to assist contract companies in identifying and placing qualified candidates  ? Cisco Routers & Switches  ? Installed & configured hundreds of switches, routers and access points in Ferguson locations  across the United States and Canada  ? Performed quality assurance on branch build-outs and work orders, switch and router  configuration, ensured the branch needs were met in capacity and growth  ? Cisco Unified Communications  ? Configured and migrated over one hundred locations to Cisco Call Manager VoIP solutions  including server administration and client implementation Help Desk Manager Bunch CareSolutions, LLC - Lakeland, FL October 2008 to February 2014 Cisco Unified Communications Administrator  Managed team of five technicians with multiple skill levels performing soup to nuts support of 250+ remote  location employees using Citrix Metaframe and Cisco VoIP phones over home internet connections and ~500  local employees. Supplied planning, budget and purchasing of desktop and user level hardware and software as well as enterprise level support tools  ? Microsoft Windows  ? Administered Microsoft Windows Server 2003, 2008 and 2012 in support of a full Active  Directory forest, Microsoft Exchange, SharePoint, and SQL  ? Provided Tier I through III support for Microsoft Windows XP, Vista and Windows 7 as well as domain integration and maintenance  ? VMware  ? Provided both virtual desktops and servers for daily operations while maintaining remote access  for users, ensuring snapshots and availability.  ? Cisco Unified Communications and VoIP Solutions  ? Assumed and completed two year Cisco VoIP implementation, providing daily administration of CUCM and UCCX clusters, call recording and notification systems.  ? Citrix GoToAssist  ? Designed and implemented remote desktop support solution using Citrix service to provide best  possible support for remote users  ? Dell KACE  ? Implemented lifecycle management solution providing system availability, monitoring and preventative maintenance through a minimum customer impact solution. Systems Administrator Checkers Drive-In Restaurants, Inc - Tampa, FL September 2007 to October 2008 Performed dual roles of systems administrator and corporate help desk, supporting 200 users, both local and remote  ? Primary Support for a Microsoft Active Directory desktop and server operating environment running a wide variety of desktop applications, database administration and reporting, and virtualized servers for  Microsoft Exchange and Microsoft SQL Server systems.  ? Spearheaded projects aimed at maintaining high-availability and reduction of TCO. Systems Administrator The Telford Group - Bangor, ME March 2003 to August 2007 Responsible for all levels of IT operations from 1st tier desktop technical support through server  administration and departmental budgets  ? Grew IT <500% in response to company growth and need, expanding from 2 initial locations to 7  domestic and 3 international facilities  ? Detected and tracked system intrusion in legacy system, resulting in security improvements and Cisco  PIX security solution.  ? Established and maintained infrastructure and Mission Information Systems for DoD contracts  supporting Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom Systems Administrator OSRAM Sylvania Products, Inc - Bangor, ME 1998 to 2003 Managed both the 3-year Computer Integrated Manufacturing and 2-year Lyle-Kearsely Systems  projects, coordinating a fluid team  ? Exceptional project management and customer service skills and attention to detail earned a promotion  to a significantly larger plant  ? Worked with Detroit automotive companies in support of Linux based design and engineering Autocad  platform for automotive wiring and lighting components  ? Assembled a multi-discipline team of eight to define the scope and implement the plant's time and attendance system, KRONOS Workforce Central, completing the project on time and in budget Education Law Enforcement Maine Criminal Justice Academy - Augusta, ME CCNA in Networking Polk State College - Lakeland, FL Computer Science University of Maryland-University College - College Park, MD Law Enforcement Central Texas College - Killeen, TX Skills Cisco, Networking, Customer Service, Excel, IT Management, Network Administration, Vmware, Exchange Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) December 2018 to December 2021 The CCENT certification validates the skills required for entry-level network support positions, the starting point for many successful careers in networking. CCENT certified professionals have the knowledge and skill to install, operate, and troubleshoot a small enterprise branch network, including basic network security.