Lead systems technician Lead <span class="hl">systems</span> technician NETWORK ENGINEER / SENIOR ADMINISTRATOR Millersburg, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead systems technician Sunrise Communications - Onaway, MI November 2017 to Present Install internet, television, and VoIP service for residential and business customers. Troubleshoot and maintain cable plant infrastructure. Troubleshoot and install customer equipment. Recommend products to improve customers home entertainment experience. Resolve customer complaints rapidly within company guidelines. Supervise and train subordinate technicians. Home entertainment specialist WeConnect - Cheboygan, MI June 2017 to October 2017 Install satellite internet, video, and telephone equipment. Troubleshoot customer equipment issues and complete repairs in a timely manner. Report status within company ticketing system. Recommend products to customers based on available company offerings. NETWORK ENGINEER / SENIOR ADMINISTRATOR Joint Communications Unit - Fort Bragg, NC 2012 to May 2017 Recruited to administer and support network infrastructure for multiple task force communications sites in a 24/7 fast-paced, stressful and austere environment. Senior Administrator over 30+ sites, spread across multiple countries.  Provide technical expertise to identify needs, design solutions and resolve critical issues. Install, configure, administer and ensure optimal uptime of Windows 2008 / 2012 Domain Controllers, Exchange Server 2010, file, DHCP, print, NetApp, and Cisco video conferencing systems; and Cisco 2800, 2900, 3800, 3900, 3560, 3750, 4500, and 4900 series routers / switches. Monitor network performance, and provide Tier 1, 2 and 3 level supports to up to 5000 end users, peripherals and computer / network systems across multiple domains. Coordinated configuration, installation, and implementation of VMware ESXi, within vSphere 5, and 6 environments completing all Physical-to Virtual (P2V) migrations, Collaborate with multiple branches of U.S. military to provide network connectivity to users across Africa, the Middle East and Europe. Responsible for generating and maintaining accurate site documentation.  Selected Achievements:  • Monitored entire deployed enterprise supporting over 5000 personnel, improving the overall readiness of communication devices across the world.  • Successfully upgraded two fiber distribution sites in Afghanistan. Set-up and configured 4 classified and unclassified networks to support user growth from 50 to more than 300. Deployed Windows 2012, and Cisco switches and routers across Fiber communications infrastructure.  • Rebuilt main site infrastructure for existing communications site in Afghanistan to enhance user's productivity across 3 separate classified networks. Migrated 10 servers from Windows 2003 to 2008; set-up backup / recovery structure; and transferred all voice and data services with minimal disruption to operations.  • Led the upgrade of vCenter and ESXi upgrade from 5.5 to 6.0 without any service interruption in 2 data centers.  • Tested, validated, and integrated new technologies and equipment into the current enterprise architecture to include KLAS Voyager, Riverbed Steelhead, vSphere 6.0, Netapp data Ontap, and Cisco smart switches. SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR / NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR 112th Signal Battalion - Fort Bragg, NC 2007 to 2012 Responsible for providing end user support of windows, unix operating systems and associated peripherals as well as numerous software applications. Conducted installation and testing as required of Ethernet, coaxial, multi-mode fiber optic cable, single mode fiber optic cable both inside plant and outside plant as directed. Responsible for maintaining accurate infrastructure documentation  Selected Achievements:  • Installed an Armed Forces Network receive station and associated coaxial terminations to over 100 housing units  • Maintained Information Security compliance status information for 50+ deployed sites  • Installed and maintained numerous mobile communications packages in austere environments while providing 24/7 customer support Education Some college Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years), Project Planning (4 years), Customer Support (10+ years), Cabling, Coax, Low Voltage, Osha Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant First Class November 2003 to May 2017 Information Systems Technician Commendations: Defense Meritorious Service Medal  Army Commendation Medal  Army Achievement Medal Additional Information Core Competencies  • Infrastructure Design & Management  • Solutions Design & Implementation  • Hardware & Software Testing / Rollout    • Disaster Recovery & Business Continuity  • Project Planning & Management  • Team & End-User Training    • Asset Acquisition & Management  • Team Training & Leadership  • Global End-User Support