IT Support Specialist IT Support Specialist IT Support Specialist - NDT Global Spring, TX Innovative and accomplished IT professional with over 20 years of experience in IT management and system  administration. Noted for leveraging information system. Team-oriented and possess excellent analytical,  communication, organization, and leadership abilities. Work Experience IT Support Specialist NDT Global - Houston, TX 2015 to Present • Perform all levels of hardware and software systems support for the IT department of NDT Global office, managing  250 + Windows and Linux server environments and technologies for 700+ remote and onsite users and 400+ security  groups in 8 locations worldwide to provide access to the systems.  • Creating, maintaining and verifying backup jobs using Symantec backup exec 15 and VEEAM Backup software.  • Managed Group Policy Objects (GPOs) throughout the Active Directory (AD) enterprise.  • Negotiate Software, OS and updates deployment, hardware and software inventory via SCCM.  • Implemented from scratch and lead a new Security Awareness Program (KnowBe4) providing security awareness  training combined with simulated phishing attacks  • Re-engineer company's systems set up, establishing automated scripting server generation routines, optimizing system  performance, installing upgrades/patches, establishing system monitoring and maintaining security protocols.  • Responsible for AirWatch Administration for mobile security. SAN administration (Nimble) and Sophos UTM9 firewall  maintenance and administration.  • Strong understanding of VMware Networking concepts like creation of Standard and Distributed switch, different types  of port groups, NIC Teaming and VLAN Problem management on VMware ESXi 5.5. and 6.7.  • Developed organizational units in Active Directory (AD) and managed user security with group policies.  • Train employees across multiple departments on network operations including log-in procedures, network management  software, permissions, printing issues, security and use of the software. IT Manager Consilux - Caracas, VE 2008 to 2014 Collaborated with Systems Team to provide Windows administration, network LAN/WAN/VPN administration, VMware  ESXi administration, and intrusion detection and prevention (IDP) monitoring.  • Planned, implemented, and maintained Exchange servers, AD/DNS, wireless access points and load balancers, mobile  gadgets. Design and implement the Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources.  • Performed security testing & hardening. Wrote scripts to automate system administration tasks.  • Troubleshoot hardware & software; installed imagery & satellite software and development tools.  • Evaluated industry trends, standards and new technologies to recommend the change (i.e., evaluate and integrate new  OS versions, drivers and hardware.  • Made sure that all software and procedures, operating systems, server hardware aligned with enterprise standards and strategic business plan.  • Designed, implemented, installing and configure Microsoft Windows 2003 / 2008 Server.  • Troubleshoot and provided technical analysis concerning Operating system, network, and application performance  issues to resolution.  • Developed process improvements and other enhancements that improve operational efficiency as well as ensure data  security.  • Designed and implemented Backup and recovery plans.  • Resolved a history of problematic network failure by troubleshooting LAN/WAN connections between multiple  construction sites.  • Managed MS Active Directory, GPO Policies, and VMWare virtualization.  • Stabilized, expanded and protected the company network and PC environment. Built new file servers to maximize user  productivity, terminal server, file/print sharing, and domain control performance.  • Researched, recommended and implemented network enhancements that improved system reliability and performance. IT Systems Administrator JMC Young & Rubicam - Caracas, VE 2005 to 2008 IT Systems Administrator VMware - Caracas, VE 2003 to 2005 IT Support TBWA Technical - Caracas, VE 1999 to 2003 Education Associate in Industrial Design IUT Antonio José de Sucre - Caracas September 1996 to July 1999 Skills System Administrator (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Linux, System Admin, Vmware, Azure (5 years), Citrix (5 years), Windows server 2012 (7 years), Security (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/valmorequintero