Contract Desktop System Administrator Contract Desktop <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Contract Desktop System Administrator Oconomowoc, WI To be part of a team of IT professionals committed to deliver the highest level of service and  product that our clients expect. I have over 15 years of experience with Active Directory, Exchange,  Microsoft Server OS (Windows Server NT to Windows Server 2016), Microsoft Desktop OS  (Windows 7, Windows 8.1 and Windows 10) and the associated applications. Work Experience Contract Desktop System Administrator State of Wisconsin DWD January 2018 to April 2018 • Rework GPO configurations for Active Directory migration. Test GPO configurations in new Active Directory.  • Deploy software updates utilizing Ivanti Management Suites. Work with end user  community to verify updates. Contract Desktop System Administrator Bethesda Lutheran Services March 2016 to October 2017 • Develop and implement desktop/laptop deployment strategy.  • Develop and implement software distribution capabilities.  • Develop Windows update strategy utilizing Ivanti (LANDesk) Management utilities to replace  Microsoft WSUS.  • 2nd tier support for help desk technicians to assist with proper troubleshooting of computer  problems and present solutions to these problems.  • Provide technical support for 1200+ computers.  • Provide documentation for implementation of hardware and software solutions.  • Deployment of over 250 training computers and 300+ replacement computers. Contract Systems Administrator Velvac Corporation 2015 to 2015 • Managed local IT infrastructure including all computers, printers, network, phone system and help desk.  • Managed Microsoft Active Directory and Microsoft virtual server environment.  • Responsible for administration of Microsoft Exchange 2010 server environment.  • Support for all software including Microsoft Office 2010/2013. Systems Administrator Dematic Corporation - New Berlin, WI September 2010 to April 2014 Worked with key team members from both Dematic and HK Systems to integrate IT  functions from both companies as well as migrate HK Systems computer/user infrastructure into the Dematic network environment. This included over 800 computers/users at 4 main  sites along with over 50 virtual servers.  • Managed local IT infrastructure including computers, printers, network communications,  telephone system and local help desk. Also supported customer support environment that  included over 50 virtual server environments as well as over 130 virtual PC environments.  • Experience with VMWare implementation to accommodate Microsoft Hyper-V to VMWare  transition. Transferred over 130 Microsoft Hyper-V virtual environments to VMWare  • Lead implementation plan of PC workstation migration from Windows XP to Windows 7.  • Support MS Lync installation and implementation. Senior Systems Administrator June 2005 to September 2010 Experience with Microsoft Server builds for both customers and infrastructure solutions.  This includes standalone hardware as well as virtual environments. Experience with adding  database applications including Oracle and SQL database applications. Also experienced with installing HK Systems customized applications for customer deliverable solutions. I  have built over 200 servers (virtual and physical) for infrastructure support as well as more  than 200 servers for customer deliverable solutions.  • Lead position coordinating all Microsoft related technology and support for the corporate  office and four field offices. This included Active Directory, Group Policy, DHCP and  DNS. Implemented and managed MS WSUS and Trend Micro Antivirus for servers and  PCs across entire enterprise.  • Coordination of Microsoft physical and virtual environment of over 200 servers and over 800 PCs.  • Maintained Microsoft virtual environments including Hyper-V (200+ servers) and MS  Virtual Server (120+ clients).  • Strategic lead with design/build of MS domain upgrade and management.  • Lead migration from UNIX mail system to Microsoft Exchange 2003. Lead team member of project to set up Microsoft Exchange server environment, upgrade MS Office  workstation on 800+ computers, migrate data from UNIX mail environment to MS Outlook and provide training to end users on the new MS mail environment.  • Developed PC imaging standards for the entire corporation.  • Managed help desk environment. This included oversight of help desk functionality, day to day supervision of tasks and follow up with overdue tasks.  • Installation/support of MS OCS across entire enterprise. Systems Administrator 1998 to 2005 Project Engineer 1995 to 1998 Design Engineer 1990 to 1995 Education Mathematics University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee, WI Additional Information • Primary lead for Microsoft hardware and software implementations including all associated  applications and upgrades. This includes planning, scheduling and impact analysis to  minimize business continuity disruption.  • Strong background in system monitoring and troubleshooting, both on server and desktop  platforms.  • Provide documentation for all processes and procedures related to distribution and  implementation of software and hardware.  • Extensive experience supporting training initiatives with direct communication with training  instructors and managers to implement the best solution.  • Ivanti (formerly LANDesk) Management and Security Suite administration, including  Windows image deployment, software deployment and Windows security updates.  • Microsoft Windows Server 2003/2008/2012/2016 implementation from ground up, both  on virtual and physical platforms.  • Microsoft Windows 7/Windows 8.1/Windows 10 workstation installation, configuration  and troubleshooting, both from ground up and image deployment.  • Microsoft 2003/2008/2012 Active Directory and Group Policy management.  • Knowledgeable in Microsoft network environments including TCPIP, DHCP and DNS.  • Microsoft Exchange 2010 administration.    • Microsoft WSUS installation, configuration and management.  • Microsoft Hyper-V/Microsoft Virtual Server administration including migration from  hardware based servers to virtual servers and Microsoft virtual server conversions to  VMware.  • Troubleshooting issues with virtual environments including local site to customer site issues.  • Design and development of PC imaging standards using Symantec Ghost and Ivanti  Management Suite.  • Data Center environments to maintain 24/7 uptime including security, HVAC, PDU and  physical facility requirements.  • Extensive hardware experience with Dell, HP and Lenovo computers, both desktop and  laptop platforms.  • Extensive hardware experience with Dell and HP server platforms.  • Remote management tool implementation and use: Microsoft Remote Desktop Connection,  VNC, PC Anywhere and like products.  • Troubleshooting customer access issues with VPN clients and remote connectivity.  • Trend Micro Antivirus installation, configuration and administration for servers and  workstations across an enterprise environment.  • Sophos Antivirus endpoint management.  • Symantec Endpoint Protection installation and management.  • Symantec Backup Exec implementation and management.  • VMWare implementation for conversion from Microsoft Hyper-V clients to VMWare  clients.  • Honeywell ProWatch Security systems including design and implementation of facility  security infrastructure, badging systems, cameras and perimeter protection. Interaction with  HR to determine best practice for corporate policies regarding facility security.  • Installation, administration and troubleshooting of PolyCom video conference systems.  • Extensive work with project teams and customers to determine hardware/software requirements to  meet customer expectations. This would include complex solutions to automated warehousing  systems requiring servers/workstations and network requirements.