Risk Advisory Services Audit Associate Risk Advisory Services Audit Associate Risk Advisory Services Audit Associate - Yount, Hyde & Barbour Martinsburg, WV Work Experience Risk Advisory Services Audit Associate Yount, Hyde & Barbour - Winchester, VA May 2018 to Present • Design and conduct testing to complete the following engagements:  ? IT Audits based on COBIT  ? System and Organization Control (SOC) Audits  ? IT Controls testing to support financial audit engagements  • Test IT Controls, including:  ? Information Security Policies  ? Data backup and retention practices  ? Disaster Recovery plan analysis  ? User Access controls evaluation and testing  ? Cybersecurity controls0  ? Vulnerability Scans via Nessus Software  ? Phishing tests via PhishingBox software  • Serve as part of YHB internal help desk  ? Perform server updates/patching on YHB's internal network  ? Desktop and laptop imaging  ? Phone system configuration and deployment  ? Worked daily help desk ticketing system Junior Systems Administrator USCG, Operations Systems Center - Kearneysville, WV April 2016 to May 2018 Platform as a Service (PaaS):  • Worked alone and as part of team to help maintain servers  • Worked with Windows and Linux servers (drive space issues, patching, agent resets)  • Experience with the vulnerability program ACAS - find and research vulnerabilities from security scans  • Researched vulnerability findings on the Tenable website  • Experience researching and remediating STIG findings on servers, completed STIG checklists for Windows Server and Red Hat Linux  ? STIG checklists consisted of logging into servers and verifying several security settings  • Experience with BMC BladeLogic Server Automation Application    Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS):  • Researched a Cloud Object Storage solution (Cleversafe)  • Learned about backups and storage on a Data Floor and assisted with technical documentation  • Experience handling Blade Servers in a Data Center environment Education B.S. Shepherd University May 2018