Senior Exalogic Engineer and Fusion Middleware Systems Administrator Senior Exalogic Engineer and Fusion Middleware <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Systems and Software Engineer Columbus, OH Work Experience Senior Exalogic Engineer and Fusion Middleware Systems Administrator Mythics, Inc - Virginia Beach, VA March 2018 to March 2019 Clients- State of Ohio, SCGTS, and State of California (Fi$cal)    • Participate in the design, engineering, configuration, operation and maintenance of secure and scalable enterprise hardware and software infrastructure.  • Collaborate with information security partners and coordinate risk management of automation devices and deployment of security efforts to mitigate risk • Document installation and configuration standards for Engineered Systems and applications deployed on this platform.  • Troubleshoot and resolve issues affecting enterprise hardware and platform software infrastructure.  • Develop and maintain understanding of key processes, schedules, cycles, profiles, etc. for the technical systems in use by a customer.  • Provides timely and accurate problem resolution to maintain productivity and business continuity for the LEU and other business areas.  • Provide regular, clear, and consistent communication (written and oral) on the status of projects, issues, and deliverable to representatives from the customer/vendor.  • Provide application support for Oracle WebLogic, Oracle PeopleSoft Tools 8.53, MFT, SOA, OSB, BPEL OIM, and Oracle Exalogic/Exadata (Linux and Windows) • Perform activities in support of a 24x7 global support model for all environments within Managed Services framework.  • Work with vendor technical support such as, Oracle Support to facilitate analysis of and resolution to technical issues. Fusion Middleware Systems Administrator TEKSystems - Independence, OH May 2017 to March 2018 Client: The J.M.Smucker Company    • Worked as part of a development team within an Agile Framework to lunch the Agile-EDI Integration Project • Provided platform technical specifications for enterprise application deployments, ensuring the optimal utilization of Operating Systems platform.  • Upgraded/patched the platform technology software versions.  • Planned, coordinated, and implemented security measures to safeguard information against accidental or unauthorized damage, modification or disclosure.  • Participated in server hardware/software lifecycle management.  • Troubleshooted and resolved issues affecting enterprise hardware and platform software infrastructure • Monitored Red Hat 6.7 Operating System platform with monitoring systems like Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c to identify and recommend incidents/alternatives/enhancements.  • Implemented disaster planning/mitigation/recovery practices.  • Evaluate innovative technologies and conduct product proof of concepts.  • Experienced with installing and configuring Oracle WebLogic clusters • Experienced in running diagnostic scripts to determine and pinpoint system errors/failures • Work with vendor technical support such as, Oracle Support to facilitate analysis of and resolution to technical issues.  • Monitored all processes for Oracle SOA, BPEL, OSB, and other applications such as, TibCo, EDI, and GSX processes • Provided regular, clear, and consistent communication (written and oral) on the status of projects, issues, and deliverables to representatives from the customer/vendor. Senior Exalogic Systems Engineer Sherwin Williams - Cleveland, OH October 2016 to March 2017 • Managed and Configured users and access for Enterprise Manager Ops Center (EMOC) • Performed system administration activities with respect to Exalogic Server Administration • Performed OS Administration (Linux) activities - Configured users, creating and maintain file systems, backup, creating new virtual application environments, etc.  • Configured CPU, memory, and disk partitions as required • ZFS Storage Administration, and re-configuring the disk group sizes as per client requirements • Executed Exacheck reports on Exadata/Exalogic • Handled OEM & ILOM alerts for all virtual environments • Backup (ExaBR) and Report Generation (Exachk, Exalogs) backup configurations.  • Configured DDBoost and Data Domains mount points • Provided infrastructure support to Exalogic, Exadata, and Exalytics systems • Configured Active Directory for a corporate-enterprise environment • Contributed to platform migration strategies for Engineered Systems.  • Provided input to creation of rolling maintenance plan of all engineered systems to minimize business downtime.  • Partnered with business, technical, and vendor contacts to discuss the requirements and help develop solution design/ system architecture. Sr. Engineered Systems Engineer BuzzClan LLC - Dallas, TX April 2015 to March 2017 Clients: City of Phoenix, Sherwin Williams, Key Bank    • Clustering on WebLogic and Oc4j both.  • Configure and migrate Operating System, Middleware Applications, and Database.  • Configuring and installing OBIEE, WebLogic Server, and Database.  • Responsible for WebLogic HA architectural concepts • Worked on Oracle FMW products (SOA Suite, OSB, ODI, Web Center, and WebLogic) • Support Oracle SOA and SOA composite services, spring framework • Deploying, configuring, and validating SOA composite applications.  • Installation and configuration of OBIEE in Unix platform • Architect, Administrator and Consultant for highly available Clustered solutions using Oracle Fusion Middleware products (Oracle SOA Suite, Oracle WebLogic Server, Oracle WebCenter Suite, Oracle ECM Suite, Oracle IDM Suite & Oracle Web Tier, Coherence, Enterprise Manager 11g/12c) • Install & Configure Oracle Webcenter Suite 11g on Linux environments • Work involving Oracle FMW products (SOA Suite, OSB, ODI, Web Center, and WebLogic) • Installed and configured different Oracle Fusion Middleware products.  • Implemented backup procedures for different clients using Oracle fusion middleware • Implemented Performance tuning for different Oracle middleware products including SOA Suite &WebLogic • Installed and configured BPM 11g • Supported OBIEE 11g in both non-prod and prod environments • Implemented performance tuning for Oracle BPM 11g • Extensive experience in production support for Oracle FMW products • Installed WebLogic/SOA on Linux environment • Configure/Monitor Exalogic systems (Physical/Virtual) • Install and administer clustered H/A middleware environments.  • Install & Configure Exalogic (WebCenter/UCM/OHS/WLS).  • Experience configuring JMS and data-sources.  • Configuring and monitoring the multi environments.  • Troubleshooting/Performance Tuning Oracle EM12c, FMW, and Fusion Apps production Deployments • Managed and administrated Exalogic using OEM and managing Exalogic using CLI/Graphical user interfaces • Managed and Configured users' access for Linux systems • Applied PSU patches to Exalogic rack • Administered Exalogic Elastic cloud (Physical and Virtual) • Interacting with Oracle support • Configure/Monitor control stack (EC, PC1, and PC2) for Exalogic Virtual.  • Utilized ExaBr for Backup processes and report generation (Exachk, Exalogs).  • Managed and administered Exadata/Exalogic components like InfiniBand switches, ZFS storage, compute nodes.  • Handled OEM & ILOM alerts for all the Environment • Monitored using EM 12c &Implementation of EM12c installation for multiple data centers • Managed and administrated Exalogic using OEM and managing Exalogic using CLI/Graphical user interfaces.  • Performed Performance Tuning for both Database & Oracle Fusion Middleware products • Implemented Backup and Recovery Procedures for different Oracle Fusion Middleware products • Responsible for the accounts payable purchase orders • Patching and troubleshooting on SOA/BPEL.  • Oracle Fusion Middleware experience in variety of different environments like Windows (NT/2005 Server, and different flavors of UNIX (IBM-AIX, Linux).  • Perform allocations; run daily cost center, and related reports; evaluate discrepancies and make corrections as appropriate. Prepare responses to correspondence containing routine inquiries.  • Worked involving Oracle FMW products (SOA Suite, OSB, ODI, Web Center, and WebLogic).  • Worked on WebLogic application servers including installation and configuration of WebLogic Domains • Organized and retrieved (electronic and hard copy) corporate documents, records, and production reports • Performed general ledger accounting and financial reporting duties • Reviewed time sheets and followed up with plant manager and production supervisors • Edited any missed time punches and missed or late meal periods.  • Facilitated communication with all Agency staff providing a focal point for all service delivery statistics • Operated closely with each program director to gather and maintain statistical information of all services provided through the agency • Extensive experience in handling Production SOA Fusion middleware and Troubleshooting • Diagnosed Problems & Programmatically Managing SOA Composite Applications. Remote Senior Exalogic Systems Engineer Key Bank - Cleveland, OH October 2015 to October 2016 • Participated in installing and configuring Oracle WebLogic clusters • Configured and monitored control stack (EC, PC1, and PC2) for Exalogic environment • Remotely monitored all Exalogic data traffic with Oracle Traffic Directory, EM12c, WebLogic, and EM Ops Center • Experienced with Oracle Banking Platform, Oracle RAC, Oracle Identity Manager, and Oracle Access Manager.  • Troubleshooted and performed tuning processes for Oracle EM12c, FMW, FMW applications for production and nonproduction deployments.  • Experienced in running diagnostic scripts to determine and pinpoint system errors/failures • Imported and exported SSL certificates on the Web tier and Domain levels.  • Hardware systems, networking, storage and server virtualization technologies Senior Exalogic Systems Engineer City of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ June 2015 to July 2015 • Performed system administration activities with respect to Exalogic Server Administration • Work closely with Oracle GSC support for keeping the Exalogic Server current with Oracle QDPF, BP/PSU/ESS patches, etc.  • Perform OS Administration (Linux or Solaris) activities - Configuring users, creating and maintain file systems, backup, creating new virtual application environments, etc., • Installing, configuring and WebLogic Server on Exalogic servers • ZFS Storage Administration, and re-configuring the disk group sizes on client requirements • Running EXAcheck reports on Exadata/Exalogic • Handled OEM & ILOM alerts for all virtual environments • Backup (ExaBR) and Report Generation (Exachks, Exalogs) backup configurations. Education Master of Arts Texas Woman's University - Denton, TX December 2013 Bachelor of Arts University of North Texas - Denton, TX December 2011 Skills SECURITY (8 years), Oracle SOA (6 years), TOMCAT, WEB SERVER, Oracle WebLogic (6 years), Linux (6 years), Windows Server R2 2012 (4 years), System Administrator, Active Directory, DNS, Vmware, Embedded, Powershell, Cisco, AWS Certifications/Licenses Oracle WebLogic Server 12c Certified Implementation Specialist October 2018 to Present Certified Scrum Master (CSM) February 2019 to February 2021 Additional Information • An accomplished professional with around 5+ years of administrative experience on different products  • Highly resourceful, confident, and motivated to achieve set goals, Strong analytical, writing, and research capabilities consultant  • Extensive experience with Installation, Configuration, Administration and Performance tuning of Oracle WebLogic Application Server running for Oracle SOA 12c within a clustered environment  • Expertise in Infrastructure designing and setups especially with Oracle Fusion Middleware Products (Oracle SOA Suite, Oracle WebLogic Server & Oracle Web-Tier)  • Monitored and resolved issues on Oracle Exalogic (X2-2, X3-2, X4-2)  • Experienced with running Oracle Engineered System utility scripts such as, Exachks, and ExaBr, ibnetdiscover, enablesm, and env_test.  • Performed pre-platinum patching tasks such as ZFS snapshots, resolving filesystem space on the compute nodes for Oracle Exalogic environments  • Experience with computer systems, including desktop publishing, and spreadsheet programs, as well as other statistical data analysis tools  • Administrated & Support Oracle WebLogic Server 10.3.6-12.2.1 versions  • Experience in HTML, PHP, and JavaScript coding language  • Experience in configuration of large non-profit database systems such as ALICE and Integrated Tracking Systems [ITS] with QuickBooks accounting software  • Installed and configured Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c (Linux OS)  • Troubleshooted adr incidents within OMS  • Installation & configuration of Oracle Enterprise Manager 13.2.0.0 (Windows OS)  • Monitored all these targets using EM12c and 13c (Databases, Middle-Tier, App-Tier, Web-Tier, Engineered Systems).  • Experience with Troubleshooting Advanced WebLogic Server Automation  • Create and deployed SOA projects and composites in JDeveloper for Oracle MFT to invoke  • Created specialized scripts for JMS Resources to run on Oracle WebLogic Server 12.2.1  • Implemented different management packs (WebLogic management pack, database management pack, Exalogic & Exadata plug-ins & SOA management pack etc.) for robust and effective monitoring.  • Installed and Configured Oracle Virtual Manager (OVM) 3.0.1.iso image  • Assisted with implementing application changes for Agile Integration of SOA11g and EDI  • Participated in implementing migrating procedures of SOA11g to 12c on Exalogic  • Installation & Configuration versions Oracle SOA 11g and 12.2.1 versions.  • Experienced with enabling JVM Tuning for different WebLogic containers  • Patching and troubleshooting on SOA/BPEL/OSB/OWSM  • Implemented optimization settings for WebLogic clustering within an Exalogic/Exadata typology  • Installed and Configured Oracle WebCenter Suite 11g    Technical Skills:  • Database: Oracle 12c/11g/10g, RAC11g/10g, Oracle SQL Developer, MySQL  • App Server: Oracle WebLogic Server, Oracle Tuxedo, Oracle iPlanet Web Server  • Oracle Fusion Middleware Products: Oracle SOA Suite 10g/11g (OAM, SOA, OAM, ODI, OBIEE, OID), Oracle WebTier11g, BPM, Oracle PeopleSoft, Phire, Oracle WebCenter  • Web Server: Oracle HTTP Server, Apache, Tomcat  • Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, C++, C, UNIX Shell Scripting  • Operating System: Red Hat Linux, Unix, Oracle Solaris 11g, Unix (Linux, IBM), Oracle Linux 6/7, Windows  • Virtualization: Citrix, VM Ware Workstation, Azure, Oracle VM Server for x86, Windows Server 2012 R2, Red Hat  • Security: CompTIA Security +, CASP, and CEH  • Network: Nmap, John the Ripper, CISCO, Wireshark, and Splunk  • Cloud Platforms: AWS, Azure, OCI, and Google Cloud  • Service Delivery Management: ITIL Foundation and Scrum Master    Tools/ Utilities: IDE, collaboration, UML Design and Testing - Oracle Fusion Middleware Console, Enterprise Manager 12c/13c, Enterprise Manager OPS Center, OEM/OAM, RMAN, AD tools, Putty, Bitvise SSH Client, X-windows, JDeveloper, JRockit Mission Control.