IT analyst IT analyst IT Analyst Portland, OR As a technology junkie since grade school, I have decided to turn my passion into a career. Graduating recently, I will continue to further my knowledge through certifications with the hopes of one day becoming a Chief Technology Officer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT analyst Creative Testing Solutions - Tempe, AZ February 2019 to Present • First contact for IT error documentation and escalation from the six   • blood labs across the United States.   • Monitoring of CTS IT infrastructure including; data servers, CPU’s, nationwide nodes and lab equipment  Systems Programmer/Junior Systems Administrator ECD Systems - Tempe, AZ March 2018 to October 2018 • Remote programming of a large array of systems including; camera systems, nurse call systems, access control, intrusion systems and audio systems.   • Troubleshooting of client network issues and the maintenance of our internal network, including active directory and virtual server changes.  Technical Specialist Apple Store at San Tan Village May 2018 to September 2018 Assessing needs of customers when they arrive and providing solutions to their technical issues. Flexibility to regularly rotate through a multitude of technical specialties and skill sets, able to thrive as products regularly change in store and quickly learn new features and uses. Data Center Technician TEKsystems at Apple Mesa - Mesa, AZ November 2017 to March 2018 • Racking and stacking servers using elevation plans. Server installations. Cat6, DAC and fiber optic cabling.   • Following ticketing systems for requests and maintaining accurate documentation on closed requests, installs.  PC Technician Dell Technologies - Gilbert, AZ September 2017 to December 2017 Three month contract for Dell on site at The Boeing Company - Install and support laptops, desktops, printers and phone systems. Troubleshoot network connectivity issues. Set up new workstations/hardware. Configure voice/telecom systems Media Services Assistant Mesa Community College - Mesa, AZ August 2016 to September 2017 Assist with various IT Repair & Installations around the Mesa Community College campus. Education Bachelors in Technology Management Northern Arizona University - Flagstaff, AZ August 2018 to August 2019 Certification Cisco Networking Academy - Mesa, AZ 2018 Skills C++ (Less than 1 year), HYPER-V (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (2 years), NETWORK CABLING (3 years), Programming (1 year), Integration (1 year), Vmware (1 year), VM Certifications/Licenses AMAG technical certification July 2018 to July 2019 Additional Information Skills and Certifications  Skilled network cabling, C++ experience. Windows OS 7, 8, 8.1, 10. ASB Servers. Server Manager and Hyper-V manager proficiency. Microsoft office administrator. AMAG Technical certification