Security Officer Security Officer Security Field Supervisor / Systems Administrator Anaheim, CA Law Enforcement Career Progression. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Officer Securitas - Anaheim, CA June 2019 to Present Systems Administrator United States Marine Corps June 2017 to January 2019 -Analyzed equipment performance records in order to determine the need for repair and replacement.  -Executed daily operations of server maintenance.  -Planned, coordinated, and implemented network security measures in order to protect classified data, software, and hardware.  -Maintained an inventory of parts for emergency repairs.  -Trained and managed 35 Marines and achieved significant  improvements in their productivity.  -Researched new technology and implemented it and recommended  its implementation.  -Trained Marines in servers and computer hardware.  -Maintained logs related to network functions, as well as maintenance and repair records.  -Supervised and managed servers for Marine Corps Air Ground  Combat Center Twentynine Palms.  -Conferred with network users about how to solve existing system  problems.  -Diagnosed hardware and software problems, and replaced defective  components.  -Successfully managed a 4-person team.  -Performed data backups and disaster recovery operations.  -Successfully handled classified material.  -Maintained and administered computer networks and related  computing environments, including computer hardware, systems  software, applications software, and all configurations.  -Structured and maintained a secure workplace.  -Operated master consoles in order to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer  network access and use.  -Designed, configured, and tested computer hardware, networking  software and operating system software.  -Performed routine network startup and shutdown procedures, and maintained control records.  -Served as an Administrator for the Department of Defense.  -Recommended changes to improve systems and network configurations, and determined hardware and software requirements  related to such changes.  -Gathered data pertaining to customer needs, and used the information to identify, predict, interpret, and evaluate system and  network requirements.  -Monitored network performance in order to determine whether adjustments needed to be made, and to determine where changes  will need to be made in the future.  -Responded to written and telephone requests for server, internet, or exchange problems.  -Trained people in computer system use.  -Loaded computer tapes and disks, and installed software and printer  paper and forms. Store Manager Kobe Express Fine Japanese Restaurant - Durant, OK January 2017 to June 2017 Entrepreneur Hogan Aerial Photography - Sonoma, CA January 2016 to June 2017 Education High School Diploma Archbishop Hanna High School 2017 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Security (2 years), Firearms (2 years), Linux, Linux Administrator, Active Directory Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Corporal June 2017 to January 2019 Certifications/Licenses California Guard Card July 2019 to Present