Network Administrator Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - United States Army Noblesville, IN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator United States Army November 2015 to Present Currently working as a contractor for the US Army in a COOP  datacenter. Daily tasks include administration of a network comprised of    mainly Cisco devices, such as Nexus and Catalyst series switches, ASRs,    ASAs, InfoBlox DNS, and F5 Load Balancers. This involves the    configuration and troubleshooting of LAN/WAN issues across multiple  devices and platforms to include IOS, NXOS, ESXI/VMware, and all  infrastructure hardware. Other responsibilities include coordination with commercial vendors to supply telecoms circuits to both ourselves and  other building tenants. This can include assisting in the troubleshooting of Ethernet circuits, optical circuits, and DS3s once they have been  delivered. Systems Engineer Van Ausdall & Farrar June 2015 to November 2015 Supported small to medium business clientele as part of a managed IT  services team. Daily tasks included LAN and server troubleshooting, help  desk tickets, and on-boarding new clients by documenting their current IT  infrastructure. Major accomplishments include redesigning a small client's  local network to utilize VLANs to alleviate network congestion. Diverse Tech Services / Jr. Network Engineer March 2015 to June 2015 Provided remote desktop troubleshooting to a large user base. VMware/VDI  ? troubleshooting and research of specific issues. Train end users on best Education B.S. in Information Technology Western Governors University March 2015 A.A.S. in Visual Programming Ivy Tech Community College June 2012 Skills Networking, Technical Support, Vmware, Active Directory, Windows, Cisco, DNS, Exchange Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rebccxdyseclcki Critical Thinking — Expert July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jgrqhgvnuedytnyw Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.