TLM Project Manager TLM Project Manager TLM Project Manager Virginia Beach, VA • (3Y) experience within logistics operations management as it relates to maintaining distribution centers and smart warehouses.    • (3Y) Managed and utilized APIs and Exchange to Exchange (E2E) interfaces from one application (like ecommerce platform) to expose software services like; (order management, catalog content, customer profile data etc..) to other applications. Allowing the two systems to "talk" to each other.    • (2Y) project management, e-commerce, sourcing and procurement analytics experience; collaborated with top executives, clients, suppliers and vendors about the cost and benefits of a new project in order to justify the expense for procurement opportunities.    • (3Y) Oversee Kronos human capital management (HCM) cloud suite implementations within new business development projects in order to provide streamlined operations, reduced operating costs and improve profitability.    • (5Y) Aided in vetting new vendor partners for cloud integrated CRM sales platforms - salesforce, commission system to align with new labor agreements and new accounts payable system. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience TLM Project Manager Automated Data Processing - Norfolk, VA January 2019 to Present ADP) Automated Data Processing, Norfolk, VA  (Hybrid) TLM Project Manager Solutions Consultant - SAAS  Project Services Dept. Major & National Accounts (50-1000+ Employees)  (Fortune 250 Technology Company) (January 2019 - Present)    • Builds and configures test and production (live) Kronos and ADP account databases within hosted SQL, Linux or Windows server environments for each client, in addition to full on support, configuration and roll out of Advanced Scheduler, Kronos for Time, Accruals, Attendance and Leave.    • Guides and trains clients through pre and post implementation of complex system configurations of labor level sets, rounding and punch interpretation rules, schedule shifts and patterns, pay code distribution tables, work rules and pay rules, combination and hidden pay codes in both union and non-union based environments within Kronos Workforce Central Suite, ADP eTime, ADP ezLabor, etc.    • Analyzes existing client systems, interface requirements, operational needs, etc. in order to create a statement of work (SOW), counsel clients in the functional system design and/or system configurations and/or product adaptation of client's needs.    • Oversees integration of both Kronos and other (ERP) Enterprise Resource Planning systems, utilizing and configuring interfaces using workforce integration manager (WIM) to help maintain compliance, mitigate risk, improve efficiencies and drive growth, while guiding client and/or teams on functional design and integration into client's infrastructure.    • Assesses, manages, resolves and escalates (if necessary) risks and issues within the Salesforce CRM platform, while ensuring milestones are successfully met throughout the life cycle of assigned applications implementations as well as oversight of project vehicles and coordination of resources.    • Performs a thorough business analysis of their company processes in order to configure and troubleshoot both 4500 & InTouch Kronos time clock terminals with or without biometric functions while also utilizing Microsoft excel Pivot Tables & V-Look Ups for daily manipulation which includes importing and exporting of large data sets like; employee names, SSN, pay policies, schedules, rules etc. Business Application Analyst II Human Services Quality Assurance - Virginia Beach, VA April 2018 to January 2019 April 2018 - January 2019)    • Manage the Enterprise Electronic Health (EHR) record system supporting over five hundred users providing technical, administrative and reporting solutions including client chart reviews for QA corrections.    • Helped plan, direct and co-ordinate activities of multiple projects ranging in value from $100k to $1.2m in the areas of IT, systems integration and business process management and re-engineering.    • Performs daily operations and management of a data driven environment creating custom reports, databases, and workflows, utilizes Accela Automation practices including scripting for extracting data from SQL Server databases and other automated business application programs.    • Helped to train staff in new software, hardware, database, and web-based applications as well as developed training materials/manuals in order to streamline work processes and procedures for automation and basic level troubleshooting.    • Researched and resolved issues related to user/employee accounts within windows AD and Kronos workforce central suite, group memberships and access permissions to ensure customer satisfaction with company applications and other integrated ERP systems. Business Systems Analyst Trainee / LAN Administrator III Norfolk Southern Corporation - Norfolk, VA October 2016 to March 2018 October 2016 - March 2018    • Six Month Norfolk Southern Business MGMT Trainee Program; regarding becoming a liaison translating business needs into system requirements, communicating with the business on a non-technical level and with the system analyst on a more technical level.    • Manage assets, inventory, user accounts, security protocols, permissions & rights including GPOs via, AirWatch (MDM) Mobile Device Management, Active Directory and PowerShell CMD, while monitoring systems security and responding to security incidents and ensuring integrity and confidentiality of sensitive data. Computer Systems Analyst Riverside Regional Medical Center - Newport News, VA March 2016 to October 2016 iCare) Epic implementation Project Contractor  (March 2016 - October 2016)    • Met with management regularly in order to learn and understand the business goals in order to align, articulate and execute the projects vision/goal, objectives, success metrics/criteria, value proposition, key users and user scenarios.    • Performed storage virtualization for data migration and consolidation within a Microsoft environment while configuring and upgrading security enhancements to the Intellidose platform and other software, hardware and network systems. Systems Administrator Project Coordinator Perfect Commerce - Newport News, VA November 2015 to April 2016 • Leadership oversight for end-user computing and client services, coordinating issues with executives on application security protocols, while delegating user permissions through MS Azure AD, while also whitelisting/blacklisting programs and networks via (Local Group Policy)    • Manage vendor relationships including negotiating and controlling contracts, while keeping track of key milestones and adjusted project plans accordingly.    • Administrator of IT Operations and all components within the organization's information systems which included installing, configuring and maintaining hardware and software spam filtering, patch management, desktop & laptop computers, printers, routers, etc. Education Master of Science in Engineering Management University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL 2019 to Present Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Business Administration Strayer University - Virginia Beach, VA December 2016 Associate of Applied Science in Multimedia Engineering & Online Marketing Tidewater Community College - Virginia Beach, VA December 2014 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, ENCRYPTION, EXCHANGE, NETWORKING, VMWARE, SAAS, ARIBA, SECURITY, EPM, ORACLE, CERNER, KRONOS, IAAS, PAAS, CRM, SAP, EMAIL ENCRYPTION, INFORMATION SECURITY, RSA, TOKENS Links http://linkedin.com/in/lynellfreeman Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Business Software  • GS1 Standards (Business Communication)  • Bluebeam Revu  • Oracle / IR Studio  • Adobe Creative Cloud  • Venzee Big Data (PIM)  • Kronos Workforce Central Suite v7/8 & Newer  • QuickBooks Enterprise Online  • SAP Cloud (Ariba, BPC, EPM)  • Salesforce (CRM) Cloud Platform  • Cerner Community Works (Health Records)    Security Skills / Software  • Zixmail Email Encryption  • VMware Airwatch MGMT  • RSA SecurID Access (Mobile Soft Tokens)  • Entrust Identity Guard (Mobile Soft Tokens)    SOFT SKILLS    • Ensures complete security, confidentiality, reliability and integrity of corporate data, proprietary information and intellectual property.    • Experience with (1000+ user) active directory management, information security, exchange, storage, basic networking, backup and encryption, imaging & cloud computing (as it relates to Platform (PaaS), Infrastructure (IaaS) and Software (SaaS).