Special Intelligence Communications Operator / Night Shift Systems NCOIC Special Intelligence Communications Operator / Night Shift <span class="hl">Systems</span> NCOIC Special Intelligence Communications Operator / Night Shift Systems NCOIC Oceanside, CA Accomplished systems administrator with 8+ years of experience in managing server infrastructures, data center operations, basic  to advance troubleshooting support. Effectively plan, install, configure and optimize the IT infrastructure to consistently achieve  high availability and performance.  Proven ability to work under high-stress, fast paced environment. Skilled problem identifier and troubleshooter, comfortable  managing systems, projects and teams in a range of IT environments.  Highlights of I.T. Skills    Active Directory proficient Active TS/SCI Security Clearance  Network configuration and support Ability to learn new procedures quickly and efficiently.  VMWare experience Self-starter  Computer diagnostics and repair Exceptional troubleshooter  Hardware support and troubleshooting Highly motivated  Disaster recovery environments Resourceful  Web content filtering Effective team leader  Virus and spyware removal Team player  A+ and SEC+ certified Work Experience Special Intelligence Communications Operator / Night Shift Systems NCOIC United States Marine Corps January 2014 to October 2014 01/2014 to 10/2014  United States Marine Corps. Camp Leatherneck, Afghanistan  Camp Yurista, Camp Leatherneck, Helmand Province Afghanistan  Provided support to over 150+ users directly at 1st Marine Expeditionary Brigade Command Element C-2. Provided Windows/ Server Special Intelligence System Administrator / Systems Chief United States Marine Corps - Camp Pendleton, CA 2011 to January 2011 1st Marine Expeditionary Force, Command Element G-2 Systems  Del Mar, Camp Pendleton California:  Provide support to the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force and regional subordinate commands with technical hands-on network  administration and engineering support for internal architectures. Performed basic troubleshooting for Video Teleconference operations.  Responsible for providing technical support for Marine Corps JWICS/SIPR/CENTRIX/APIIN/NIPR communications, network and intelligence systems within the 1st MEF G-2 and subordinate sections. Operated the Systems helpdesk in support of over 90+  individuals, to include support of server operations and network operations. Maintained Hardware and Inventory for the G-2 Section  classified material. Created/managed accounts for the G-2 section, and conducted audits to maintain DoD Information Assurance  compliance.  Key Contributions:  Installed and configured NetApp network attached storage increasing the productivity of 200+ users throughout the G-2 and subordinate commands.  Maintained Electronic Key Management System (EKMS) keymat for TS/SCI video teleconference monthly.  Troubleshooted and resolved print server outage effecting over 500+ users across Del Mar.  Created Symantec Norton Ghost SIPR image for 90+ computers including all up to date Microsoft patches and intelligence  analyst programs  Evaluated, conducted troubleshooting, and improved the network configurations and security across four different  classifications of routing networks comprising of more than S1,800,000 in equipment. Greatly improved the network efficiency along with information storage and recovery. Improved the network administrators ability to rapidly respond to outages  Successful deployment to Camp Leatherneck, Helmand Province Afghanistan IT Consultant / Technician Plus IT Inc - Stockton, CA February 2008 to January 2011 Provided IT solutions in the local area of Stockton Ca. to the residential and small businesses. Specialized virus removal and operating  system software troubleshooting. Scheduled, coordinated and deployed server/client updates and preventative maintenance with limited  downtime.  Key Contributions:  Configured and installed routers, switches and wireless controllers.  Troubleshot and resolved Internet connectivity and general software and hardware issues.  Server maintenance  Server management  Help desk support  Made service calls to the local area of Stockton, Ca.  http://www.plusitinc.com/ Information Assurance 2008 to 2008 polices. Coordinate with C-2 Systems personnel for continuity of operations and de-confliction with timelines for important regional objectives.  Key Contributions  Responsible for providing services to more than 600+ Intelligence Personnel and more than 70+ separate systems.  Resolved over 900+ trouble tickets throughout the deployment  Planned the Architectural Development of the Sensitive Compartmented Information Communications Infrastructure.  Revamped SIPR image with Norton Ghost for 150+ computers, including all up to date Microsoft patches and intelligence  analyst programs  Conducted meetings and facilitate communication with supporting institutions and programs in and out of country.  Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective  components when necessary.  Managed the MEB-A G-2 Classified Material Control Center (CMCC) accounts consisting of over 200 classified items. During  this period, conducted and supervised daily site-count accountability and monthly serialized inventories, maintaining 100%  accountability. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Science San Joaquin Delta College - Stockton, CA 2012 Skills Active Directory proficient, Active TS/SCI Security Clearance, Network configuration and support, Ability to learn new procedures quickly and efficiently., VMWare experience, Self-starter, Computer diagnostics and repair, Exceptional troubleshooter, Hardware support and troubleshooting, Highly motivated, Disaster recovery environments, Resourceful, Web content filtering, Effective team leader, Virus and spyware removal, Team player, A+ and SEC+ certified Awards Awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal 2013-10 Maintained 50+ communication systems to include VoIPs, printers, laptops on unclassified and classified networks.  Developed and maintained A MEB G-2 share drive allowing a large amount of production efforts to be shared and disseminated  to users in multiple locations.  Resolved numerous issues with MAKO IRC program Awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal 2015-05 Responsible for the G-2 Systems Help Desk operations for over 300 users across five separate network enclaves.  Evaluated, conducted troubleshooting, and improved the network configurations and security across four different  classifications of routing networks comprising of more than S1,800,000 in equipment.  Increased the efficiency of the RC(SW) 0-2 helpdesk procedures by implementing a customized SharePoint trouble-ticket system  to address and track the progress to completion of over 1400 trouble-calls.  Conducted the proper maintenance of network services required for operational functionality of sections beyond the RC(SW)  C-2 that resided in Camp Yurista, to include Joint Prosecution and Exploitation Center, Biometrics, Counter Improvised  Explosive Device (CIED), and Special Technical Operations (STO).  During this period, conducted and supervised daily site-count accountability and monthly serialized inventories, maintaining  100% accountability. Additionally, supervised and conducted the efforts to properly dispose of over 2000 classified hard  drives, coordinating his efforts with the RC (SW) C-2 Special Security Officer and RC(SW) Command Element CMCC Program  Manager.