Linux System Engineer Linux <span class="hl">System</span> Engineer Linux System Engineer - Global Technology Associates Silver Spring, MD • Solid experience working as Linux Systems Administrator  • Attentive, service-oriented and certified customer service specialist and aspiring IT professional known for providing excellent customer support. Capable of making sound business decisions while working independently and collaboratively in teams  • Technically proficient with ability to handle a variety of projects and apply focused problem-solving strengths to overcome challenges  • Open source enthusiast with a primary focus on Linux and systems administration. Experience working in a fast-paced team oriented environment Work Experience Linux System Engineer Global Technology Associates - Reston, VA January 2019 to Present • Provided top-notch customer service communication and responsible for network oversight and software testing  • Administration of servers based on Linux, CentOS and RHEL 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 which includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading and loading patches, troubleshooting.  • Working with Hardware and Software issues and troubleshooting them, does Change Management if a failure occurs.  • Identifying issues and troubleshooting them, escalating issues to the concern department.  • Ability to browse filesystem and check log files.  • Performed daily backup or weekly backup using rsync utilities.  • Created profiles in Ansible and pushed them across all the servers in Linux environment.  • Patched up the systems with the Linux servers and created tickets for the respective services to handle the issue.  • Worked on virtual and physical Linux hosts and involved in day to day administrative activities such as maintaining user accounts, password management, providing advanced file permissions to specific users etc.  • Installation, configuration and upgrade of Redhat Linux 3/4/5, VMware 4/5/6 operating systems.  • RPM and YUM package installations, patch and other server management.  • Used Nagios as a network monitoring tool.  • Set up user and group login ID's, printing parameters, network configuration, password, resolving permissions issues, user and group quota.  • Troubleshoot user account issues and network related connectivity issues  • Completion of the projects within the deadline. Linux Systems Administrator Chantilly, VA March 2017 to December 2018 • Supported organization with system administration task and addressed/resolved technical requests.  • Administration of Linux and RHEL 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 which includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading and loading patches, troubleshooting both physical and virtual server issues  • Troubleshooting Linux network, security related issues, capturing packets using tools such as Iptables, firewall, TCP wrappers, NMAP  • Planned, scheduled and Implemented OS patches on Linux boxes as a part of proactive maintenance and Secure Shell (SSH) implementation  • Preparing Standard Methods of procedures and testing the same before any major changes to the server  • Organizing meetings with clients to know their requirements.  • Creating, cloning Linux Virtual Machines, templates using VMware Virtual Client 3.5.-  • Planning and implementing system upgrades including hardware, operating system and periodical patch upgrades.  • Used Nagios as a network monitoring tool.  • RPM and YUM package installations, patch and other server management.  • Managing systems routine backup, scheduling jobs like disabling and enabling cron jobs, enabling system logging, network logging of servers for maintenance, performance tuning, testing.  • Creation of groups, adding User ID to a group as a primary or secondary group, removing User ID from a group.  • Set up user and group login ID's, printing parameters, network configuration, password, resolving permissions issues, user and group quota.  • Trouble shooting User's login & home directory related issues.  • Configuration of network equipment for newly builds servers.  • Disk replacement (Root disk / Data disk).  • Configuring and monitoring Disk mirroring, striping using LVM System Engineer Securitas - Manhattan, NY June 2016 to February 2017 • Provided top-notch customer service communication and responsible for network oversight and maintenance.  • Monitor security programs and alerts for anomalous behavior.  • Performs troubleshooting actions when necessary.  • Monitor IT Help Desk system and work tasks.  • Installation configuring and testing of TCP/IP based servers like DNS, NFS, and NIS services  • Monitoring and reporting to the issues based in the alerts.  • User/File system Management and maintained the OS File systems below Threshold Value.  • Monitored the Hardware Logs and follow with Vendors to Correct the defective parts.  • Engaged Vendor for any hardware issues (Troubleshooting/Replacement).  • Handled critical outages effectively minimizing the downtime of the servers.  • Designed and maintained mission critical applications in 24*7 supports on Linux servers.  • Identifying issues and troubleshooting them, escalating issues to the concern department.  • Maintains open communication and positive working relationship with staff.  • Perform other duties/projects as assigned    Core Strengths:  • Customer Service  • Team Collaboration  • Technical Acumen  • Troubleshooting  • Quick Learner  • Hands-On Learning  • Conflict Resolution  • Communication Skills  • Help Desk Support Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Lagos - Lagos, NG 2013 Skills Apache, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Unix, Dhcp, Nfs, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Dns, Nagios, Ftp, Http, Smtp, Ms access, Mysql, Bash, Jira, Scripting, Ms office, Vmware, Rhel, Redhat, Linux Administrator, Kernel