Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - Bayerische Motoren Werke US 3.4+ years of IT Professional experience in Linux Administrator and Application Support.  • Good at UNIX admin activities and shell scripting.  • Worked as Systems Engineer by providing production support - Level 2 for Output Management:  KWOM and CAPPO.  • Managed complete Output Management technology for a major car manufacturer BMW which  includes Installation, upgrades, migration, configuration, maintenance, and troubleshooting on  various OS platforms like UNIX, Windows.  • Commendable knowledge in using Stream serve application and SC Venus tool. Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Bayerische Motoren Werke June 2015 to Present BMW Founded in 1917 is now one of the ten largest car manufacturers in the world and, with its  BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce brands, possesses three of the strongest premium brands in the car  industry. The group also has a strong market position in the motorcycle sector and operates a successful  financial services business. The company aims to generate profitable growth and above-average returns by focusing on the premium segments of the international automobile markets.    Responsibilities:    • Responsible for service delivery and support, including Installation, configuration, incident,  problem, change management within defined Operational Level Agreements.  • Contacting Customer on Escalation/Support/Implementation events.  • Participating in weekly and Monthly calls with customers.  • Handling Incoming Service Requests German/English.  • Provides support on a rotation basis. 24 x 7.  • Provides periodic updates to the customers, co-workers, and management on the status of outstanding issues.  • Updates status of issues in the incident tracking system and performs appropriate follow-up on escalated issues.  • Assists senior team members with complex issues to gain experience and exposure to more  advanced problems.  • Contributing in review and maintaining the knowledge base / documentation content on an ongoing basis.  • Infosys Certified ITIL (Incident, Problem management, Change management, Service Desk). Application Support and Linux administrator Infosys limited January 2015 to May 2015 Hyderabad from jun 1st, 2015 to till date.    Achievements:  • Acknowledged as a high performer in Infosys Limited    • Rated and awarded as Outstanding Performer in the quarter Q3 - 2017.  Project Details:    Project Title: Application Basis Support. Education Bachelor of Technology in CSE RGUKT-Nuzivid University Additional Information Technical skills:    Platforms: LINUX, Windows  Text Editors: VI editor, Ultra Edit  Software and Tools: Stream serve, SC Venus, VPSX, Oracle SQL developer, BMC Remedy, ITSM  Languages: C, UNIX shell scripting, Oracle PL/SQL  Databases: Oracle 11g and DB2