Senior Manager (Network Systems Administrator) Senior Manager (Network <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>) Senior Manager (Military Intelligence Network Administrator) - UNITED STATES ARMY Hinesville, GA Seeking an opportunity to continue gaining experience as a Network Systems Integrator/Maintainer with Top Secret clearance (35T); building customer/client relationships, andoperations management/organizational leadership. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Manager (Network Systems Administrator) UNITED STATES ARMY - Fort Stewart, GA August 2015 to Present • Analyze system, user requirements, and procedures to automate processing or to improveexisting network system.  • Support the installation, implementation, troubleshooting and maintenance of agency wide- area networks (WANs) and local-area networks (LANs).  • Assist in designing and managing the WAN infrastructure and any processes related to the  WAN.  • Provide support to network including day-to-day operation, monitoring and problem  resolution.  • Provide second-tier problem identification, diagnosis and resolution of problems.  • Review network system capabilities, workflow, and scheduling limitations to determine if requested program or program change is possible within existing system.  • Document network project development, upgrade system and correct errors to maintain system after implementation.  • Prepare workflow charts and diagrams to specify in detail operations to be performed by equipment and computer programs and operations to be performed by personnel in system.  • Managed 20 personnel in 2 operational missions; conduct weekly progress report meetings.  • Coordinate with upper management/customers and ensure they are satisfied with the results of services rendered.  • Analyze operations and implement strategic initiatives that maximize results and save  time/resources. Successful performance confirmed with 2nd Army Achievement Medal.  • Compose Standard Operating Procedures that simplify processes while adhering to regulations.  • Accountable for the maintenance and operability of Military Intelligence Systems equipment  totaling over 3 million dollars.  • Collaborate with contractors and communicate company goals, needs and projected deadlines  resulting in excellent client/customer relationships and customer service.  - from - Military Intelligence Systems Integrator/Maintainer 35T US Army - Fort Stewart, GA January 2014 to Present • Perform and supervise employment, configuration, maintenance, integration, and operation of Military Intelligence Systems resulting in operational, mission ready Intel systems.  • Conduct computer network operations, installation, and reconfiguration of computer hardware and software.  • Troubleshoot UNIX/Linux and Windows computers, computer networks, and electronic communication systems.  • Selected as the Company Primary Communication Security (COMSEC) courier and custodian entrusted with uploading encryption on all Top Secret/Secret level hardware and software devices  sending and receiving electronic correspondence.  • provided SIPR/ NIPR support for routine and moderately complex technical activities related to server, network administration and desktop equipment.  • maintained user identifications for internal and external systems,  • assisted in development and maintenance of all internal databases,  • evaluated, installed and supported local area network (LAN) and wide area network (WAN) hardware and software, ensured information and data integrity of the network operations function. Education Bachelor of Arts in Psychology Florida International University - Miami, FL April 2005 Associate of Arts in Psychology Miami-Dade Community College - Miami, FL 2003 Skills Microsoft Office, Linux OS (4 years) Military Service Branch: US Army Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant E-5 November 2009 to December 2016 Commendations: Army Achievement Medal x 2  Army Commendation Medal   Good Conduct Medal x 2 Additional Information SKILLS AND CERTIFICATIONS    • TS/SCI Security Clearance  • Currently working on SEC+ Certification  • Fluent in Spanish  • Fluent Chinese/Mandarin  • Graduate of Basic Leadership Course  • Sling Load Inspector Certification  • Logistics Coordinator  • Training Leader