Business Application Systems Administrator Business Application <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Business Application Systems Administrator Tallahassee, FL To pursue a career in the field of Information Technology utilizing my analytical, people, and problem-solving skills which will, reinforce my technical abilities in a cutting edge environment. This will allow me to further advance my knowledge, abilities, and experience in a rapidly changing field. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Application Systems Administrator FLDFS Division of Rehabilitation and Liquidation - Tallahassee, FL June 2017 to Present Administer and configure objects in IBM FileNet P8 platform.  Develop business solutions in IBM Content Navigator to meet various business processes.  Manage VMWare vSphere software for virtualized server deployment and administration  MS SQL Server Database administration. Enterprise Application Administrator Image API, Inc - Tallahassee, FL 2010 to 2017 • Provide and Coordinate customer assistance to resolve technical issue s on a series of enterprise class applications.  * Plan, document and, implement system designs and deployments with Business Analysis, Developers and Project Managers.  * Automate code deployment.  * Manage virtual servers via VM-Ware, Hyper-V and, AWS  * Outlook 365 Administration  * Effectively manage assets and resources to complete group objectives on-time and within budget. Helpdesk Computer Technician Multi-Financial Services - Tallahassee, FL 2006 to 2008 * Received, logged, and responded to incoming technical calls and customer trouble tickets in relations to a Loan Servicing Software.  * Coordinated, scheduled, and performed instructional trainings with new clients and IT staff.  * Analyzed, tested, refined, and documented procedures for various changes made to a Loan Servicing Software.  * Created new user accounts via Active Directory and maintained printer communication over LAN. Systems Support Specialist Florida A&M University College of Pharmacy - Tallahassee, FL January 2003 to September 2005 * Configured over 100 new PC's installations and setups.  * Preformed in place upgrades for Microsoft OS Windows 2000 to Windows XP  * Installed and configured Nic Cards for TCP/IP LAN and WAN.  * Managed Microsoft Exchange users accounts Systems Administrative Assistant College of Education 2002 to 2003 Florida A&M University  University of Texas Arlington  Systems Administrative Assistant  * Analyzed and uploaded departmental information for LiveText - Accreditation Management System interface (CMS).  * Performed instructional training and troubleshooting issues for new departmental software for students and instructors. Education Bachelor of Science in Office Administration Florida A & M University - Tallahassee, FL 1998 to 2005 Skills A working Knowledge of: CMS/ECM such as (Joomla - WordPress - FileNet), Cpanel, HTML, CSS, BootStrap, Ability to communicate effectively with both technical and non-technical customers. Website maintenance updates, backup and disaster recovery. Photoshop experience. image web optimization (9 years), System Administrator (10+ years), Active Directory (6 years), Vmware (3 years), Joomla Administrator (7 years), Database Administration (9 years), FileNet Administrator (2 years), Linux (4 years), Change Management (5 years), Powershell (4 years), Linux Administrator, System Admin Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/opjtiowhrxqaueng Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cyoqfh2uqqmi31t3 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.