OT Systems Engineer OT <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer OT Systems Engineer - USGBB Syngenta Houston, TX Work Experience OT Systems Engineer USGBB Syngenta March 2019 to Present • Cybersecurity program framework development.  • Administration and troubleshooting of the IT/OT server and services that support the Operation processes on the ICS environment.  • Administration and troubleshooting of the PCN environment.  • Splunk service design, deployment, troubleshooting and administration  • Nagios service design, deployment, troubleshooting and administration Linux & VMware Administrator Infosys / Conduent May 2018 to 2019 • Troubleshooting and support to the entire Linux and Virtualization platform.  • VM deployment, patching, migration, cloning, snapshot, backups, troubleshooting.  • Virtual Network administration and troubleshooting  • Environment monitoring and performance administration.  • Windows and Linux OS administration and troubleshooting. Freelancer Management Consultancy International LLC September 2017 to February 2018 • Designed and implementation of network data communication for 10 new nodes and perform network service tuning and troubleshooting.  • Tuning and Troubleshooting of the Microsoft Windows 2008 Server platform accomplishing a top performance of the AD, DNS, DHCP, and NTP services. IT Services Administrator CVG Ferrominera Orinoco, C.A June 2003 to August 2017 • VMware engineer, design, administration, deployment, maintenance and troubleshooting.  • Run, implemented, evaluated and maintained the server platform, Operating Systems and services for the Corporate Network, in order to obtain maximum service performance, quality and availability.  • Service fee for the formation of Industries of Iron and Steel at the Ministry of Basic Industries and Mining.  • Experienced in Networking, Structured Cabling, PCs, Servers and Online services for Enterprise Environments.  • Designed, installed, configured, maintained and troubleshoot of structured cabling, fiber optic, switches, routers, firewalls, wireless networks, Access Points links, distribution points, computer rooms, service access points.  • Assembled and installed desktops computers and servers for computer room (Models: IBM, DELL, HP, clones, etc.).  • Troubleshooting and repair of PC and server hardware failover.  • Telematics Services:  • Designed, implemented, administrated, monitored and troubleshoot of network infrastructure services such as Active Directory (AD Windows, Linux FreeIPA), DNS (Windows, Bind), DHCP (Windows, Linux), Internet Access Service (Windows, Linux) Printing Service (Windows, Linux), Shared Storage Service (NAS, SAN, Windows, and Linux), Mass Backup Storage Service (Linux, Bacula), and Business Email Service (Microsoft Exchange, Zimbra, and Open-Xchange).  • Migrated Servers platforms and services from Windows 2003 Server to Windows Server 2008.  • Installed, administrated, monitored and troubleshoot of Windows (Windows XP, Windows Server 2008 Enterprise) and Linux (RedHat, Suse, Debian, Fedora, Ubuntu, Canaima, CentOS) Operating Systems.  • Member of Free Software Migration project for Telematics Services - CVG Ferrominera Orinoco, C.A. Iron and Steel Venezuela Industries February 2009 to February 2010 - Participation in the task force for the formation of Iron and Steel Venezuela Industries, on behalf of CVG Ferrominera Orinoco CA. in the migration, consolidation and standardization of technology platforms for all companies in the consortium.  • Framework Build for GBB site Cybersecurity program. - Leading role for the administration and management on the building of the Cybersecurity program at GBB Syngenta site, accomplishing the redesign of the operational structure and building the foundation for the implementation of the Cybersecurity policies and methodologies. Free Software Desktop 2007 to 2010 Perform the migration of all desktop services through the implementation of a new desktop platform and end-user applications, based on free software solutions.  • Data Center Networking Services implementation, 2007. Installation and configuration of data network services for the data center, which included physical and logical design for the implementation of switches, routers, firewalls, DMZ, fiber-optic network for specialized services such as mass storage, data sharing, backup and recovery. Education Bachelor's Skills System Administrator (10+ years), Vmware (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), SCCM (2 years), DNS (10+ years), Linux (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/FranklinCatoni Certifications/Licenses TS/SCI clearance