Global Infrastructure Services Operations Manager Global Infrastructure Services Operations Manager Global Infrastructure Services Operations Manager Cape Elizabeth, ME IT Operations Manager with 25 years IT experience, 7 years in managerial roles. Proven successes leading  teams and projects. Influential; a strategic problem-solver; self-directed, and optimistic.  Highlights include:  • Post merger integration of North America systems and network teams  • Led IT storage and database projects with budgets between $1M and $2M.  • Integrated overseas factory IT teams to consistent ITSM service delivery model. Work Experience Global Infrastructure Services Operations Manager ON Semiconductor February 2017 to March 2019 Infrastructure services manager for eastern North America providing follow-the-sun systems and network operational  incident response and escalation. Directly responsible for IT infrastructure at eastern US semiconductor factories and micro-chip design centers.  • On Fairchild acquisition by ON Semi, I was tasked with and successfully merged IT infrastructure teams in North  America and aligned with similar teams in APAC and Europe. ON Semiconductor - South Portland, ME 1997 to 2019 and Fairchild Semiconductor (acquired by ON Semi 9/2016) IT Manufacturing Business Partner ON Semiconductor - Suzhou, CN April 2015 to February 2017 Fairchild 4/2015- 2/2017  IT Liaison to semiconductor factories leadership. Aligned IT infrastructure teams in Asia semiconductor factories to common IT Infrastructure delivery model.  • Hybrid ITIL follow-the-Sun IT service delivery model completed for infrastructure and staff located in Bucheon, Korea, Cebu, Philippines and Suzhou, China.  • Led successful completion of enterprise storage migration project on accelerated project timeline. First use of Agile  Agile project management techniques by Fairchild IT to fast track project and meet aggressive timeline. Enterprise Systems Manager ON Semiconductor - South Portland, ME May 2012 to April 2015 Management of Unix/Linux, EMC and HP EVA storage and Networker backup infrastructure. Unix and Storage Systems Administrator ON Semiconductor 1997 to 2012 Administrator of legacy Sun and HP9000 systems running enterprise PeopleSoft, Oracle and web applications. Managed  EMC-based storage and EMC Networker backup infrastrure.  • Led multiple EMC storage migration projects Unix Systems Administrator ON Semiconductor - South Portland, ME 1999 to 2000 Provide technical management of HP and Sun Unix servers supporting enterprise  financial and customer reporting applications. Developed and successfully tested disaster recovery procedures to off-site cold disaster recovery location. Integrated Sun E6500 to EMC 3830 Symmetric containing 1 Terabyte of disk  storage for online data warehouse application. Systems Engineer EDS - Plano, TX October 1993 to June 1997 Provided pre and post sales system engineering services. Responsibilities included proposal  development and technical guidance to sales force as well as on-site assignments providing systems engineering  services to EDS clients.  Assignments:  EG&G; Technical Project Leader; Technical lead responsible for major initiative to modernize corporate network  as well as operational support of existing network infrastructure for corporate headquarters. Projects included:  • Modernize of desktop computers to uniform hardware platform and "Common Desktop Environment" consisting  of Windows 95 and Office 95.  • Migrate enterprise network to Microsoft NT  • Unify mail systems utilizing Microsoft Exchange  FMC - Food Ingredients Division; Responsible for operations and maintenance of "BLAST" process  manufacturing and quality control application, as well as data base and systems administration. Environment:  Network of Sun UNIX workstations running Solaris and SunOS. Database and development tools: Informix  RDBMS, C, SCCS, make, Informix ISQL, ESQL/C.  Dunkin' Donuts - Provide UNIX systems engineering services to assist with development of new "Shop  Information Systems" application. Environment: Sun workstations running SunOS and Solaris, Mlink data  communication software. Developed application installation routines using UNIX scripting. Systems Specialist Rowse & Loring Company - Falmouth, ME April 1992 to June 1993 Provided sales, installation, training and technical support services to CAD/CAM and computer networking clients. Specific responsibilities focusing upon LAN and UNIX environments with  complete responsibility for Sun Microsystems and Novell Netware products. Accomplishments included:  Managed product launch for sales and support of Sun Microsystems' workstations. Installed, configured and trained users on ORACLE-based engineering document archival and retrieval system and new CAD software. CAD Systems Manager Hannaford Bros., Co - Scarborough, ME January 1990 to April 1992 Managed network of Sun SPARC workstations and PC's running CAD application in a multi-disciplined engineering design department. Responsible for operation of network, installation of system  devices and software, user and management training, system support and customizations to suit specialized  needs. Accomplishments included:  • Migrated obsolete system to present generation UNIX client-server network comprised of Sun Microsystems'  SPARC workstations and PC's with no down time.  • Reduced operating expenses by 55 % while doubling size of network. Project Leader Prime Computer/Computervision - Bedford, MA November 1984 to January 1990 Responsible for all aspects of software technical support for CAD and CAM application  software running on UNIX workstations, Prime and Digital VAX minicomputers. Lead person with world-wide  support responsibilities for field staff and customers. Recognized by customers and rewarded by management for providing superior level of technical service to end-users of application software. Accomplishments:  Recipient of Prime "Excellence Award" in recognition of support effort provided to Prime's largest customer. Education BS in Civil Engineering University of New Hampshire Project Management Colorado Technical University Skills Linux, Solaris, Unix, Ux, Emc vmax, Vmax, Hp-ux, Vmware, Remedy, Virtualization, Ec2, Disaster recovery, Emc, Brocade Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  • Storage: EMC VMAX, Qumulo • SAN: Brocade • Backup: Networker, DataDomain  • Cloud: AWS VPC, EC2, S3 • IPAM: Bluecat • MS Windows Server  • UNIX: Solaris, HP-UX • Linux: RHEL, Ubuntu, SLES • Virtualization: VMware ESXi  • ITSM Tools: SysAid, Remedy • Disaster Recovery