IT Contractor IT Contractor IT Contractor - CompuCom Lodi, NJ • A+ Certification.  • IT Professional experienced in design, configuration, implementation  and maintenance of LAN/WAN.  • Strong skills in planning, implementation, upgrade and maintenance  of Multi-Domain Infrastructure.  • Administration of multi OS platforms and networks.  • Excellent team building, communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience IT Contractor Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) - Newark, NJ September 2004 to Present Level 3 Technical Support Analyst Field Services Northern Region.    • Provide Field technical support to clients in New Jersey's Northern  Gas and Electric, Fossil sites and Power Generation Centers,  Substations, Training center.  • Image, configure and Install Panasonic Tough Book's CF-28, CF-29,  CF-30,31 CF-U1 using ATT 3G communication technology in all Fleet  Utility service trucks.  • Re-image PC's, install and configure to corporate standards. Has  strong technical experience that includes: maintenance, repair,  upgrades, enhancements, and configuration of hardware, software and operating systems in an inter-networked environment.  • Provide on call support for Gas and Electric Distribution Center.  • Troubleshoot and resolve PC, Server, Network, Printers and application related connectivity issues.  • Support, troubleshoot, and repair all MDT's (Panasonic Tough Book)  devices used in all PSEG service trucks.  • Install, test and Provide support for VPN access through Fiber link  application  • Install, Configure and test standard imaging and proprietary  software.  • Experienced with all aspects of Desktop Management and industry-wide  best practices for the following: hardware and software desktop  standards, centralized desktop management (including remote  assistance) and calls triaged from a centralized Help Desk, software and hardware deployment methodologies, and data integrity and recovery.  • Experienced with all aspects of Desktop Management and industry-wide  best practices for the following: hardware and software desktop  standards, centralized desktop management (including remote  assistance) and calls triaged from a centralized Help Desk, software and hardware deployment methodologies, and data integrity and recovery.  • Performs as a senior level technical specialist, diagnostician, and task leader responsible for troubleshooting, problem solving, and  maintaining corporate desktops and other small systems. DCI Consulting Inc - Jersey City, NJ February 2004 to September 2004 Level 3 Desktop Support    • Setup, upgrade, install, configure and support Windows XP and  Windows 2000 on all corporate PC's as per company standards.  • Provide Level 3 support to client and team members  • Assist Client and team members on procedure and laptop remediation.  • Troubleshoot daily desktop and laptop hardware and software issues  trough Remedy Trouble Ticket System.  • Install, Configure and test standard imaging and proprietary  software.  • Install, test and Provide support for VPN access through Fiber link  application  • Trained and document proper procedures for client to use when using  VPN Sr. IT Administrator Manhattan, NY July 2001 to July 2003 Setup, upgrade, install and configure Windows XP and Windows 2000 on all servers and workstations as per union standards.  • Implement domain security; manage user accounts, static IP address  database, DNS updates, and other resources.  • Maintain and support user account database for E-Mail systems in MS  Exchange servers.  • Monitor system status remotely using Dame Ware NT Utilities to insure all branch offices servers' function properly and responsible for keeping up to date automated backup batch jobs using schedule  service to streamline operations.  • Perform tactical/strategic input on overall network restructure,  simplify, configure and create server and workstation core build for entire enterprise. Sr. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR NCO Financial Systems - Ramsey, NJ May 1996 to June 2001 Integral part of a team involved in corporate Data Center move.  Restructured new data center implemented and configured more than 120  servers in mix Windows NT and Windows 2000 multi site enterprise LAN/WAN  network. Administer and support LAN/WAN network consisting of more than  400 servers, over 15,000 nodes spanned across 50 different global  locations in a multi-master Windows NT domain infrastructure.    • Setup and configured MS Terminal Servers for more than 1000 Thin  Clients. Created, implemented and maintained lock down profiles as per projects requirement.  • Implemented and configured and maintain Guard IT Firewall and Proxy on a NT server  • Installed setup and configured MS IIS 4.0 and MS SQL 7.0 servers in and made available for data migration.  • Configured and harden the web servers to secure from the Internet by implementing NTFS security on files and folders and configured  services.  • Implemented domain security, managed user accounts, static IP  address database, DNS updates, and other resources.  • Maintain and support user account database for E-Mail systems in MS  Exchange servers and mainframe sessions in SNA servers.  • Monitor system status remotely to insure all branch offices servers'  function properly and responsible for keeping up to date automated  backup batch jobs using schedule service to streamline operations.  • Performed tactical/strategic input on overall network restructure,  simplify, configure and create server and workstation core build for entire enterprise.  • Responsible for all systems and network hardware and software for  Y2K compatibility.  • Created standards on methodology for Ghost images of systems  prototypes and distributing applications and business software using  Intel LANDesk Management Suite. Education Electronics Networking Technician Computer Learning Center - Paramus, NJ 1994 Skills access, security, testing, Active Directory, training, Microsoft Office, Sharepoint, training, Microsoft Office, Sharepoint Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Provide prompt response to on-line request, phone and email inquiries  submitted to the IT team.  Install and configure PC hardware and software.  Maintain computer systems, software, printers, and other peripherals and  equipment.  Directly interact with end user customers to resolve local and network  related issues and follow up with end users to ensure problems are  resolved successfully and satisfactorily.  Maintain detailed documentation of each service call in an online ticket  tracking system; log calls into a central database and escalate when  appropriate.  Be able to manage a heavy caseload and respond to user requests in a  timely fashion.  Provide timely, efficient and friendly service to all end users; display  effective customer relation skills to enhance satisfaction.  Assisting with other IT related projects as required.