Sr Systems Manager / Sr Business Manager Sr <span class="hl">Systems</span> Manager / Sr Business Manager Sr Systems Manager / Sr Business Manager Irvine, CA Work Experience Sr Systems Manager / Sr Business Manager AT&T Technology Architecture - Irvine, CA June 2014 to April 2019 ESAS (ECOMP Systems and Applications Support)  2681 Kelvin Ave, Irvine, CA 92614  Supervisor: Chuck Diener, 301-401-5155, cd0114@us.att.com    DevOps operational support to SDN (Software Defined Network) and CCD (Common Configuration Dashboard) applications. Job duties include:  • System administration of SDN server's underlying Ubuntu Linux platform, Virtual Machines, and Network.  • Cloud environment buildout using VMWare, Openstack, AWS EC2.  • Maintain SDN ODL local and geo-redundant clusters, as well as setting up HAProxy for website load balancing and failover.  • System fault/performance monitoring, security patch management, network firewall, and user access administration.  • Security management including certificate creation / renewal, and integration of UAM with MechID.  • Deploy SDN preload templates through RESTconf APIs.  • Maintain documentation on security plans, release schedule, error patch history, and meet with auditors for compliance verification.  • Work with users to gather feature requirements for User Story creation, and attend SCRUM meetings to present these requirements to developers.  • Develop process automation and optimization methods to improve operational efficiency.  • Perform cost analysis, reviewing emerging technologies, operational resource impact, and feature planning.  • Participated in 24x7 on call rotation. Sr Systems Administrator AT&T Technology Architecture - Irvine, CA September 2009 to June 2014 2681 Kelvin Ave, Irvine, CA 92614    System administrator for AT&T's managed hosting customers. Job duties include:  • System administration of Windows and Linux servers. Including provisioning, installation, configuration, hardening, daily support, troubleshooting, lifecycle management.  • Create and perform change management for periodic OS patching using WSUS.  • Setup access management using Linux key-pairs and TACACS servers.  • Worked with HP Proliant DL360 servers. Setup private management network for HP iLO access and monitoring.  • Support for Cisco network switches.  • Managed DHCP, VPN, and various service related protocols.  • Incidence management and root cause analysis for outages.  • Develop method of procedures (MOP) and knowledgebase articles.  • Initiate, develop, and execute change management based on customer requirements.  • Project management and resource delegation.  • Fault, Capacity, and Performance monitoring setup using Nagios, Topaz, Urchin.  • Periodic meetings with clients, collaboration with other teams and vendors to discuss new technology integration, performance, and technical issues.  • 24x7 Tier3 on-call for technical support. Sr Systems Administrator SBC Services - Irvine, CA February 2001 to September 2009 92614  Supervisor: Ken Reilly, 732-420-3954  Administrator of Veritas Netbackup service for AT&T Managed Hosting customers in various data centers across the US. Job functions include:  • Deployment, troubleshooting, and daily operation of data backup service for about 24 managed hosting customers with around 150 servers running Windows and Solaris.  • Experiences with various tape library system including Qualstar, Storagetek, ADIC.  • Worked with Iron Mountain for offsite tape vaulting.  • Administration of tape backup servers running on Solaris and Wintel platforms.    Provide enterprise level SAN service for SBC and AT&T data center internal/external customers using EMC DMX, Symmetrix, Clariion, and Hitachi Data Systems (HDS) 9960 disk array systems running on Brocade silkworm 4800, McData, and Cisco MDS fiber switches. Job duties include:  • Provision, allocate storage, and assist configuration on clients' servers of different OS platforms. Experiences with LUN masking, switch zoning, and the use of BCV, TimeFinder, etc for data redundancy.  • Create MOP (method of procedure) for various tasks, and create/maintain inventory of client installation layout information.  • Perform ORT (Operation Readiness Testing) for newly deployed equipment.  • Technical contact between clients and third party venders.  • Work with tier 1 and 2 on storage related alarms and outage tickets.  Deployment and maintain Emulex and Qlogic HBA on Wintel and Solaris platforms running path redundancy software (PowerPath), and centralized management software such as EMC Control Center and Connectrix Manager. Education Bachelor of Science in Information and Computer Science University of California - Irvine, CA Skills Linux, Vmware, Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) June 2000 to June 2003 Sun Certified System Administrator (SCSA) August 2003 to August 2008 Six Sigma Yellow Belt January 2014 to Present