Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - Pharmscript Budd Lake, NJ Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Pharmscript - Somerset, NJ May 2017 to Present Administer\maintain Production Support Systems  Procurement - request vendor quotes and create purchase orders.  Manage three regional IT Field Techs.  Jira System Dashboard for Project Management.  PRTG system monitoring.  Oversee infrastructure, VMWare, Tintri storage, Windows Servers and HP DL host servers.  Administer Workspot, create user ids, groups and manage resources for RDP and Virtual desktop access.  Server and workstation patch management.  Administer Office 365 and ZIX email security\gateway.  Deploy\administer Cisco Meraki firewalls, switches and access points.  Work with ISP vendors to troubleshoot and occasionally deploy routers.  Setup network and deploy workstations\printers at new office locations.  Configure and administer Fuze phone system.  Manage Active Directory and DNS.  SaManage ticketing system. IT Technical Engineer II Mount Sinai Hospital - New York, NY August 2014 to May 2017 Administer\maintain Production Support Systems  Provide engineering and technical support for Exchange Messaging Servers, SharePoint Symantec Enterprise Vault, MDM Airwatch and Lync unified communications infrastructure. Performs daily enterprise messaging administrative and support functions. Optimize performance of production systems such as Exchange 2007/2010 Servers, SMTP gateways, and Lync 2010 Servers. Resolves problems with mail flow, mail archiving, address book / public folders.  Support Active Directory operations and file access rights.  Planning Exchange 2016 rollout with plans to migrate users from Exchange 2007 and Exchange 2010. Administer Office 365 for remote users.  Administer IronPort Security Management, Symantec Mail Security and ProofPoint.  Server OS 2008 R2 and 2012 R2.  Responsible for maintaining server patching and on-call rotation schedules.  Oversee off-shore team for ticket resolution.  Document department procedures and develop scripts for Help Desk to be used for messaging related tickets. Senior Systems Engineer\Exchange Administrator NRG Energy - Princeton, NJ October 2006 to August 2014 Worked closely with the various business units providing support and guidance concerning messaging issues and site integrations  Our team designed, built and administered over 18000 mailboxes split between two separate site redundant Exchange 2010 systems located in Somerset NJ and Houston TX  Supported OWA, Outlook Anywhere, Autodiscover and system security and email policies  Ensured redundancy and failover testing between our Houston TX and Somerset NJ sites  Responsible for Exchange related documentation and ensure team adheres to IT change control procedures  Experienced with Netbackup for Exchange  Experienced with NetApp SAN storage and Snap Manager for Exchange  Forefront for Exchange and Symantec Message Labs for internet gateway  Implemented and administered Symantec Enterprise Vault email archive system  Assisted Legal department with compliance searches using Symantec DA  Supported both Apple devices (ActiveSync and Zenprise) and Blackberry devices including BES servers  Our team designed, built and administered Microsoft Lync 2010 for the enterprise, primarily IM capabilities  Interacted and maintained relationships with vendors  Participated in the off hours on-call support rotation  Maintained the hardware and software with preventive and corrective maintenance such as monthly OS\application patching  Tested all Exchange, EV and BES upgrades prior to implementing  Built and supported both physical and virtual (VMware) HP servers.  Involved in daily Datacenter operations and maintenance  NERC and PCI compliant for secured Datacenter access  Assisted in building, implementing and administer Cisco NAC, IPS and MARS  Wide experience with Active Directory and related services  Operational knowledge of Microsoft Active Directory in a complex setting  Active Directory, DNS, GPO, Windows Server, Netapp and HP blade servers  Microsoft Server 2008 Active Directory and Powershell Scripting training Network Administrator Proskauer Rose LLP - New York, NY December 2005 to September 2006 contract)    Main Responsibilities - Network Communication center:  Built and configured new Exchange 2003 clusters (HP hardware) for the field offices. Worked with the field technicians to deploy and used Remote Desktop to cut over to the new platform  Administered Exchange by maintaining the user database and requests for new distribution lists, alias email addresses and public folder access through Active Directory and Exchange itself  Maintained Antigen for Exchange as well as Postini anti spam software and Worldsecure email filtration software  Worked both individually and as part of a team regarding Exchange system issues such as performance, security breaches and system outages. Worked on user related issues regarding mail archiving, email tracking, web access (OWA) and Outlook issues  I also served as a second level tech supporting the Help Desk and field technicians with matters concerning Citrix Metaframe, network connectivity, network security issues (Active Directory and Group Policy) and when necessary, traveled to the field offices for major upgrades and moves  Administered Symantec Antivirus Software - tested, downloaded and deployed virus definitions to parent servers on a daily basis. Investigated threats and viruses on servers and workstations and took action when needed  Microsoft WSUS Administrator - deployed system and critical patches to firm wide desktops and servers  Handled backups and restore requests using CommVault\Adic I2K  Administered Blackberry Enterprise Server  Monitored system performance using WhatsUp Professional  Administered and scripted software apps using MS SMS 2003  Maintained the hardware and antivirus software at the disaster recovery site in Philadelphia both remotely and in person Education Masters of Science in Information Systems Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ Bachelor of Arts in Communications Wilkes University - Wilkes-Barre, PA