CDO Technologies CDO Technologies CDO Technologies Hampton, VA Work Experience CDO Technologies Defense Intelligence Security Agency (DISA) August 2017 to October 2018 System Administrator - Langley AFB  Administer Microsoft Windows and Unix-based servers & workstations at the operating system and application level for physical or virtual machines. Provide support for installed software (mission applications) including, but not limited to updates and releases, patches, and Time Compliant Network Orders (TCNO's). Maintain and examine system/audit logs for failures, failure prediction, and IA accountability requirements. Utilize DISA Security Check lists (STIG's) & SCAP scans for manual security vulnerability assessments. Perform all tasks in adherence to IA policies and procedures, Defense Intelligence Security Agency (DISA). Complete Service Requests tickets for supported applications; manage network/infrastructure devices, software setup, troubleshooting and remediate network issues and failures; administer National Security Agency (NSA) approved network encryption devices and network infrastructure supporting C2 systems. Install, configure, and export PKI certificates. AOC LTMS Principal Systems Engineer GDIT - Langley AFB July 2017 to August 2017 Identify, analyze, and resolve system problems. Provide guidance and work leadership to less-experienced systems engineers that may have supervisory responsibilities. Trouble-shoot CAT II findings. Conduct risk assessments and collaborate with the AOC sites to provide recommendations regarding critical infrastructure and network security operations enhancements. Develop and direct tests to ensure systems meet documented user requirements. Provide system/equipment/specialized training and technical guidance. Create weekly safety slides. Senior Engineer II GDIT - Langley AFB April 2016 to June 2017 Support the Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC's Air Operations Center. Installation, post configuration, data load of Command and Control (C2) systems to include TBMCS, JADOCS, MAAPTK, & GCCS. Install configure Unix & Windows infrastructure servers Citrix, VMware, Active Directory. Administration of computer and communications systems including system startup and shutdown, security and application patch installation, security scanning and remediation. Work with Information Assurance contacts for the AOC HD and System Program Office (SPO), evaluating functional testing results. Provide system auditing, problem report management, help desk management, performance management, troubleshooting and repair of C2 systems and Infrastructure servers. Provide additional "over the shoulder" expert support to ease the transition to Recurring Event 11/12/13. Assist with reach back support to AOC Help Desk and Production Center with trouble tickets. On-Site post AOC Weapon System installation support. Mentoring and OJT for site personnel. Coordinate with AOC Help Desk, Tier 2 and PC teams to resolve post AOC WS trouble tickets. Track lessons learned for future sites and metrics. Implement updates in server hardware and software. Monitoring and managing use of disk space, memory, and connections. Performing server backup and restore. Diagnose system problems  Create weekly safety slides. Troubleshoot hardware, software problems, and managing server event logs. FSR Onsite Lead at the OSF. DCGS System Administrator GDIT Mission Systems March 2015 to April 2016 Ensured overall integration and upkeep of all wide area network and enterprise management services to include all servers, workstations, and access accounting functions inherent to network access on the DCGS architecture. Managed enterprise IT services such as LDAP, NTP, DNS, and HBSS. Analyzed and administered network security systems, LAN/WAN and telecommunications, and/or information systems.  Maintained the functionality of Microsoft Windows and SUN Solaris / IBM AIX UNIX servers. Managed mission data distribution servers providing rapid file transfer across the WAN and to external customers. Monitored and managed use of disk space, memory, and connections. Conducted RAID status checks in Oracle Java Web Console. Managed accounts and permissions Windows and UNIX servers.  Administered a host of unique systems and services specific to AF DCGS weapon system. Provided Network management of computer systems within the DPOC-East and West.  Resolved problems associated with UNIX and NT workstation and server hardware, operating systems, and applications software. Reported all security-related incidents to the ISSM. Attended required technical and security training (e.g., operating system, networking, security management) relative to assigned duties  Prepared all on-site information assurance documentation. Maintained a working knowledge of system functions, security policies, technical security safeguards, and operational security measures.  Developed and implement an effective IS security education, training, and awareness program for DPOC personnel. Performed user account, group, and home directory maintenance for Unix/Windows workstations and servers, coordinating with DCGS Network Security (IA) as required. Managed, monitored, and maintained (ACES HY) VM Ware environment. Diagnosed system problems.  Managed enterprise database changes required by the DCGS Crew Communications (Crew Comm) System and DMCC audio communications systems. Coordinate testing and troubleshooting activities with Crew Comm administrators throughout the DCGS enterprise. Implemented updates in server hardware and software. Reconciled the Waveset database and enterprise data so that it is properly synchronized within the DCGS network. Troubleshoot and resolved hardware or software problems, and managing server event logs. Performed server backup and restore. Ensured virus signatures were up-to-date and loaded on all of the network servers and systems. Performed User management via LDAP and Active Directory. GCCS Administrator OBXTEK September 2014 to December 2014 Provided high quality Global Command and Control System (GCCS) administration and technical/engineering support for Air Combat Command. Supported installation, reliability/maintainability, and testability of supporting network infrastructures and application software baselines for servers and end-user workstations. Maintained the functionality of Microsoft Windows and SUN Solaris / IBM AIX UNIX servers. Managed server configuration. Performed server backup and restore. Downloaded/installed virus signature updates via Oracle Secure Global Desktop. Populated and examined trouble and error logs for troubleshooting and capturing metrics. Monitored Common Operating Picture to ensure Stratcom received daily feeds. Clear missiles via Command and Control System-Integrated Imagery and Intelligence (GCCS-I3). Systems Administrator, Senior Associate AT&T Government Solutions November 2012 to September 2014 Provided optimized security within the INOSC East Boundary Protection utilizing Blue Coat Director for Web Management Console. Secured CRT for command-line to troubleshoot, administer and centrally manage enterprise-wide policies on the Air Force Network. Responded to calls and user requests through AFNET, NIPRnet and SIPRnet remedy-based ticket systems to troubleshoot and resolve emergency connectivity issues/requests. Managed accounts and permissions Windows and UNIX servers implementing updates in server hardware and software. Diagnosed system problems. Detected and analyzed internal and external IT threats and monitor Intrusion Prevention. Provided training to military personnel assigned to Boundary Protection on the troubleshooting outages and connectivity issues.  Monitored server performance and performing tuning enhancements. Systems Administrator NCI October 2011 to November 2012 Provided engineering and implementation support for EITSM (Electronic Information Technology Service Management). Monitored performance analyzed system logs and identified potential issues.  Performed server backup and restore Audited systems, software, and backups. Applied software updates, patches, and configuration changes. Shutdown/Power-up the M5000 Solaris kernel during planned outages, Stop/Restart Apache Tomcat and IIS services on Windows 2003/2008 servers and Startup/Shutdown Oracle database for routine maintenance. Analyst General Dynamics August 2010 to October 2011 Performed after-hour testing and successful application upgrades. Troubleshoot problems. Conducted weekly scans via eRetina for future vulnerabilities. Systems Administrator Spectrum January 2010 to July 2010 Provided System Administration to operating systems which include Windows XP, Vista and Windows 7  Maintained and upgraded system inventory software for the network. SharePoint Administrator L-3 Communications April 2007 to December 2009 Provided operational and technical assistance to install and configure system server hardware, database software, specialized web portal software and end-user applications. Conducted port scanning and vulnerability assessments via eRetina, applied necessary security patches and lock-downs as directed. Performed backup and restoration of operating system, database and applications. Developed and maintained Intranet and Internet for client Websites. Network Engineer/Software Test Engineer SAIC March 2005 to September 2006 Provided server administration to Windows 2000/2003 and Sun Solaris system administration.  Monitored daily activity of WebLogic Server 8.1 and memory usage. Ran reports daily to generate advanced web, streaming ftp server statistics graphically  Developed and documented test plans, test cases and procedures. Conducted and executed test procedures for validation of function points, performance, and security. Education Master's in Cyber Security Saint Leo University 2015 to 2016 Bachelor's in Sociology Norfolk State University 1994 to 1997 Links http://www.teflonline.com Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) Present