Linux Systems Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator - Sierra-Cedar East Stroudsburg, PA I am an experienced skilled Windows Server Administrator and Linux RHEL Administrator,  Red Hat Satellite Patching, Provisioning & Configuring, VMware Administrator.  I have deployment ability and experience. I have excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and a strong ability to work with minimal supervision. I have ten years' experience as a Windows Server Administrator.    I've successfully performed disaster recovery, data and server migration, and service level agreement management, IT Infrastructure Library. I am proficient handling enterprise environments, including installation, upgrade, patching and configurations.    Software Systems    • Linux: Red Hat / CentOS, Ubuntu  • Red Hat Satellite  • Window Server Active Directory  • DevOps Vagrant Essentials  • Linux, APACHE, MariaDB, MySQL, PHP  • MariaDB / MySQL DBA  • phpMyAdmin Administration  • Windows Server  • Virtual Box Installations  • vSphere 6.5  • VMware ESXi 5/5.1/5.5/6.0  • VMware vCenter / HA DRS  • VMware Horizon View Management  • NSX Manager on vSphere Web Client  • PowerShell scripting  • Python scripting  • Ansible  • Kickstart scripting and execution  • Automation Bash Command Line / Bash Scripting  • Capacity Planning  • CollectD  • Curl  • Django  • Elasticsearch  • Grafana  • Graphite  • Virtual Host  • Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)  • Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)  • Simple Storage Service ( S3)  • SSL  • HTTPS  • HTTP  • IIS Windows Server  • Icinga  • Java  • Kibana  • Monitoring  • Nagios  • Performance Analysis  • PHP  • Postfix  • Problem Solving  • REST APIs  • RHEL / RedHat Enterprise Linux  • Shell Scripting  • RCHSA Training  • Software Installation, Management, and Support  • Syslog / Rsyslog  • System Administration  • SystemD  • Systems Engineering  • Technical Support  • Troubleshooting  • Vagrant  • VirtualBox  • Virtualization  • Web Servers  • WordPress  • Ansible Certification  • San StorageWorks EMC /EVA 4000  • GitHub  • Cisco /Brocade Routers  • ILO  • MSI packaging  • Citrix Xen Server Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator Sierra-Cedar January 2006 to Present • Deployed RHEL Linux Servers, and maintained Administration task, along with installing Ubuntu, Red Hat and CentOS in a virtualization environment, downloading CentOS /Red Hat Software, and configuring ram size, dynamic disk configurations, network connectivity, adding users, scripting changes using bash shell, administering, software upgrades, providing permissions, and access to needed disk and files. I have created VM's and provisioned, configured, and patched using Satellite Administration.  I have also performed provisioning using multiple repositories using composite view.  I am exposed to automation settings deploying servers in an enterprise environment.  I am also responsible for production support ensuring server interruptions are minimal. As tickets open all tickets come in, my responsibility is to resolve all IT, virtualization, and Linux issues.  • Lead the Development DevOps LAMP Stack Web Server team and configured using Linux, Apache, MariaDB, MySQL, PHP, and administering phpMyAdmin, MariaDB, and MySQL DBA. I've deployed monitoring tools from icinga front end web development. I've connected to a MariaDB server using the MySQL client. The following are the areas I've monitored on each server; httpd, mail, load, swap, disk, ssh, mysqld, rsyslogd.  • I have implemented the Postfix process when building my LAMP STACK procedures for email notification errors on a server. This required configuring /etc/postfix/main.cf on my linux server. The updated Postfix process is restarted once the changes are implemented. In the event of an error, the monitoring webserver now points to a third-party SMTP relay which is configured within the company infrastructure and forwards the email out to the administrators.  • I've installed packages, and identifying repositories, versions. Using sudo, I am able to identify which package was needed, along with the dependencies that were required with each package, as well as troubleshooting install issues.  • When installing MariaDB /MySQL, I changed over to the root user with sudo -s and proceeded to install this package. Once MariaDB-server was installed, I started the package and enabled using systemctl. I am familiar with loading repositories from yum and Epel releases.  • Using Elasticsearch, I've successfully deployed a server that monitors my enterprise environment by centralizing all my activity logs, via my Kibana dashboard.  • Detailed documentation of all events, deployment, repairs, upgrades, and patches.  • Using /etc/logs, I am able to identify errors and run diagnostics and resolve issues.    SQL DBA / MariaDB / phpMyAdmin Administration    • I've installed, uninstalled, and configured MariaDB & MySQL, using MySQL client or, phpMyAdmin on Windows 10, 2012 R2, 2016 R2 & CentOS. I have Queried databases, adding tables, and data. I have good working knowledge of monitoring, backing up and restoring single tables, and full databases, granting needed permissions according to company policies, setting up error logs. I have performed General Query Logging and Slow Query logging. I have a good working knowledge of cronjob backup scheduling. I am familiar with Heidi SQL, and how to connect MySQL, MariaDB, along with how to create tables in MySQL & MariaDB using Heidi SQL. I understand how to obtain current running processes/Queries in MySQL or MariaDB using Heidi SQL. I have Clustered two databases and checked server level settings.    Windows Server Administration  • Deployed Windows Server administration, with over 6+ years of hands-on and multi-tasking enterprise experience.  • Adept at handling multiple operations, including but not limited to deployments, upgrades, configurations, administration and maintenance, and troubleshooting of Windows servers.  • Installed Window Servers on VMware Servers and Oracle VM Virtual Box by downloading the software and installing Windows 2012, and configuring the required server settings, users, and admin accounts.  • Managed and configured policy updates, permissions, forest creations, disk space, and, upgraded software.  • Implemented Network Bonding to allow for increased bandwidth, and redundancy security, availability and backup, utilizing the 6 bonding /teaming profiles.  • To resolve common nic card find issues with VMware on specific servers, I resolved with Citrix XenServer for alter virtualization purposes to allow for finding my nic card.  • Created forest, GPO's and OU's with specific policy settings for specific users and groups as well as cluster environments on 2012 Window Server,  • Performed server migrations of Windows Server 2003, 2008, and 2012 R2.  • Using Server Manager in Windows Server 2012, configured roles and features to create Domain Controller.  • To Centralize, and to implement a better representation of the network, I installed Active Directory, Directory Services to gives me a better advantage of managing trust relations Greater Organizational units to improve scalability and Multimaster replication and sites, creating accounts, group policy, and setting access and permission for users.  • Knowledge of MSI packaging techniques using EMCO MSI Package builder creating custom installations  • Compellent SAN Manager  • Carried out Failover and Disaster Recovery procedures: Using StorageWorks presented all Windows disk requested servers to alternate location. Ensured all TCPIP settings were accurate, and configured DNS to point to the alternate location. Ensured all gateway and domain settings were accurate. Tested each server to validate user access.    VMware Administrator  • Deployed vSphere ESXi 6.5 onto DELL R710 Host and ESXi with vCenter software.  • Deployed VMware vCenter to provide latency flexibility with application and server outages from planned server maintenance by migrating running virtual machines between hosts.  • Responsible for configuring VMware vCenter vSphere on VMware Cloud on AWS  • Experience deploying VMware Horizon VDI to allow users to interface to a central location, and accessing their specific desktop, and files.  • Performed migrating virtual VSAN Storage, & NSX under the VM vSphere Client on the VMware cloud on AWS  • Launched EC2 VM's VPC's and S3's and Route 53's on Amazon Web Server and deploying Lamp Stack on that VM.  • I have good working knowledge of VPC and S3 on Amazon Web Server  • Migrated applications from one cloud to AWS VMware cloud in an alternate location using vMotion configurations  • Automated settings to allow for migrating VMs across hosts with DRS and HA and fault tolerance settings.  • Created clones from existing VMs (both live and powered-off)  • Six years working knowledge and experience with ESX Hypervisor, which I've installed on bare metal DELL PowerEdge servers and created VM's via direct ESXi server. As well as installed ESXi on Windows Servers.  • Deployed several VMs from Templates and customized their configurations as-needed.  • Familiar with the upgrade paths for ESX\ESXi Host servers\Virtual Center Server & the setting up of networking on Linux 5 servers.  • Deployed multiple servers, using Ansible, along with configuring, and administering virtualization technologies such as VMware ESX/ESXi.    San StorageWorks Administration  • Daily Health Check to all the SAN Arrays/Disk, for the multiple accounts.  • Handled day to day activities (Health Check, Storage allocations, Troubleshooting and the performance issues in storage.)  • Configured required changes for disaster recovery failover to alternate sites to ensure all network IP's DNS, and Host servers were able to see the network.  • Replaced failed Arrays, and DIMMS, and also, populated all replaced Arrays.  • Was the liaison for vendors and all onsite repair techs.  • Configured and Presented all disk arrays as instructed by the Engineers  • Worked with the disaster recovery team to maximize failover procedures.  • Led my team in all failover practices and carried out all S.O.P. regarding company practices.  • Performed Brocade Fabric Configuration and Management.  • Configured SNMP alerts on Storage and Switch side for any failures.  • Provided 24x7 On-Call support for multiple accounts and working as an escalation point of contact for many accounts.  • Coordination with vendors including EMC and Brocade.  • Mentored members on Storage updates.  • Maintained up to date asset details of StorageWorks.  • Performedg audits on storage frames and SAN fabric.  • Worked with the Fabric/Storage refresh and Migration project. VMS Systems Administrator Consultant MatlenSilver - Somerset, NJ September 2001 to December 2005 • OpenVMS Systems Administrator.  • Built and configured gateway between VAX and IBM servers.  • Configured software to handle site specific data processing.  • Configured VMS Internals for site specific software functionality.  • Modified and configured system security set up on OpenVMS Vax platform.  • Assembled data interface connection with IBM platform for data conversion.  • Performed daily tests on server and evaluates new systems software.  • Ensured daily backups were successful  • Worked with vendors on HP server service.  • Performed Disaster Recovery drills  • Introduction to Solaris / Maintenance / upgrades / patches OpenVMS System Administrator/Data Processing Manager Novartis - Hanover, NJ October 1996 to September 2001 09/1995 - 10/1996  Systems Administrator (Consultant)    • Administered plans to resolve cluster environment issues, in OpenVMS environment.  • Performed system tuning and measurement to improve performance of the operating system and other software systems to achieve optimum utilization of the computer hardware.  • Bring Vax Servers current in software and hardware requirements..  • Evaluated OpenVMS diagnostics and recommendations for processing enhancement.  • Enhanced OpenVMS software on all outdated software packages.  • Provided technical support for the Research and Development Dept. Education Accredited Kean University 1985