Senior Systems Cloud Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Cloud Engineer Rockwall, TX Dynamic, team-oriented professional with excellent interpersonal and communication skills. Resourceful attitude to always accomplish any task and committed to seeing it through. Work Experience Senior Systems Cloud Engineer October 2018 to Present • Cloud engineer working in the Microsoft Azure Portal. MS 2016 Server Support and builds. Create Resource Groups, Azure AD, IAM security, Template deployments, SSO  • Office 365 support. Exchange Migration from on-prem to cloud. Lync Support, Skype for Business.  • Citrix Support and build out in Azure portal.  • Active Directory/DNS Support - Windows 2016  • MS SQL 2016 & 2017 installs and Configuration.  • VMWare Support and MS 2016 server builds.  • Linux RHEL Server Builds.  • 3PAR and NetApp Storage environment.  • Projects:  -NextGen printing solution - LRS software. Build print server with software alternative. Includes Configure O365/Exchange on-prem email with forwarders, etc. for mobile connect printing. LDAP configuration for authentication within the application.  -Windows 2008 upgrade to Azure Cloud 2016 Servers. Includes: Build out of Azure Resource Groups with correct Tags via custom PowerShell script. Including Access Control IAM group assignments for proper permissions.  Exchange on-prem to O365 migration.  Onboard servers. Configure/Request AD groups associated with Cloud servers. RDS Project built out in Azure portal.  -AZURE Load balancer build and configuration.  -Configure SSO in Azure AD for VPN MFA solution.  -SSO Application Migration from ADFS to Azure AD Closed based Authentication. Migrate 20 plus Enterprise Applications (Non-Gallery) to Azure AD. Includes SAML configuration for Single Sign-On, Entity ID, XML Metadata file. Senior Systems Engineer October 2017 to February 2018 • Level III support in a MS SQL/Dell hardware/Azure Cloud environment running Windows 2008 R2 & 2012 OS (MS 2016 & RHEL in Azure.) Responsible for server support in a highly critical Windows/SQL server environment. Work to ensure that SQL database availability and physical servers are functioning properly.  • VM server builds and configuration in MS Azure Portal to prepare for on-prem servers to move to cloud.  • O365 administration.  • Daily Active Directory User and Computer object management. Group Policy and Sites & Services Management. DNS management: Host files, CNAMES.  • Windows 2008 and 2012 environment with SCOM and PA Monitor, and various scripts running daily to ensure maximum uptime on servers.  • PowerShell scripting to track and troubleshoot various server Events and any Errors that servers report via Windows log files. Output to HTML page verifying Server availability, Disk Usage, etc.  • iDRAC configuration on all servers. SMTP alerting configuration.  • Environment: Dell R820, Windows 2008 R2 and 2012. MS Azure Cloud (Azure Portal). Backup Exec Pro. Active Directory & VMware Server Engineer CompuCom Systems, Inc July 2014 to July 2017 • Level III remote Active Directory support in 2008 Server and 2012 Server domains. GPO configuration via GPMC, LDAP queries, Event log troubleshooting.  • VMware vCenter and vSphere 6.0 support. Batch and PowerShell for migration tools for domain User and Server migration for legacy domain to current domain for SSO initiative. Also, part of Access Management team handling various server share access issues.  • Work directly with user to troubleshoot any migration issues. Used various tool to remote into user desktop. Service Now ticketing system. Troubleshoot email/office issues.  • Daily Incident, Request, and Change management tickets for various issues including: Login, drive mapping, security access group issues. VM server builds requests, etc.  • Domain Controller support. CPU threshold/Disk usage/etc. VMware vSphere 6.0 virtual environment. Manage SCOM alerts in VM environment. Time/sync issues, etc.  • Active Directory User and Computer object configuration.  • Office 365 SSO user management. Azure Cloud Support with EXOL and 365 licensing management resolutions.  • Azure Portal server builds. Server 2016.  • Share access and management for User/Groups to specific network shares. Network group management.  • KB article creation and updates for team Share Point site.  • DNS Server management and Config. CNAME/HOST file config  • Cisco Jabber and Skype for Business environment.  • Quest tools to migrate legacy domain/servers to SSO domain. Also, utilized PowerShell and Batch scripting to bulk migrate servers. EY February 2012 to 2016 Active Directory. GPO. DNS. Azure AD, ADFS. ESX 6.5 Participate in team On-Call schedule.    EY (Ernst & Young) VMware and NetApp Storage Engineer Cardtronics - Frisco, TX February 2014 to July 2014 • Daily support for Cisco UCS Domains running VMware ESXi 5.X which included over 50 host servers and 500 VMs in a Windows 2003, 2008, and 2012 environment.  • Monthly Server OS patching using WSUS and Shavlick Protect.  • NetApp Storage filers. Managed Aggregates, Volumes, & LUNs on FAS3000 filers for VMWare Virtual servers.  • Data Center: Adding shelves, reconfiguring Data, LUNs, Aggregates, etc.  • NetApp OnCommand 3.1, FAS3270, 3250 storage devices.  • Maintained various security protocols within company.  • Participated on-call rotation and after-hours work/projects. Senior Server & VMware Engineer Samsung - Richardson, TX May 2013 to February 2014 • Windows and Linux Red Hat Server OS support for Samsung R&D group across multi-platform environment which includes Engineering apps, various storage devices. Active Directory support in 2008 and 2012 domains. GPO, LDAP queries, Print server support.  • VMware vCenter and vSphere support. Physical and Virtual server builds of Windows 2008 and RHEL OS Servers. Batch scripting for Active Directory user drive mappings and light powershell. SQL 2010 database build and configuration. SQL Clustering using MS Clustering services.  • VM Server build-outs & configuration using VMWare & Hyper V.  • IIS 6.0 and 7.0 web server build out & support. Various issues: WWW service, ASP errors  • Additional function includes support development and software engineering groups with industry standard tools such as: Matlab by Mathworks, Xilinx ISE, Exceed, ADS, Altera, and Modelsim. Build and deploy .msi packages/silent installs to users for needed apps for application integration and testing for R&D team.  • Windows 2008 Domain migration of 200 plus users and computer objects. Storage migration includes NIS and CIFS shares from Netapp to Netapp filer. ADMT tool for user/group domain migration and shares moves. RES Automation Manager build of Runbooks for computer object moves. Dell Quest tools also used for migration initiative of user and computer objects.  • Exchange 2007 and 2010 support. Troubleshooting various email issues. Transport service, etc. Setup, installed, and configured Exchange on virtual VMware servers.  • User PC/Laptop domain migration utilizing Acronis disk imaging software to expedite hardware upgrade for user base. Batch file scripting for home directory and other shared storage mappings.  • Software/Hardware testing for R&D group.  • Environment includes: HP and Dell physical and virtual. Hypervisors include: ESXi 4.1 and 5.1 and Linux KVM. Windows 2008/2012, RHEL - Redhat Enterprise Linux 6, Exchange 2010, SQL 2012, Citrix Xenapp 6.5, RES Automation Manager software, NetApp filer and Iceweb storage user homespace and Network storage. NetApp OnCommand System Manager 3.1  • NetApp OnCommand 3.1, FAS3270, 3250, D2246 and D4486 installation, cabling, and configuration.  • Participated on-call rotation and after hours work/projects.  • Data center: Cabling/racking/adding SAN shelves. Senior System Engineer III Bank of America - Dallas, TX May 2012 to May 2013 • Work to insure users have proper permissions on network file shares in accordance with Bank policy. Group creation in Active Directory for user accounts requiring specific permissions to network shares. Perform LDAP queries, apply GPO, etc.  • Open file remediation project on an enterprise scope across multi domain forest that includes 2003 and 2008 Active Directory domains.  • Daily function includes remotely connect to servers to resolve permission issues with shares based on Data Ownership and work with server owners to maintain Bank security compliance. Meet with team members, server and data owners, etc. to verify share permissions.  • NTFS and File Share permissions. Trouble shooting access issues and resolving Inheritance issues.  • Environment includes: VM Ware servers, Windows 2003/2008, Citrix Xenapp 6.5 servers, and AS400 network servers. NetApp filer for network user homespace and Network storage. System Engineer III/Active Directory Security Team Bank of America - Dallas, TX October 2010 to February 2012 • Build and maintain network infrastructure on AD security team in multi domain environment with thousands of users. Also work to insure proper group membership and user permissions to access network shares on numerous servers throughout a multiplatform environment.  • VM build out of DC and Member servers in multi domain forest.  • Group and OU creation. GPO, LDAP.  • NTFS and File Share permissions. Trouble shooting access issues and resolving Inheritance issues.  • Troubleshooting various server access issues on a daily basis. Create user, groups, shares, and set network permissions in an NT server environment.  • Daily function includes working from Outlook email group and proprietary web ticketing system on a daily basis. Solved approx. 10-20 level III support issues on various platforms.  • Environment includes: VM Ware servers, Windows 2003/2008, Citrix Xenapp 6.5, and AS400 network servers. NetApp filer for network user homespace and Network storage. Store Support Center July 2011 to July 2011 Systems Administrator McAfee, Inc - Plano, TX January 2010 to July 2010 • Support Windows 2003 & Red Hat Linux environment with 100 plus Servers in a multi-domain environment on HP Blade chassis Servers.  • Work to ensure daily DAT posting process is 100% successful. Tasks include: Server monitoring, working with Doubletake, Rsync, and other proprietary apps that make up the DAT posting process. Includes caching servers with AT&T, troubleshooting various issues. Responsible for solving a permissions issue developers were having with file Permissions when moving files from UNIX to Windows servers. This was an essential fix in the DAT posting process.  • Troubleshooting various server issues on a daily basis. Includes hardware and software installs on IBM Blade servers, Dell R and Power Edge series servers.  • Rebuild of IIS/Web servers that make up DAT posting process. Blade chassis with over 100 plus HP Blade servers rebuilt from Windows 2000 to Windows 2003 servers and Red Hat Linux OS. Install of various apps, and configurations essential for process servers needed to perform posting and McAfee Download process.  • Environment includes: VM Ware servers, Windows 2003/2008 and Red Hat Linux 5.5 servers, IIS, and SQL servers.  • Hardware: IBM and HP Blade, Dell R and Power Edge series, and HP servers. Systems Administrator Perot Systems September 2005 to July 2009 Tenet Active Directory Team (Tenet Healthcare Account)    • Responsible for supporting Application, SQL, IIS, Web, and QA servers and 150 + Domain Controllers working as a member of Active Directory team in a multi domain environment managing Forest.  • Troubleshooting various server issues on a daily basis. Includes hardware and software installs on Dell 2850, 6850, and HP DL760s.  • Supporting CommVault QiNetix 5.9 backup software to Dell LTO Tape Library for 30 application servers.  • Using Remedy ticketing system to monitor, track, and provide resolution to open incidents, changes, and requests to the Active Directory team.  • Domain Controller builds and configuration. Disk RAID 1 and 5 configurations. Includes imaging, running DCPROMO and monitor system health during promotion to DC and Global Catalog server.  • Created one-way and two-way Domain Trusts with domain for client sites.  • DNS host entries, forward and Reverse Lookup zones.  • Configured AD Sites and Services with proper active subnets per site for proper authentication  • Server patching with the latest Microsoft recommended updates manually to App servers and via WSUS to Domain Controllers in a test and production environment.  • DRAC Configuration on all Dell services. Dell ITA and Open Manage install and configuration.  • Cluster support of SQL Database for Tenet Billing Account running on HP Proliant GL760s servers.  • McAfee Virus Scan Enterprise 8.0 for server AV solution. Setup through EPO for automatic updates.  • Remedy Ticketing for queue management of Incidents, Requests, and Tasks.    Healthcare Solutions Development (HSD) Team:  • Support for healthcare solutions development team as dedicated IS resource in data center environment. Approximately 200+ physical and 200+ virtual servers supported on a daily basis.  • Project based work for development team working with healthcare development lead architect to complete any IS related issues for the team.  • Build out of server datacenter. Includes server builds on multiple types of hardware and OS platforms including MS Server 2003 and 2008 Enterprise (including Hyper-V and MS Virtual Server) and Red Hat Linux.  • MS Appcenter clustering of physical and virtual servers for various projects.  • NetAPP hardware install and configuration.  • Dell Blade Servers.  • Schema modification for Exchange server installs. Troubleshoot exchange in testing and production environment.  • TSM Backup solution for off-net storage. Worked with TSM for all backups needs for environment in production and development settings. Configure TSM scheduler and troubleshoot issues on a day to day basis.  • SAN setup for IBM Blade center. Install fiber channel cards on Blades and configured Emulex fiber cards cards via HBAnywhere utility.  • WSUS server build and configuration and deployment. Includes Group policy configuration. GPO. GPMC.  • Active Directory and DNS administration including Sites and Service, DNS, and Domain Trusts configuration.  • DFS server support and administration.  • Citrix Metaframe server 4.0 administration.  • Remedy Ticketing for queue management of Incidents, Requests, and Tasks.    Department of Education/FSA Team:  • Supporting government contract with over 500+ servers in mutli-domain Windows 2000/2003/Citrix/ESX server environment.  • HP hardware including DL380s.  • Citrix Metaframe server 4.0 administration.  • ESX server administration and VM server builds.  • TSM Backup and NetBackup solution for environment.  • Active Directory support.  • Remedy Ticketing for queue management of Incidents, Requests, and Tasks. Network Administrator Baylor Health Care June 2005 to September 2005 • Network administration for 600 + servers (25% virtual using VMware) in a global domain environment.  • Active Directory support including: group, user, and container creation.  • Create .kix files for AD scripting for users home directories and drive mappings.  • TSM (Tivoli) backup administrator performing installation of Tivoli software and daily monitoring of backups and nightly backup reports. Performed backups and restores.  • HEAT ticketing system with Crystal Reports for incident tracking and closure for Server group tickets.  • Dell server builds and configuration. Systems Engineer The Turner Corporation March 2005 to May 2005 • Responsible for server builds and support in a 250+ server enterprise domain environment with over 5000 users. Windows 2000 and 2003 environment on Dell hardware.  • Provide Active Directory support (Set perms and share access as required). GPO and Group creation.  • Responsible for RAID 1 and 5 configurations - Server hardware replacement. Dell Open Manage.  • Install and manage CommVault Galaxy 4.2.  • Monitor network utilizing WUG (What's Up Gold) and NetIQ server monitoring tools.  • Use Terminal services (RDP) to remote into servers in various business units around the country.  • Patch and Update servers either on-site or remotely with software and Firmware (includes BIOS and ESM).  • Responsible for DRAC (Dell Remote Access to Controller) and ERA configuration for remote capabilities.  • DHCP and DNS configuration (Create and Activate Scope).  • Symantec AV.  • Monitor Failed Login attempts for virus detection on user machines.  • Research log files for WAN team to locate users in the domain.  • Rack and cage servers in data center. Perform maintenance and parts replacement on Dell servers, Power Vault storage devices, and perform tape backup duties.  • Oversee imaging of servers with Power Quest software.  • Cable runs in Server Room at corp. and at Data Center.  • Projects: NSI Double Take rollout enterprise wide (Replicate data over the network to SAN in data center)  • Domain Controller replacement to 100 business unit jobsites. Imaged all servers with Windows 2003 Standard. Synching data using Secure Copy. Hunt Oil October 2003 to February 2005 • Responsible for Server & Network support in an Enterprise domain environment with 160 servers.  • Includes administration and support of Windows 2000/2003 servers.  • Perform server builds of Dell Power Edge 2550 and 2850 servers.  • Provide Active Directory support, which includes user and computer setup, and file share access.  • Disk management using Dell Open Manage. Also RAID 1 and RAID 5 disk configuration.  • Troubleshoot and resolve network connectivity issues.  • Responsible for network printer setup that includes creating printer on print server and assigning IPs to new printers.  • Monitoring print queues on 4 print servers.  • HEAT ticketing system and Crystal Reporting for Incident tracking for all Network/Desktop support issues.  • Used Terminal Services (RDP) into servers on/off site.  • Install Cisco Catalyst 2950 series switches and 3Com hubs.  • Facilitate CAT 5 cable runs and Hubbel CAT 5 patch panels.  • Responsible for switch closet rewiring.  • Configure, support and maintain Dell GX 270 and 280 desktops, and C810, 840, and D600s laptops, which includes imaging as necessary with Ghost 7.5. Web Link Wireless March 1999 to October 2003 in a corporate LAN/WAN environment in the Telecommunications industry.  • Provide support for up to 2500 Users Company wide.  • Provided connectivity support to users on more than 200 servers in a global environment, including NT, Novell, and UNIX.  • Daily backups on NT and Windows 2000 Servers using VERITAS Backup Pro.  • Administration for 2000 Domain using Active Directory.  • Troubleshooting printers on all network platforms including NT and UNIX.  • VPN and RAS support over multiple domains including Shiva and MS VPN.  • Installed, configured, troubleshot, documented, and maintained proper hardware and software configuration for desktop users.  • Perform administrative functions and maintain system security.  • Provide laptop support including IBM and Toshiba with Windows 95/98 NT/2000/XP.  • Monitoring and resetting paging terminals via Telnet connection on UNIX Sun OS 5.6 servers to maintain paging assurance for internal and external customers.  • Support for all MS Office applications including Word and Excel.  • E-mail applications: Netscape Messenger and MS Exchange.  • Windows XP upgrade to 500+ users and Migration from Netscape Mail to MS Outlook.  • Created documentation for company Intranet including Windows XP FAQ's for internal use.  • Environment: Windows 95/NT/2000/XP, MS Office 97/2000, UNIX Sun OS 5.6, Oracle, TCP/IP Education Computer Science Collin College 1993 to 1994