Director, Engineering & NOSC Operations Director, Engineering &amp; NOSC Operations Director, Engineering & NOSC Operations Glendale, AZ Accomplished IT Leader offering over thirteen years of extensive technology and security experience from a position of strength, focus and results. A proven track record of building resilient teams that are customer-focused, detail-oriented, and committed to excellence. Work Experience Director, Engineering & NOSC Operations Mosaic451, LLC - Phoenix, AZ February 2019 to July 2019 ? As a member of the Executive Strategy Group, developed and implemented annual strategic plan.  ? Lead of Architecture Review Board, responsible for approving changes made to enterprise architecture.  ? Played significant role in implementation of ISO/IEC 27001 Certification by developing, reviewing, and approving policies and procedures in alignment with corresponding standards and controls.  ? Managed account relationships by leading weekly technical calls to provide updates and guidance for customers in government, education, healthcare, transportation and financial industries.  Built and distributed monthly reports, along with customer quarterly business reviews.  ? Provided oversight to 70+ staff located in corporate and customer offices across the U.S. and remote workers.  ? Developed staff by implementing performance management and incorporating weekly training program.  ? Supported sales team by developing tiered pricing model for both managed and professional services, reviewing and writing RFP responses.  ? In support of cloud migration strategy, oversaw successful migration from on-prem SIEM to QRadar on Cloud (QRoC) with no customer impact. Sr. IT Systems and Security Manager North County Health Services January 2018 to February 2019 In direct support of the VP of IT; coordinate and execute all enterprise IT & security initiatives, supervise and develop all IT Administrators and Analysts, as well as maintain systems performance, oversight and service support.    ? Stepped into a direct-support role to the VP of IT, effectively operating as the department director, while the VP of IT filled the interim CIO role.  ? Effectively established cross-collaboration and training efforts between systems, apps, and service support teams, drastically boosting morale, effectiveness, and productivity across the department.  ? Assisted VP of IT in the identification and right-sizing of infrastructure licensing and support agreements, resulting in over $500k in annual savings.  ? Implemented a Varonis file system security appliance to identify, secure, and monitor all sensitive files, aiding in enterprise-wide HIPAA, PCI-DSS, and SOX compliance.  ? Executed enterprise-wide cyber-awareness & phishing campaigns, resulting in an industry-low 10% prone score.  ? Initiated systems and security incident management program, including weekly dashboards and reporting, which resulted in an increase in awareness and decrease in resolution time and user impact.    ? Managed and coordinated the implementation of an enterprise identity management and software automation platform, effectively automating the entire onboarding and offboarding process of employees, across multiple applications, resulting in decreased error from 40% to 5%, 85% time savings, and increased audit capabilities.  ? Established complete enterprise and clinical system architecture diagrams, defining data transmission types and paths across dozens of systems and applications, and developed department SOPs. North County Health Services - San Marcos, CA October 2016 to February 2019 Sr. IT Systems Administrator North County Health Services October 2016 to January 2018 Effectively familiarized self with environment by completing full systems assessment in an environment consisting of unstable systems, constant "firefighting", frustrated staff and significant IT leadership transitions.  ? Remediated numerous issues with Active Directory, virtual machine misconfiguration, capacity/design flaws, and a lack of documentation, leaving systems in a stable and reliable state.  ? Designed and implemented an appropriate and affordable offsite disaster recovery solution to ensure EHR accessibility was available within hours of a disaster, with an RPO of less than 24 hours and RTO of less than 2 hours saving the organization over $200k of previously proposed cost.  ? Implemented network and system monitoring and performance applications to increase the visibility and response capabilities of administrators, reducing the need to add additional staff.  ? Implemented a secure asset management platform to capture and manage assets, passwords, license agreements, services, vendors, documents, workflows, and correlating relationships. Systems Administrator Credit One Bank - Las Vegas, NV June 2015 to August 2016 Advised and assisted in the execution of multiple security enhancements, such as RSA Security Analytics.  ? Implemented RSA Security Analytics (SIEM), increasing visibility over system and network activity.  ? Improved systems infrastructure for the bank by adding points of redundancy, eliminating over 15 single points of failure and implementing high availability systems where possible.  ? Managed more than 300 Windows Servers supporting various proprietary bank applications.  ? Instrumental in the planning and execution of over 30 server implementations and migrations  ? Optimized server builds process & increased security through the restructure and linkage of Group Policy Objects. Systems Administrator MCI-West - Camp Pendleton, CA June 2013 to April 2015 Redesigned, planned, and implemented full system architecture rebuild/migration from VMWare ESXi 4.1 to 5.5, Windows Server 2008R2 to 2012R2, and SQL 2008 failover clustering to 2012 Always-On Clustering.  ? Managed and maintained servers and help desk operations for Command and Control (C2) support.  ? Aided in the research, design, configuration, data population, and validation of new applications  ? Provided account management, Citrix administration/support, and Software/Hardware issue investigation for over 70 physical and virtual servers, including backup and patch management.  ? Directly supported Information Assurance lead to ensure all servers were compliant with all security standards. Data Systems Supervisor (E-5) United States Marine Corps - Camp Pendleton, CA June 2006 to June 2011 Successfully supervised the planning implementation, maintenance, and overall security of servers, workstations, and networking equipment while ensuring efficient IT helpdesk operations.  ? Oversaw all accountability, training, daily productivity, and well-being for over 50 Marines' in the platoon.  ? Successfully led server migration in Afghanistan, with limited resources, and under 15 minutes of downtime.    Affiliations & Memberships:  Member, InfoTech Research Group  Honors and Awards:  (2) Certificates of Commendation (2009 & 2010) Education High school or equivalent Skills HIPAA/PCI-DSS/SOX Compliance (5 years), Performance Management (7 years), Systems Architecture & Design (10+ years), Budget Development (3 years), Process Improvement (10+ years), Virtualization (10+ years), Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery (6 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/richard-sanders-15638a38/ Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sergeant (E-5) Additional Information - Core Competencies -  IT Service Management Security Controls & Risk Assessments Vendor Negotiation & Management  System Architecture and Design Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery Budget Development  Process Improvement & Automation Data Governance Performance Management  HIPAA/PCI-DSS/SOX Compliance Cloud Computing Team Building & Collaboration