IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - Kiamichi Family Medical Clinic Work Experience IT Manager Kiamichi Family Medical Clinic January 2015 to Present Dell 2016 to 2016 Although my title is IT manager, I am the only IT person serving 4 separate FQHC clinics in the surrounding area. I am responsible for monitoring and maintain all of the IT equipment including five Dell servers (most running Windows Server 2012 R2 and Server 2016), routers, switches, wireless access points, as well as the desktop, laptop and notebooks used by approximately 85 providers, nurses and support staff, ensuring that they meet the requirements of our current medical practice software, eClinicalWorks, which requires a working knowledge of MySQL and SQL.    Other duties include evaluating and replacing outdated hardware, replacing hardware components, and reinstalling and configuring both the operating systems and applications as required.    I have implemented and monitor a disaster recovery plan which includes a cloud based backup software (Carbonite) and a Dell NAS device as well as implementing an antivirus software program (currently Symantec) ensuring it is up to date.    This position requires an in depth knowledge of HIPAA requirements and the ability to be creative at times finding cost effective solutions on a minimal budget. Systems Administrator Robert Madden Industries - Lubbock, TX July 2006 to June 2011 While in this position, I designed, configured and installed a new IBM eSeries server with external RAID drives, replacing the older, obsolete system and migrated the existing data and databases as part of the process.    I also implemented a new disaster recovery solution employing D2D2D backup technology with byte-level de-duplication. This solution replaced the current  Veritas Backup Exec program.    Was solely responsible for the administration of the primary server (unix) and databases (Progress OpenEdge). Tasks included upgrading the operation system, database and application software as well as performing disk re-organizations, re-sizing the database, and dumping and reloading data in order to maximize performance.    Provided application, hardware and network support to all branches and their users by troubleshooting a variety of Dell PCs and laptops as well as a variety of Cisco routers, PIX and modems).    Page 1  CONTACT    PHONE:  (580) 612-1377  EMAIL:  cgaylebeck@outlook.com Systems Consultant Infor Distribution Essentials - Colorado Springs, CO October 1999 to June 2006 Provided technical support to a broad client base on a variety of supported platforms, primarily AIX, HP/UX, Red Hat Linux, and Windows Server.    Researched version dependencies (operating system, database and application) and worked closely with the client and other key staff to put together an upgrade plan that, due to the complexity of the system, often took several weeks to finalize.  Performed OS, database, and application software upgrades, most of which had to be done after hours and on week-ends.    Acted as liaison between programming staff, development staff and client in order to resolve issues as quickly as possible and provide effective post-upgrade support.    Researched clients' needs, made recommendations, installed and configured new systems, and then migrated clients' existing databases, applications and data.    Provided support when the new system went live. Provided general IT consulting to clients on an as needed basis.  Tested beta versions of application software and worked with development and programming staff to ensure product was ready for release.    Documented upgrade procedures and manuals for a wide range of skill sets. Systems Administrator, Computer Ops Supervisor SITEL Corporation - San Angelo, TX December 1995 to October 1999 Provided system administration for approximately eleven Unix (AIX and SCO UnixWare) systems including performance tuning and operating system upgrades and patches.    Administered the IBM ADSM (now part of the Tivoli family) and DVR systems.    Supervised six computer operators, coordinating schedules to maintain 27x7 coverage. This included writing performance evaluations, documenting disciplinary actions, reviewing applicants and hiring as needed.    Acted as temporary network administrator. Systems Administrator Tom Green County - San Angelo, TX October 1990 to December 1995 Maintained operation of IBM System/36 including backups, restores, and monitoring. Used system utilities such as IDDU, EFU, Queries, etc.    Assisted with the installation of the RS/6000 and performed all tasks necessary to operations including the loading of software updates and PTFs.    Page 2  Provided training, hardware and software support to all county offices.    Worked closely with Sheriff's Office, Jail and District Attorney's Office which required a great deal of discretion due to the sensitive nature of the data.    Assisted with the maintenance of the Novell networks and maintained/operated election software and ballot counting machines during elections.  Page 3 Education Computer Science Western Texas College - Snyder, TX Skills Documentation (Less than 1 year), MS SQL SERVER (Less than 1 year), Process Implementation (Less than 1 year), Software Troubleshooting (Less than 1 year), SQL. (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS    • Client Assessment and Analysis  • Process Implementation  • Windows Server Installation & Configuration  • SQL Server Installation & Configuration  • Self-motivated  • Interpersonal and Written Communication  • Technical Documentation  • Strong Verbal Communication  • Hardware & Software Troubleshooting  • Debugging Proficiency  • Team Player  • Work Well Independently