Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - DELUXE ENTERTAINMENT Atlanta, GA Work Experience Systems Engineer DELUXE ENTERTAINMENT - Atlanta, GA 2015 to Present Hired as a full-time systems engineer to build manage and maintain a 260+ mixed server environment  (Linux/ Unix/ Windows), ensuring maximum uptime. Evaluate, monitor and enhance production  infrastructure with an emphasis on availability, reliability, scalability, security, data confidentiality and system integrity.  Key Contributions:  • Engineered company's multi million dollar visual effects pipeline. Built vfx workstations, servers, san  storage, and networking systems. Limited Python scripting with automated server routines. PDQ, software deployment, optimizing system performance, and WSUS installing upgrades/patches.  • Designed, configured, and installed a large scale high-speed kvm(Avocent).  • Installed maintained and monitored high performance high reliability SAN and NAS storage systems, ranging from Stornext, Facilis, Isilon and much more.  • Client facing also local support on network operations including TV(media) over IP, log-in procedures, network security protocol, permissions, printing issues, software installation and or upgrades.  • IP networking TCP/IP VLAN, DNS, VPN, DHCP, SSH, FTP, LAN, WAN and NAT  • Windows Server and VMWARE engineering including software installation ie., SQL    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Freelancer METRO MEDIA SERVICES - Atlanta, GA 2004 to 2019 Director of photography and director. Manage multi-camera productions both live and taped.  • Edit completed projects with advanced editing, compositing, and audio visual software.  • Prepare budget, treatment, and other aids. Supervise projects from pre to post production. Linux Systems Administrator NETWORK CLOUD COMPANY - Atlanta, GA 2013 to 2015 Infrastructure as a service position. Consulted with client companies to evaluate, recommend and deploy  Web-based and network solutions.  Key Contributions:  • Setup configure and provision virtual private clouds with phone, internet, point of sale, and messaging  for client branch services.  • Linux scripting with BASH. Create vlans on switches, provision routers for requested services.  • Deploy and use Linux based software monitoring tools; Icinga, Asterisk, Samba, and Cacti, to manage  client services including storage, VOIP, messaging, and network usage.  • Client facing help-desk support. Troubleshoot and resolve in-house and client technical issues. Education Pacific Institute of Technology - Morrow, GA 2014 Bachelor of Arts Morehouse College - Atlanta, GA 1998 Certificate of Completion Pacific Institute Skills LAN/WAN, NETWORKING (8 years), SECURITY, TECHNICAL SUPPORT (8 years), FIREWALL, Active Directory (4 years), Linux (8 years), DNS (6 years), Vmware (4 years), System Administrator (8 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/fernandobattle Awards Student of the Year 2015-05 Student of the Year at Pacific Institute of Technology Certifications/Licenses Linux Systems Administrator December 2014 to Present Professional Certificate of Linux Systems Administration Linux Gunslinger Systems Administration April 2015 to Present Professional Certificate of Linux Systems Administration Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gxvpkdlcsglhcdnc Technical Support — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zpdyvoyui1irwhoi Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information IT SKILLS    • LAN/WAN Administration • Technical Support • Advanced Troubleshooting  • Project Management • Systems Installation, • Networking  • Workflow Planning Configuration & Upgrading • JIRA / CRM Ticketing  • Performance Tuning • Firewall / Security Solutions