Contractor Contractor Senior Desktop Support Engineer Boston, MA Conscientious, skilled and results driven professional with a proven track record of  Working effectively in a team or individually. Strong rapport building and mentoring skills with Technicians, Users and Vendors or other Desktop Engineers. Work Experience Contractor Iron Mountain - Boston, MA February 2019 to June 2019 • Created and Implemented Dev to Prod process for new Automated Software Portal; which included the automation of over 150 software packages. This was accimplished by using such tools as Adobe Creative cloud, various scripting methodologies, creation of MST files, use of -Record and other varios switches, and editing some msi packages when necasary.  • Trained various Staff Administrators to update and maintain the new Software Portal.  • Was part of Windows 10 Team and assisted in the creation of Win 10 base image(s) for Win 10 Build 1809, Windows 10 Readiness, Created and trained Team on a new more efficient way of HII Driver injection process, as well has updated all drivers for all models, to pair with Win 10 1809 build.  • Provided Level III Support to all Techs (approx. 115 Techs around the Globe). Support included hardware to the Bios level and Application Support such has Office 365, Encryption issues, LDMS agent/Network problems, LANDesk preferred server and replication issues, as well has other internal software.  • Provided numerous additions to their own internal documentation library. Senior Systems Desktop Engineer/ LANDesk LDMS and LDSD Concentra Inc - Dallas, TX November 2013 to September 2018 Oversee and Manage over 9,000 end user devices (Both Desktops and Servers) using LANDesk Management Suite (Formally SCCM). Responsible for answering as the resident LANDesk (MDT) Subject Matter Expert, for all IT projects and day to day operations. Specific components at Concentra include managing all of Imaging/ Provisioning/WinPE environments/ Security Suite/ Cloud Services Appliance, Remote Control, automated Queries and reporting, amongst others.    Admin for LANDesk Service Desk; which handles our Asset Management ITAM system    Successfully acted as the Project Manager/ Tech Lead for getting Windows 8.1 and Windows 10 as an approved OS, and deployed out to over 600 Surface Pro 3 and 4 tablets and Lenovo laptops for Sales and Marketing Teams  Created many automated package software installation solutions for all types of software; using various tool sets based on requirements.    • Primary collaborator/Liaison for both IT and Non-IT departments, to build/engineer LANDesk and other Enterprise Desktop solutions for the entire company.  • Responsible for all design, testing and documenting as well as ensuring proper QA procedures to deliver and exceed expectations.  • Draft/Prepare technical and process documentation for review at all levels of the company  • Setup a weekly training session with the End User Device Team, so the entire department could grow and grasp a better knowledge of all approved solutions  • Perform 3rd level Senior support, and determine root cause analysis Senior Systems Engineer/ IT Management Business School - Cambridge, MA January 2008 to November 2013 In charge of all Desktop Computer related projects for all of campus; including, but not limited to: Highly visible successful upgrade of campus to Windows 7 Enterprise 64 bit, LANDesk upgrade from 8.8 to (3,000 + plus nodes). Successfully tested LANDesk version 9.6. Recently upgraded entire campus to HP Autonomy Connected desktop backup solution using LANDesk; with no support calls to the Helpdesk on performance issues.    Implemented Hardware Independent Imaging at Harvard University (using LANDesk). This effort reduced the image totals from 39 down to 1 base, Win 7 64 bit Enterprise base image. This new imaging solution has saved the school a conservative estimate of 2500 resource hours a year.    Implemented LANDesk Provisioning Hardware Independent provisioning; desktop imaging that is template driven for flexibility.  In charge of creating automated software installation solutions for all types of software.  Responsible for all Desktop strategies, solutions for the Enterprise management consoles. LANDesk Administrator /Desktop Management Systems Administrator CurrentLahey Hospital - Burlington, MA January 2005 to January 2005 Planned and Implemented upgrade of LANDesk from version 8.1 to 8.5, and then from 8.5 SP2 to current version of 8.7 SP3 with Security Suite for 7000+ nodes. Current infrastructure consists of 6 W2K3 servers, 1Linux server for the LDMS Management Gateway. Nodes are across 20+ sites, with varying bandwidth. Successful implementation included the following deliverables:    * Spent Months researching 8.7, personally responsible for finding numerous bugs with LANDesk and received appropriate fixes from LANDesk engineering Level 3 Support.  * Document Pre, Day off, and Post Implementation procedures, written specifically for personnel to help out with next upgrade.  * One of the first to get LANDesk Provisioning to work in production. Worked with OSD to ensure bare bones imaging process from start to finish; while utilizing current Ghost Images  * Crafted process from start to finish for Patch Management; which included the initiation of a Patch Pilot Team. Highly Successful, and received Kudos from Senior Management.  * Created over 70 distribution Packages and Policies, numerous delivery methods, documented procedures. Packages are using various methods, but most now are "Running from Source", saving the Desktop support Team hours of support time.  * Trained over 20 Desktop support personnel on using LANDesk Remote Control, Application polices, the LANDESK remote console, Inventory, Creating meaningful queries.  * Initiated Pilot for real-time enabled Spyware scanning, Pilot on-going.  * Finalizing Provisioning for HW/SW templates. Basically created building blocks for Desktop Support to create Hardware and Software independent images  * Created how-to Document for Server Team to use Security Suite  *Implementation also included: Software Distribution with Policy based installs\HW&SW Provisioning\Management Gateway.    * Have successfully pushed updates/upgrades/new installs to the Enterprise 100+ times since LANDesk inception.    In addition, I have also changed all local admin passwords for the 1st time, while ensuring encryption, Currently Piloting LANDesk's new Handheld Manager, as well as Asset Manager. Performing all LANDesk functions from writing scripts, deploying new agents thru unmanaged device discovery, Crafted process for performing numerous scans and remediation of desktop vulnerabilities, spyware, threats, and application blocking. Currently acting as project manager/technical lead for a Symantec upgrade from version 8.x, 9x to version 10.1.5.    8/00-3/04Tufts University Medford,MA  IT Support Manager/ LANDesk Administrator    Performed LANDesk implementation of LDMS 8.1  Current infrastructure consists of 3- W2K3 servers, and 4000 desktop nodes. Nodes are across 3 Campus sites. Successful implementation included the following deliverables:    * Custom LANDesk agents with varying settings  * Software deployment that consisted of numerous patches and common software.  * Created numerous How-to technical documents, and trained over 30 Desktop support personnel on various levels, depending on Job Role/Function.    Oversee staff of nine support professionals; with two distinct functions; hands on manager of the Helpdesk functions for the Central division, and also manage the Central IT Support projects. Develop test matrices for University application upgrades, OS upgrades, Anti-Virus upgrades, etc. Drafted numerous technical documents that were communicated through University wide meetings and support forums regarding central initiatives. Heralded for being able to think an idea, follow through, and then create new enterprise wide services.  * Designed and implemented a desktop support purchasing and imaging plan that dramatically reduced the total cost of ownership per pc; which now saves the University hundreds of thousands of dollars annually.    4/99-8/00Tufts University Boston, MA  Senior Desktop Support Analyst    Acted as Lead Technical Liaison for the Boston Campus. I brought my corporate consulting experience to a University in dire need of utilizing their limited resources. Instrumental in upgrades of Win 95, 98 upgrades to W2K, WXP Professional to the entire campus. Brought Ghost technology to the campus, and trained current IT staff, saving many hours in Lab support.    Always handled all projects and IT support calls in the most professional and efficient manner. The Central division of the University was impressed, and asked me to take a management job on the Medford campus. Education Microsoft Certified System Engineer Certification Boston University - Boston, MA April 1999 to November 1999 Certified Novell University Boston - Boston, MA Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CITRIX, LANDESK, VMWARE, VPN Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Systems Administrator with solid application support, Enterprise Hii Imaging ( WinPE environments), network administration/ systems support, and project management skills; with *proven* ability to establish tasks, monitor and most importantly measure results.  • Excellent customer support skills; strong problem-solving abilities with proven ability for creative, critical thinking for Enterprise solutions.  • Application package Automation using many different specfic and Enterprise tools sets like PowerShell, VB script, Batch Files, Orca MSI, Flexera, AutoIT, MDT, creation of MST and XML files for unattend/silent install.. many more, depending on package requirements. Automated pacakages created for use with Enterprise toolsets like LANDesk/Ivanti/SCCM/ePO.  • Disaster recovery/planning, Provisioning/compliance, Enterprise Application upgrades and Systems/Inventroy management.  • Active Directory Management with Group Policy. Create Test OU's on to production OU's.  • Responsible for numerous Win 10 Base Image Creation, using different Branches, Editions, Version and OS Builds. Windows 7, 8.1, Windows XP, All Versions of MS Office from 365 Cloud based to 2016 local and all predecssors. Other skils include, but not limited too: Active Directory, Windows Server 2008/2012.2016/2019. Device Compliance expercience, SQL , Oracle, IIS, Carbon Black, BackUp Exec, Administered many different Security Suites Trend Micro, Norton Antivirus, ePO Admin, McAfee, Heat, Symantec System Console, Ghost, Remedy, Heat, Track IT, LANDesk, SCCM, VPN, Citrix, Desktop Security-OS lockdown, PGP, HPDM Thin client, VMware vShpere/Horizons.