Research Administrator, UC Health Systems Research <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, UC Health <span class="hl">Systems</span> Research Administrator, UC Health Systems - Pediatrics Department San Diego, CA Work Experience Research Administrator, UC Health Systems Pediatrics Department June 2018 to Present Pediatrics Department Liaison for Rady Children's Hospital - worked with the research administration to analyze  current relations and operations; developed SOPs to optimize communication, financial transactions, and streamlined workflows; developed a Master Procurement Services Agreement;  ? Clinical Trials - developed SOPs, industry funded budget negotiations; negotiated budgets at 2.5 times the original  offer; developed standard rates and new internal negotiation budget; trained new staff and supervised budget  negotiation workload; in charge with the integration and troubleshooting of the new Campus Accounts  Receivable Tool for the Pediatrics department;  ? Work Director of Part-Time Staff - conducted daily schedules and assignments; participated in the hiring process  of new staff, as well as on-boarding and training new employees; spearheaded compliance effort;  ? Grant/Contract Application and Management - coordinated activity between PI and SPO offices for timely  submission to NIH, non-profit, and private sectors; well-versed in eRA Commons, Fastlane, and ASSIST; prepared  Research Performance Progress Reports as well as Financial Expense Reports. Financial Assistant, UC Health Systems Pediatrics Department June 2017 to June 2018 Clinical Trials - Assisted in the creation of new invoice and milestone templates; optimized current tracking  system and worked closely with SRI Billing on reconciliation; trained fund managers on post-award policies;  assisted in budget negotiations; continued post-award work on more than 60 different trials;  ? Financial Analysis - prepared and presented current funding and clinical trials invoicing and reconciliation for PIs  and Study Coordinators; created and implemented of the new Campus Accounts Receivable Tool; expert with Financial Link, other branches of Blink, and communication with relevant SPO offices;  ? Financial Assistant - trained new employees on department policies, UC Learning, transaction sampling, clinical  trials reconciliation, and other general financial assistant responsibilities. Accounts Payable Specialist Lead UCSD Bookstore July 2016 to May 2017 Prioritize invoices according to cash discount potential and payment terms; review all invoices for appropriate  documentation and approval prior to payment; audit and process credit card bills; match invoices to checks, obtain all signatures for checks and distribute checks accordingly;  ? Maintain files and documentation thoroughly and accurately through use of MS Word and Excel; assist in month  end and fiscal year closing, in accordance with company policy and accepted accounting practices;  ? Reconcile vendor statements, research and correct discrepancies. Intern, Harbor Rail Services June 2015 to September 2015 Greet visitors; process ongoing and outgoing mail; answer and transfer calls; order office supplies, receive and organize the supply room; schedule service for the copy/fax machine;  ? File bills and invoices; enter daily billable hours/location in Excel and compare with payroll labor hours. Education Bachelor of Science in Health Policy University of California - San Diego, CA 2018