Tier 3 Technical Engineer Tier 3 Technical Engineer Tier 3 Technical Engineer - Scantron Technology Solutions Kalispell, MT Work Experience Tier 3 Technical Engineer Scantron Technology Solutions - Omaha, NE 2017 to Present Deliver support for client and internal systems including operating systems, Active Directory administration, network troubleshooting, performance optimization, software installation and configuration, firewall management, virtualization solutions, storage networks, cloud based applications, VOIP telephony, documenting processes, and recommend improvements to increase productivity. Troubleshoot and maintain WAN systems in collaboration with ISPs to improve performance as well as coordinate with other corporate resources to resolve enterprise and clients' applications issues.  Key Achievements:  * Supported systems including workstations, servers, remote access, firewalls, switches, and customer applications. Vendors include Microsoft, Citrix, Fortinet, Cisco, SonicWALL, Sage, Thompson Reuters, HP, Dell, Logitech, and VMWare.  * Created documentation for new processes introduced as well as review and update current documentation to improve processes resolving client issues.  * Delivered trainings to Tier 1/Tier 2 level support employees to increase efficiency in solving customer issues. Systems/Network Administrator Catch Intelligence - Omaha, NE 2008 to 2016 Managed corporate Active Directory environment including user management, Kerberos integration, group policy management, DNS, and redundant domain controllers. Maintained and expanded the VMWare & Hyper-V host environments to support corporate operations. Collaborated with analysts and business users to gather requirements and implement technical design deployment at client locations.  Key Achievements:  * Designed, configured and implemented network infrastructure at new corporate location including firewalls, fiber connected switches, VoIP phone system, and wireless access points.  * Created and implemented enterprise level solutions consisting of physical and virtualized servers, network, and applications components to address needs and issues for the corporate environment.  * Consolidated SQL servers in the development and production environments to centralized MS SQL servers for each environment to reduce maintenance and administration overhead and reduce costs.  * Delivered trainings to Tech support teams regarding installation and maintenance of new technologies, network and server monitoring as well as assisted Installation team in resolving client issues.  * Designed, configured, and implemented, business objects servers (Enterprise, Edge, and Crystal Reports Server) and/or Microsoft SSAS and SSRS Business Intelligence reporting solutions.  * Successfully developed highly flexible enterprise reporting security designs for Fortune 500 customers. Senior Systems Administrator Northern Natural Gas - Omaha, NE 2002 to 2008 Built, configured, and administered Windows Servers. Managed physical and virtualized servers, redundant DNS, and Active Directory for corporate environment. Supported GPO assignments for local and remote sites and departments.  Key Achievements:  * Performed needs assessment analysis and provided solutions for end-user requirements while maintaining all security and auditing standards.  * Designed, upgraded, and implemented four Business Objects environments.  * Implemented VMWare virtualization and collaborated with client departments to schedule conversion of physical servers to virtual servers while minimizing impact to business processes. Education Associate in Computer Technology Associate in Electronics Technology Skills Ldap (4 years), Windows (10+ years), Vmware (5 years), Cisco (1 year), SQL Server (3 years), Microsoft Office (7 years), Powershell (2 years), Shell Batch Scripting (6 years), DNS (7 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/andyroche Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) VMWare CertifiedPprofessional Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Platforms: Windows, Azure Cloud Services Linux, VMWare ESXi (3-6), MS SQL Server, Sybase IQ, Oracle  Tools: Shell Batch Scripting, Microsoft Office Products, HTML, VMWare vCenter, VMWare Workstation (1-12), PowerShell  Network Technologies:  Fortinet (Firewalls, VPN clients), Cisco (Firewalls, Wireless Access Points, Layer 2/Layer 3 Switches), HP (Layer 2/Layer 3 switches, Wireless Access Points), Ruckus (Wireless Access Points, Access Point Manager), Microsoft Remote Desktop Servers; LDAP, DNS