Project Manager Project Manager Project Manager - Emerson Electric Smyrna, GA An accomplished professional with an entrepreneurial spirit. Leads companies to growth and market differentiation with a record of generating new business opportunities and developing lucrative partnerships. Top performer in implementing successful projects by exceeding corporate goals and delivering financial value to customers. Strong orientation in technology business leadership with an interactive team management style. Solves problems and facilitates alignment to business goals. Fluent in Spanish and conversational in Portuguese. Work Experience Project Manager Emerson Electric - Kennesaw, GA May 2013 to Present Partner with customers and sales team to deliver customized energy-saving solutions for a diverse client portfolio. Cultivate and collaborate with clients to deliver solutions that solve problems, resulting in new business opportunities and recurring revenue streams. Build and manage high performing cross-functional teams globally.  • Facilitate and own communication with stakeholders while managing resources, budget, and schedule for the entire project life cycle.  • Produced annual (2018) Energy controls revenue of $8M.  • Realized a yearly savings (2018) of $142,984 or 6.64% through vendor negotiations and sourcing.  • Incorporated an international team of coordinators, resulting in 40% savings for Emerson Electric.  • Directed effective hiring, coaching, and performance management.  • Monitor internal operation efficiency by performing monthly forecasts of equipment needs and revenue streams.  • Create a shared vision and leads process improvement strategies (pilots) by performing risk analysis and offering compelling solutions before project rollout to exceed customer satisfaction. Project Engineer/Manager The Kroger Co - Atlanta, GA April 2007 to May 2013 Oversaw $60+ million in budgets for remodels, expansions, and new store construction. Created a shared vision plan for design, layout, and store optimization. Estimated project budget to site development, building construction, and store fixtures to accurately project ROI. Reduced electrical scope changes across department 30% by developing best practice and training material. Led training sessions on commercial building electrical specifications and details. Obtained buy-in from project kick-off by allowing members to contribute to plan.  • Praised good work while holding members accountable to their commitments.  • Developed multiple master project schedules and facility designs.  • Created proposals and controlled scope change for project rollouts and pilots.  • Managed customers, established budgets, prepared bid documents, and awarded contracts.  • Approved draw requests and monitored constructions to assure adherence to specifications/safety standards.  • Assigned highly visible projects, such as the construction of a new $18 million new store in Dacula, GA. Assistant Systems Administrator Woodstock, GA September 2006 to February 2007 Installation/configuration and maintenance of systems hardware and software. Supported office staff by performing troubleshooting. Procured software and hardware and managed all office equipment.  • Installed servers and configured all peripherals, settings, directories, and storage.  • Managed project schedules and resource plan using MS project. Education MBA in Management of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology December 2017 BS in Electrical Engineering and Technology Kennesaw State University December 2006 Skills Relationship development, Strategic planning, Financial management, Problem solving, Operations Additional Information Key Skills    Leadership ? Partnership Negotiation ? Committed to Excellence? Relationship Development/Management Problem Solving ? Operations and Financial Management ? Strategic Planning