Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - Diverse Systems Group Alexandria, VA I am an information technology (IT) professional with over nineteen years in the field. In addition to my hands-on experience, I have had extensive IT training and have attained certifications in both Novell and Microsoft products. This experience, coupled with my mechanical engineering degree and 11 years of service in the Navy, has given me the technical and project management skills necessary to work cooperatively or independently within a Windows/Exchange server environment. Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Diverse Systems Group June 2019 to Present Systems Engineer supporting Fort Belvoir Community Hospital (FBCH). Responsible for management of Splunk, V-Brick, Qmulos, and Lynx servers. Responsible for upgrading application software to current version and patching underlying operation system.  ? Remedy queue manager for System Administration Group. Systems Administrator/ Systems Engineer GDIT April 2019 to June 2019 Systems Engineer supporting Pentagon Force Protection Agency (PFPA). Responsible for installation of Veeam Backup infrastructure at secondary data center. Installed Veeam software on Server 2016 and configured backup for all servers at secondary data center. Implemented Backup Copy of primary data center backup files to the secondary data center. Implementing Role Based Access Control (RBAC) for server and workstation administrators including two-factor authentication. Responsible for moving all servers and workstations for agency application to new organizational units and ensuring proper GPOs are applied without conflict with old organizational unit GPOs. Systems Administrator/ Systems Engineer TEKsystems February 2018 to April 2019 Systems Administrator with Domain Admin rights supporting the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA). Managing users and servers in five different Domain structures. Management of Server 2008 R2, 2012 R2, and 2016 versions including Core installations. Responsible for Tier 2 and 3 issue escalation from user for a variety of issues. Assisted in build out of new Microsoft DirectAccess server farm consisting of four 2012 R2 servers in two sites. Responsible for Group Policy Object (GPO) creation and modification for users and computers within five Domain structures. Senior Principal Engineer Blackspoke July 2017 to February 2018 Supporting the Litigation Lab for Department of Justice. The Litigation lab is a virtual environment of Windows/SQL servers supporting Relativity software for use by attorneys performing e-discovery on legal cases for the US government. Functions include creation and management of all Windows 2012 R2 servers in a VMware environment including installation of SQL 2016 and Relativity software. Systems Administrator US Government March 2007 to June 2017 Server Operations Team Lead 2008 to 2012 - Supervising eight contractors responsible for United States Marshals Service (USMS) Windows and Linux Server Infrastructure and Data Storage. Managing over 25 Server Operations projects ranging from short-term tasks to long range projects involving major hardware and software upgrades to the physical and virtual environment. Supervised data center consolidation project requiring removal of all hardware from one of two rows of and consolidation into a single row. Supervised creation of a TEST/DEV Server/Storage environment effectively isolated from the USMS Production environment. Supervised implementation of Microsoft System Center component (SCOM/SCCM) now monitoring over 300 Windows (2008/2012) and Linux servers within the USMS Production and TEST/DEV environment.  ? Avamar/DataDomain subject matter expert for USMS. Supervised installation of EMC Avamar and DataDomain hardware and software in USMS environment. Set up new backup datasets and policies to replace Veeam and NetBackup systems providing a single backup solution for physical and virtual servers.  ? Completed migration of over 15TB of user Home directory data. Coordinated weekly migration of District/Division data from HOME servers to CIFS share with simple path to H: drives for all users. Communicated with end users/Account Managers/Help Desk on timing and procedures for connection to new H: drive folders.  ? Created and modified Group Policy Objects (GPO) in support of Home directory migration to new storage location.  ? Coordinated deployment and use of GroundLabs' Data Recon PII search software. Created search profiles and trained District technicians on the use of the software and creation of reports. Created reports for all HQ Divisions to identify data with PII. Coordinated movement of over 1.5TB PII data to restricted access storage space. Created PII custodian security groups for assigned personnel. Applied permissions for custodians to all new "P" drive shares. Applied permissions to restricted shares so that users could only access folders they were give permission to.  ? Built, deployed, and configured CENTOS VMWare server for Enterprise Recon PII search software. Responsible for VMWare configuration management. Responsible for deployment of PII search plug-ins on target servers. Imported search parameters from stand-alone PII search tool, Data Recon, for used with Enterprise Recon.  ? Built and deployed VMWare Windows 2012 server to be used as admin server of CPTRAX suite of software of monitoring tools. Installed monitoring plugins on file servers and domain controllers providing information to CPTRAX admin console for File System, Active Directory, Logon/Logoff, and GPO reporting.  ? Primary manager of sixteen VMWare Windows 2008 servers providing all Division and Districts home directories and shared folders. Servers contain almost 30TB of data. Responsible for major data moves and redirection of mapping GPOs if storage capacity reaches critical limits. Responsible for management of WMware configuration and resources. Team member for management of Active Directory, DNS 2008 to 2012 Troubleshoot VMware Windows (2008/2012) and Linux server issues through vSphere management console for entire enterprise.  ? Team member for management of Active Directory, DNS, and DHCP throughout the USMS enterprise within a Server 2012 Domain/Forest.  ? Microsoft System Center EndPoint Protection (SCEP) subject matter expert for USMS. Responsible for deployment of SCEP and subsequent upgrade to SCEP throughout the enterprise. Managing over 8000 laptop, desktop, and server clients ensuring virus pattern files are kept up to date.  ? Using Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT), assisted in creation of two major versions of a Windows XP deployment image that could be used on 20 different laptop/desktop hardware models. Created "application" modules for second deployment image to add additions/modifications/deletions to first deployment image. Utilized Microsoft Script Editor and AutoIT utilities for creation of scripted installations Systems Administrator UNISYS August 2005 to March 2007 Systems Administrator supporting U.S. Army Logistics Transformation Agency (LTA). Responsibilities included management of Fort Belvoir WAN/LAN for LTA which included eight network servers (2000/2003) and over 90 connected desktops and laptops.  * Upgraded five Windows 2000 servers to Windows 2003 Server operating system to comply with Army requirement for all hardware to be at Windows XP/2003 level  ? Performed systems administration and management of CISCO hardware and software for LTA WAN/LAN connectivity to sister site in New Cumberland, PA.  ? Responsibilities also included management and monitoring of WINS/DHCP server, BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES), Outlook Web Access (OWA) server, Veritas BackupExec server, Symantec AntiVirus (AV) servers, and other file servers.  ? MS-Exchange Administration tasks included management and monitoring of Exchange 5.5 e-mail services, creation of e-mail accounts and mailboxes, and creation of organizational distribution lists.  ? Provided virus protection for LAN and e-mail utilizing Symantec AV server 10.x and Sybari Antigen for Exchange. Ensured Symantec AV server was delivering daily virus definitions to client systems and that Sybari Antigen antivirus plug-ins were up to date and proper file extensions are being blocked.  ? Responsible for reporting compliance with Information Assurance Vulnerability Management (IAVM) system. Utilized utilities such as STAT Guardian 6 (Harris STAT Scanner) and Patch Link Manager to ensure compliance with OS and application vulnerabilities announced by U.S. Army and Department of Defense.  ? Prepared inputs for monthly project review for customer highlighting LAN and server status, problems encountered in the previous month and tasks scheduled for the upcoming quarter.  ? Provided inputs for annual project plan for customer highlighting funding requirements and major projects. Information Systems Engineer The MITRE Corporation March 2001 to July 2005 Product Manager for Symantec AntiVirus for Windows used by MITRE personnel. Responsible for development of installation files for deployment on Windows 9x/NT/2000/XP systems. Configured three Symantec AntiVirus Server installations to provide automatic distribution of virus definition files to attached Windows clients. Over 5500 clients were receiving updated virus definitions on a daily schedule.  * Upgraded Symantec AntiVirus test server from Windows 2000 to Windows 2003 member server  * Assisted with upgrade of production AntiVirus server from Windows 2000 to Windows 2003 member servers  ? Product Manager for Microsoft Office 97, Office 98, Office XP, and Office 2003 used by MITRE personnel. Responsible for development of installation files for deployment on Windows 9x/NT/2000/XP.  * Created setup files to apply customized settings when users installed Office XP mirroring existing  Office 97 settings.  * Created Custom Maintenance Wizard files to add Outlook 2002 and IMAP profile to existing Office XP installations  * Created Custom Installation files for corporate wide upgrade from Office XP to Office 2003  * Created Custom Maintenance Wizard files to add Exchange Profile as new default for Outlook 2003  ? One of two primary presenters for Outlook Kickoff Meetings providing an overview of requirements, features, installation and migration steps for MITRE employee population transitioning from Netscape Messenger to Outlook 2002.  ? Assisted with Outlook Walk-In Centers where MITRE employees that desired assistance with their transition from Netscape Messenger to Outlook 2002 could get help in updating their computers to the required set of applications, installation and configuration of Outlook 2002, migration of local Netscape mail to Outlook 2002 via Outlook Express 6, and importation of Netscape PKI certificates for use within Outlook 2002.  ? Responsible for resolution of user issues concerning Symantec and Office products that could not be resolved by Help Desk or contract support personnel.  ? Provided new and updated content to web pages for responsible products on the MITRE Information Infrastructure (MII) system. Web pages provided information on application function, installation, updates, and frequently asked questions (FAQ's).  ? Responsible for preparation of configuration management documentation and presentations in support of quarterly rollout of software products to users.  ? Trained Help Desk and contracted desk side support personnel on updated and new software applications.  ? Assisted with creation of corporate software images used on all new computer systems to provide a standard set of operating system and software applications to MITRE personnel. Creation of images involved customization of operating system, installation of MITRE standard software, creation of GHOST CD's, and installation testing to confirm images loaded properly on all hardware configurations. Systems Engineer ACS Defense, Inc May 2000 to March 2001 Systems Engineer as part of a three-person team providing 3rd Level Help Desk technical support to qualified system technicians located at end-user sites throughout South/Central America and the Caribbean. Primary support for the South American region which covered seven countries, sixteen operational sites, and ten on-site technical representatives (OSTR's). Fielded trouble calls from downrange sites and attempted to find a solution. Performed remote systems administration when required. Sent upgrade tasking to (OSTR) and tracked status of upgrades on fielded systems.  ? Trained on Exchange 5.5 Server Administration in anticipation of theater wide deployment of Exchange servers. Level 1 Help Desk Support NCI Information Systems, Inc January 2000 to May 2000 Provided technical desktop and network support for approximately 4,000 users on a NetWare 4.11-5.0/Microsoft Windows 95 and NT 4.0 environment.  ? Troubleshoot and configured PCs to ensure LAN/WAN connectivity to local and remote applications, electronic mail, and the Internet using documented procedures and available tools.  ? Resolved configuration issues related to client and LAN software incompatibilities. Used Remote Control software to troubleshoot and configure PC desktops to preclude Level 2-technician dispatch.  ? Used Remedy Action Request System 4.0 to track all calls and pass unresolved problems to Level 2 Desktop Solutions as required. Personally averaged over 85% closure rate for Level 1 calls - customer requirement was 75%.  ? Familiar with User Manager for Domains, Microsoft Office 97/2000 Suite, Netscape and Internet Explorer Browsers, Dial-up Networking, Citrix MetaFrame, Netware Administration for Novell NetWare, and remote control software.  ? Provided technical phone support during deployment of Internet Explorer 5 and Office 2000 Professional. Primary lead for beta testing of Desktop 2000 to 2000 DT2K) computer configuration which was to be deployed to downrange sites within the CNCMS program. DT2K will upgrade all application software. Created GHOST images for several different hardware and classification configurations and tested installation and operation of the configuration.  ? Primary Backup Operator for Enterprise servers utilizing Veritas Backup Exec. Responsible for scheduling and monitoring daily and weekly backups for eleven classified and unclassified Enterprise servers. Resolved technical issues when specific backup jobs failed. Installed two major software upgrades to the Backup Exec software.  ? Troubleshoot hardware, software and network components of a TCP/IP based wide area network composed of multiple MS NT4.0 Server PDC'S and MS Exchange 5.5 Servers.  ? Directly interfaced with product vendors. Education Planning and Migration Learning Tree International 2005 Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering University of Missouri - Columbia, MO 1981 Skills Vmware, Ghost, Netbackup, Avamar, Backup exec, Symantec, Microsoft office, Microsoft windows, Windows 10, Windows 7, Microsoft windows 7, Printers, Pcs Additional Information SOFTWARE KNOWLEDGE    Operating Systems: Applications:    • Microsoft Windows 2016 Server  • Microsoft Windows 2012 Server  • Microsoft Windows 2008 Server  • Microsoft Windows 10  • Microsoft Windows 7  • VMWare 5.0/5.5/6.0/6.5    • Microsoft Office 2007/2010/2013/2016  • Symantec AntiVirus (SAV) Corporate Edition  • Norton Ghost / Norton Utilities  • Avamar Backup  • Symantec NetBackup/Backup Exec  • CPTRAX    HARDWARE KNOWLEDGE    Experienced in deploying and maintaining Dell (Servers, Desktops & Laptop PCs), HP (Servers, Desktop & Laptop PCs), Compaq Proliant Server, Gateway (Desktops & Laptop PCs), and HP LaserJet and DeskJet printers.