SENIOR NETWORK ENGINEER (LEAD) SENIOR NETWORK ENGINEER (LEAD) Network Engineer San Jose, CA Innovative metrics driven Senior Systems and Network Administrator with more than ten years of strategic information system management experience. Demonstrated ability to implement an organization's vision and achieve organizational objectives by creatively managing and motivating staff. Proven track record of successfully implementing service delivery customer service initiatives, that has streamlined internal and external processes. Expertise in supporting large multi-platform environments to drive KPI metric delivery and capacity management.  EXPERTISE IN:  • Systems Integration • Contingency Plans • Vulnerability Assessments  • Strategic Planning • Life Cycle Management • Workforce Planning  • Project Management • Change Management • Authentication & Access Control  • Data Center Planning • Quality Improvement • Inventory & Space Management Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SENIOR NETWORK ENGINEER (LEAD) DOMINION DENTAL - ALEXANDRIA, EG 2012 to Present -Full-time  * Administer and Support the implementation of VMware hardware and operating systems solutions to provide hosting services to multiple data centers.  * Provision/Backup/Restore/Clone Virtual Machines and patches to the software and hardware hosting infrastructure.  * Design and maintain client/server-based LAN/WAN networks and various telecommunications computer systems.  * Advised the senior leadership team on industry trends and internal workforce development needs.  * Facilitated the implementation of technology applications that improved the agency's overall customer service initiatives.  * Maintain data files and control procedures for a complex system of networked computers or for a single group of computers linked to a host Workstation, or Mainframe. Responsible for system security and data integrity.  * Administrator of Microsoft Exchange 2007. Troubleshoot, support, manager of account creations, migration, and recovery. Redundant environment, setup/configuration, administration.  * Generated Purchase Order Requests and installed and customized new equipment.  * Troubleshoot, research, diagnose, document, and resolve technical issues surrounding Windows NT, Windows 2000  * Professional, MS Office, e-mail, Internet connections, and hardware/peripherals.  * Maintenance of the Network Management Diagrams to include all CISCO Infrastructure components and associated network devices. Diagrams are maintained in a Microsoft Visio format.  * Creation of Network Infrastructure logs books to house problem management documentation, change management documentation, and status checklists.  * Manages IT contracts, project plans, policies and procedures and proposals  * Responsible external vendor relationships and vendor services contracts  * Reviewed operational and technical security aspects associated with specific sites and facilities to determine vulnerability and threat.  * Develop corresponding security countermeasures  * Served as team lead and adviser to 5 Information Technology Specialist NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR HIBBERT GROUP - Trenton, NJ 2007 to 2012 -Full-Time  * Provide daily administrative and engineering on-site support in analyzing, designing, implementing and administering the Smithsonian's Cisco Network Infrastructure and associated network components.  * Served as the change management and technical adviser for the creation of the Training and Organizational Development Department.  * Maintain data files and control procedures for a complex system of networked computers or for a single group of computers linked to a host Workstation, or Mainframe.  * Oversee server tuning, capacity management, and inventory management  * Provide and Execute hardware support and Engineering/Architecture/Design guidance  * Responsible for system security and data integrity. Assigns passwords and monitors use of resources, backs up files as required and works with management to define requests for information.  * Provides technical guidance to lesser-experienced system administrators. Submit and follow-up trouble tickets.  * Troubleshoots system software provides help desk support to users, and assists with 24-hour software support as required. Provides on-site assistance to local and field sites users as required.  * Lead advisor to the client service help desk. Performed cost analysis and providing input towards the acquisition of network security equipment, which includes hardware, operating systems, and software appliances.  * Manages and coordinates with the Agency, the migration to Windows XP SP3 and Office suite 2003/2007. Prepares and configures the PDA (Blackberry's) for the Agency's over 650 working devices and coordinates the deployment to the users.  * Developed and administered new hire training for Technicians on application software, and troubleshoots end user problems.  * Provided on-site assistance to local and field sites users as required. Lead advisor to the client service help desk. Performed cost analysis and providing input towards the acquisition of network security equipment, which includes hardware, operating systems, and software appliances  * Use Remedy Action Request System to initiate and track all change and Help Desk requests. MS Project plans are created and submitted as attachments to all Remedy change requests senior systems engineer HIBBERT GROUP 2007 to 2012 SONAR TECH (2007-2012)  * Managed all preventive and corrective maintenance on the integrated Unisys Multi-Mainframe Suite and the Combat Information Center's Hughes Air Craft radar/digital display systems.  * Trained and mentored junior technicians, served as senior systems engineer on Unisys UYK-7 Mainframes for the memberships of the Cruiser-Destroyer squadron while on deployment, and conducted all technical and administrative tasks such as maintenance reports, supply requisitions, casualty reports and personnel performance evaluations Education Microsoft Systems Center 2003 to 2010 Information Systems Howard University - Washington, DC 2001 to 2005 Certificate in Training Georgetown University - Washington, DC Additional Information Open to international Relocation