Infrastructure Engineer Infrastructure Engineer Infrastructure Engineer - Kahoot Austin, TX Work Experience Infrastructure Engineer Kahoot - Austin, TX 2015 to Present • Operating, monitoring, and scaling a distributed infrastructure according to daily and seasonal demand for 75M+ monthly active users.  • Building, containerizing, and orchestrating microservices in multiple cloud providers.  • Architecting and automating CI/CD systems to decrease the release time of our main  REST API service from more than a day to less than 30 minutes.  • Overhauling, upgrading, and automating backups systems reducing time between backups from 1 week to 24 hours.  • Developing and deploying microservices and serverless applications.  • Investigating and solving network and performance issues. Systems Administrator IT Freedom - Austin, TX 2014 to 2015 Deployed and managed Linux servers and routers, network hardware, software  upgrades, and maintained documentation for 30+ local medium and small businesses.  • Renewed and installed TLS/SSL certificates. Implemented monitoring.  • Developed and debugged scripts, applications, and databases. Support Technician IT Freedom - Austin, TX 2012 to 2014 • Improved processes for deployment of remote systems through automation.  • Assisted engineering team with Linux server and network deployments.  • Trained all new employees and resolved escalated issues. Support Specialist The University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX 2008 to 2012 • Managed hundreds of servers and desktop systems in computer labs.  • Automated processes and coded scripts to integrate systems.  • Implemented web-based issue logging system. Skills Docker, Git, Javascript, Jenkins, Python, Apache, Dns, nginx, Tomcat, Dynamodb, CouchBase, Elasticsearch, Nosql, Redis, Chef, Nagios, Networking, Tcp/ip, Mysql, Postgresql, Linux, Shell Links https://github.com/brokenkey Additional Information Skills  • Python, Bash, Java, C, JavaScript, Debian, Ubuntu, RHEL, CentOS  • Git, GitHub, GitLab, Jenkins, Google Cloud, AWS, DataDog, Nagios  • CouchBase, Elasticsearch, NoSQL, MySQL, PostgresQL, DynamoDB, X-Pack, Redis,  NGINX, Apache, Varnish, Tomcat, DNS, WebSockets  • Chef, Ansible, Terraform, Containers, Kubernetes, Jenkins X, Docker  • APIs, TCP/IP Networking, CI/CD, træfik, cert-manager