Infrastructure Systems Administrator Infrastructure <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Infrastructure Systems Administrator - Local Government Federal Credit Union Pittsboro, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Infrastructure Systems Administrator Local Government Federal Credit Union - Raleigh, NC March 2012 to Present • In my current role, I am responsible for computer and network systems administration, systems security, hardware maintenance, and operations support for several secure computer facilities employing Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Windows, VMware VSphere 5.x-6.x  • New server builds in VMware vshpere of Windows server 2012, 2016 and Red Hat Enterprise Linux systems.  • Server patching and daily maintenance of all Windows servers.  • Windows Server security auditing, hardening and remediation.  • Rack and stack new servers, appliances and networking gear as needed.  • Manage and maintain multiple storage platforms including NetApp SAN system, Synology rack storage systems and Tintri storage systems.  • Companywide administration of Veeam Backup and Replication systems.  • Support and administration functions for company-wide Exchange on line environment and Office 365 administration.  • Mimecast Email security cloud administration.  • Cisco / Meraki wireless AP and switch installation and management with Meraki cloud.  • Escalation point for internal service desk when needed. Support Engineer (Contractor) Thomson Reuters Medical - Durham, NC October 2011 to March 2012 • Support of web applications running on Windows, iOS, Android, and Oracle  • Installation and application upgrades to Windows servers, Oracle 10 to 11g upgrades.  • Windows Server maintenance and patching. Helpdesk Support Administrator Performance Fibers - New Hill, NC January 2006 to September 2011 • Exchange 2003/2007 server administration, Blackberry Enterprise Server Admin.  • Windows Server 2003 and 2008R2 support.  • Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 8.  • End user support of Americas facilities in 4 US states, Windows client/ server environment.  • Dell hardware, laptop and desktop refresh cycle management.  • IT asset management and tracking.  • Travel to US and international facilities when needed to support the projects and initiatives of company IT infrastructure.  • Worked on various acquisitions and merger projects to connect newly purchased companies into our existing client/ server environments. Systems admin Electronic Service Solutions - Hackensack, NJ October 2004 to October 2005 • Traveled to customer sites to support and install PC's, Servers, Mobile data PC's in police cars.  • Support of customers over phone and remotely.  • Setup point to point networks with Motorola Canopy products. Education Other Skills System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Linux, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses MCP June 2005 to Present MCDST April 2005 to Present VCA-DCV October 2013 to Present VM Ware certified Associate, Data Center Vert.