IT Consultant IT Consultant Systems Administrator Jacksonville, FL A results-driven IT Professional with 10+ years of hands-on experience in the management, engineering and support of information systems. Track record of diagnosing and resolving complex problems and consistently delivering effective solutions with minimal supervision. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Consultant Franks Sports Shop - Bronx, NY March 2019 to May 2019 contract)  • Configured VMWare virtual environment to host 4 Windows 2016 servers, and virtual desktops.  • Azure -created 1 additional Windows Server 2016 VM on existing Azure environment.  • Configured File/Printer/ Backup servers. Reconfigured DHCP and DNS services.  • Setup VoIP phone system for 20 desk phones. Senior Systems Administrator Securitas Electronic Security - Jacksonville, FL June 2018 to January 2019 • Citrix XenApp - planned, implemented, and maintained Citrix XenApp farm.  • VoIP phone systems - installed, configured, and managed phone system, voice switches, call routing.  • Active Directory -managed domains, OUs, sites, user objects, groups, GPOs, domain controllers.  • Performed administration activities such as setting user accounts, roles, access, and privileges.  • Backups administrator - configured server, created backup jobs using CommVault and Symantec BackupExec.  • Windows Servers 2008/2012/2016 -building, configuring, patching, upgrading, troubleshooting Win Servers.  • O365 -created and managed user accounts, groups, Public Folders, and permissions.  • Performed preventive maintenance, software/hardware upgrades, patch maintenance and firmware upgrades.  • Azure -setup new AD accounts, created new Windows VMs.  • VMWare -created, configured, managed new VMs, and helped with troubleshooting systems.  • DHCP and DNS administrator - created new scopes, DNS zones, troubleshoot issues affecting systems.  • Responsible for the administration of business applications systems running on Windows and Linux servers.  • Primary IT tech leading the successful migration of legacy systems, business apps to Securitas network. Senior Systems Administrator Kratos Defense & Security Solutions, Inc - Jacksonville, FL January 2011 to June 2018 • Continuously drive to improve processes for improved performance.  • Active Directory -configured and managed domains, OUs, sites, user objects, groups, GPOs, domain controllers.  • Citrix XenApp and MS TS services -planned, implemented, maintained Citrix XenApp farm, and TS Services.  • Windows Servers 2008/2012/2016 - configured and managed Windows servers, patching, upgrading.  • MS Exchange 2010 -helped managed mailbox size, created distribution groups, created new mailbox for new users, public folder, externals contact, email message routing, troubleshooting.  • Printer and File Server administrator -configured server, created login scripts to map printers and file shares.  • VMWare -completed various projects migrating physical systems to VM environment, setup/managed new VMs.  • Backups administrator - configured server, created backup jobs using CommVault and Symantec BackupExec.  • Performed custom application changes in development, testing environment, and production environments.  • VoIP systems administrator -designed, managed phone system (VoIP) environment for multiple remote locations.  • Networking -assisted with the setup of Cisco switches, VLAN, DHCP/DNS services, troubleshooting.  • Spearheaded the successful completion of various site migration projects (AD, computers/servers, GPOs, users)  • Disaster Recovery - key member of the disaster recovery team between data centers in Florida and California.  • Responsible for the administration of business applications systems running on Windows and Linux servers.  • SAN administrator -configured and managed EMC SAN system used as file storage server.  • Always able to drive a project to completion with minimum supervision. Senior Systems Administrator Henry Bros. Electronics, Inc - Fair Lawn, NJ July 2008 to January 2011 • Windows Servers 2008/2012/2016 administrator -configured and managed Windows servers.  • Printer and File Server administrator -configured server, created login scripts to map printers and network shares.  • Microsoft Exchange 2003/2010, and Blackberry (BES) server administrator -designed, configured, and managed.  • Active Directory -configured and managed domains, OUs, sites, user objects, groups, GPOs, domain controllers.  • Citrix XenApp -configured and managed Citrix XenApp farm available to users in remote locations.  • VMWare -configured and managed small VM environment to support various business applications.  • DHCP and DNS administrator -created new scopes, DNS zones, troubleshoot issues affecting systems.  • Configured Cisco switches, as well as troubleshoot network related problems.  • Responsible for the administration of business applications systems running on Windows and Linux servers.  • Backups administrator -configured server, created and managed backup jobs and schedules using CommVault and Symantec BackupExec  • VoIP phone systems administrator -configured and managed VoIP (phone system) environment for multiple remote locations.  • Level 2 / Level 3 supporting 350+ users in remote locations using OTRS ticketing system. Manager of Information Technology St. Christopher's, Inc - Dobbs Ferry, NY August 2004 to March 2008 • Successfully managed the IT department to support the company's network, servers, and workstations for 375+ users across 5 locations.  • Single-handedly setup and configured the complete computer environment for a new school (120 Dell computers, 20 HP networked printers, LAN, 2003 Windows domain, DHCP, DNS)  • Responsible for the configuration, administration and maintenance of the agency's technology environment, including but not limited to the following;  ? Active Directory, Exchange Server, Application Sever, network switches  ? Firewall, Spam / Web Filter, Web Server, Citrix, Intranet SharePoint Server  ? 320+ Computers, 150+ Printers, 5 Different Locations, 3 Schools, 375+ Users  ? Daily backups using Symantec BackupExec Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer System in Computer System New York City College of Technology - Brooklyn, NY June 2006 A.A.S. in Computer Information System Bronx Community College - Bronx, NY June 2001 Skills Active directory, Citrix, Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip Additional Information SKILLS:  ? Microsoft Windows Servers 2003/2008/2012/2016, Windows 7/10, Linux  ? Citrix XenApp, VMWare, Azure, MS Exchange  ? VoIP systems, ShoreTel  ? SAN, NAS, EMC VNX, NetApp  ? Symantec BackupExec, CommVault  ? Dell servers, EMC VNX, IBM servers, HP Servers, MFPs copiers, routers, switches wireless routers  ? O365, Microsoft Office Suit, MS Outlook, Timberline, Orange HRM  ? Active Directory, TCP/IP suit, DNS, DHCP, VPN, VLAN, VoIP, switches, routers  ? Bilingual (English/Spanish)