Sr. Systems Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Marketing Support Specialist Maple Grove, MN Accomplished enterprise systems engineer with more than 17 years experience designing, implementing, maintaining and monitoring enterprise-wide I.T. infrastructure and systems. Proven expertise architecting on-premise, cloud and virtual infrastructure and networks. Excellent analytical, social, problem-solving and communication skills. Determined, proactive, self-starter and team leader. Work Experience Sr. Systems Administrator Home Buyers Marketing, Inc. - Minneapolis, MN April 2005 to Present Achievements  •      Full migration from physical to virtual on-premise environment in a 10 node cluster supporting nearly 700 virtual machines using VMware ESXi/vSphere.   •      Configured and built multiple Microsoft Azure environments to support Azure SQL databases and web APIs for development and production websites. Also used Azure automation function to scale performance to save on costs.  •      Created Hybrid on premise and Azure cloud environment with Azure AD/ADFS for Exchange and Office 365 hybrid integration.  •      Responsible for planning and configuring complete network infrastructure overhaul in 2015. Replaced severely old, outdated and unsupported network gear with new Cisco Nexus Switches, Cisco ASA Firewall, and F5 LTM load balancers.  •      Incorporated asset management, logging, monitoring and alert notification services to entire infrastructure providing better management performance and availability metrics that were not otherwise available.   •      Executed migration from failing and unsupported EMC SAN storage system to Dell/Compellent SAN storage to support VMware infrastructure. Later additional upgrade to 250TB total storage supporting enterprise applications and SQL databases.  Complete virtualization (VMware) of more than 20 dedicated corporate office servers, saving space and power consumption. Reduced hardware and storage down to a 2 node ESXi cluster with Compellent SAN storage.    Recent Projects  •      Installed/configured/maintained internal video display system using free software with Raspberry Pi devices. This allowed staff to easily manage and add content to displays from a web interface that was also cost effective.   •      Configured and designed SQL replication server to allow for internal and client reporting while also removing performance issues from production SQL servers.   •      Setup and configured Microsoft SharePoint server for internal users to have department work spaces, ability for workflows and documentation pages. Also created company wide time off/attendance for using InfoPath and custom workflows.   •      Installed and configured company video surveillance system for safety and security purposes using PoE switches and HD cameras.     Daily Responsibilities  •      Monitor systems for intrusions or denial of service attacks, and report security breaches to appropriate personnel.  •      Work with development teams to facilitate countless production deployments of web, mobile, API, application and infrastructure deployments  •      Operate master consoles to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use.  •      Architect infrastructure solutions on-premise and cloud based IAAS and PAAS.  •      Maintain hardware, networks, systems software, applications and configurations.  •      Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  •      Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware.  •      Research new technologies by attending seminars, reading trade articles, or taking classes, and implement or recommend the implementation of new technologies.  •      Analyze equipment performance records to determine the need for repair or replacement.  •      Implement and provide technical support for voice services and equipment, such as private branch exchange, voice mail system, and telecom system.  •      Vendor management to facilitate hardware/software cost estimates, licensing, purchase orders, implementation.  •      Install or configure web server software or hardware to ensure that directory structure is well-defined, logical, secure, and that the files are named properly.  •      Set up or maintain monitoring tools on web servers or web sites and other critical business services. Analyze network data to determine network usage, disk space availability, or server function. Marketing Support Specialist Home Buyers Marketing, Inc 2002 to 2005 Achievements  • Assisted in the planning design and training of companies first ever platform for placing order for material online.  • Prepped all material for monthly Executive Management Training. Set up site, prepped audio and video equipment and provided technical support during these events.  • Managed group of staff to help print and collate training materials, burn CD training videos, and package for shipping to fulfill customer orders for materials and for on site training's by sales team.    Daily Responsibilities  • Prepare documents, such as work orders, bills of lading, or shipping orders, to route materials.  • Determine shipping method for materials, using knowledge of shipping procedures, routes, and rates.  • Requisition and store shipping materials and supplies to maintain inventory of stock.  • Contact carrier representatives to make arrangements or to issue instructions for shipping and delivery of materials.  • Printed, collated, built training and management material used by lending and real estate companies nationwide. Education A.S. in Network Administrator/Analyst Hennepin Technical College - Brooklyn Park, MN December 2005 Windows Networking Certificate in Computer Science Hennepin Technical College - Brooklyn Park, MN December 2005 Linux/Unix Networking Certificate in Computer Science Hennepin Technical College - Brooklyn Park, MN December 2005 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, EXCHANGE, IIS, NAS, SHAREPOINT, REPLICATION, SQL, SSRS, PHP, RASPBERRY PI, IAAS, PAAS, ADFS, SPLUNK, LAN/WAN, VMWARE, VPN, ANDROID, System Administrator, SCCM, Linux, Powershell, System Admin Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/brian-robillard-bb451365 Additional Information Technology Skills  SQL/SSMS/SSRS/SQL Replication. SQL Azure, auto-scaling, IaaS, PaaS, BIG-IP F5 LTM Load Balancers, Active Directory, DNS, IIS, Apache, PHP, FTP, VoIP, LAN/WAN, VPN, Cisco Wireless, SAN/NAS, VMware/vSphere/ESXi/Cluster, Raspberry Pi, Network Video Display, IoT Automation, LaView Video Surveillance, Ring Central, Packet8    Software  Cloud Services (Azure, Azure AD/ADFS, Amazon AWS, Rackspace, XO Communications), Kubernetes/Container Orchestration, Office 365, Exchange, Sharepoint, PowerMTA, Lansweeper, Powershell, NagiosXI, Splunk, Sophos, CloudFlare, Litmus, Google Analytics, Azure Application Insights, Jira, Slack, Freshdesk, Basecamp, Trello    Operating Systems  Windows Desktop, Windows Server, Linux, OSX, IOS, Android