Systems Administrator Intermediate <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Intermediate Experienced Data Analyst Salem, OR Data Analyst with extensive knowledge and background as an Information Technology Specialist. Resourceful in completing projects on time; Able to multi-task effectively; Excellent Organizational Skills; Strong Communication and Team Leadership Skills and Computer IT Proficiency. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Intermediate Kaiser Permanente - Lake Oswego, OR October 2016 to August 2019 Responsible for maintaining the stability of healthcare applications in multiple regions. Consulted with the business partners and application teams to get finances approved for future projects on applications.  • Tested and validated the data within the application's databases.  • Created and managed User Access accounts using Active Directory.  • Ran SQL queries in MS SQL to create reports that provided critical intelligence.    • Created a high-level tracking sheet using MS Excel for the purpose of tracking financial information for application intake and onboarding projects between the years 2018 - 2020.    • Used tableau for portfolio analysis and reported the findings to the Managers and Executive Director, as part of tracking the yearly budget on application projects.    • Acted as a consultant to the business partners to address their needs and troubleshoot issues.  • Administration and day-to-day management of the Server Infrastructure with a focus on Windows 2008/2012, Exchange, MS SQL, MS SharePoint and Active Directory.  • Strictly adhered to KP policies in the use of Service Now for all incidents, changes, problems, and communication with end users and stakeholders    System Administrator Intermediate,  • Correlated incident trends into problem management and executed permanent fixes.  • Reviewed and interpreted alerts and provided advanced response, analysis and incident management.  • Provided technical support of four applications, that included 32 sites.  • Management a network in four regions, consisting of 42 servers (Prod and Non-Prod), 25 DR servers and end-user groups ranging around 400+ users.  • Technical problem isolation and resolution capability.  • Captured data from the HL7 server logs to analyze and troubleshoot ADT HL7 messages.  • Provided support to production systems in a 24x7 environment.  • Planned and managed the required service changes and deployed service releases into Production and Non-Production server environments.  • Design and implemented a wide range of projects; including server consolidations, migrations and upgrades.  • Implemented quarterly purge and rebuild of databases in multiple regions, as part of routine maintenance of the databases. Database Analyst Intern Kaiser Permanente - Lake Oswego, OR June 2016 to October 2016 Created a database schema map in preparation to export archived data from the existing Incident Database in Lotus Notes into SharePoint. For the purpose of being used as a prototype solution for a new repository document-share system for migration purposes.  • Developed a migration plan and top three migration risks for moving data from old repository to a new repository.  • Created a UML style schema to map out the database tables in order to capture archived data.  • Captured archived data from a meta data repository for exporting into in a new repository.  • Collaborated with the Mainframe Development Leads to develop new repository schema.  • Used tableau to report the findings to the Mainframe Development Leads and Managers.  • Setup a homepage in the groups MS SharePoint site and designed it to be ready to store data. Supervisor/Technician Holistic Pet Veterinary Clinic - Tigard, OR April 2007 to June 2016 Responsible for supervising a medical staff of 10, along with managing technical projects.  • Acted as a consultant to the stakeholder, then developed a business plan for automating their intake forms from hard copy to electronic form to increase efficiency in the daily workflow.  • Used MS Visio to design UML diagrams for the web pages.  • Generated web pages in ASP.NET coded in C# designed for the intake forms.  • Constructed a database in MS SQL Server 20012 matching the tables identical to the ones used in the clinic's existing database.  • Used Open Database Connectivity to connect the web pages to the new database and Windows Communication Foundation to create an interface between the existing database and the new database.  • Used the clinic's database to create new patient records or pull up data on existing patients. Education Bachelor's in (BS), Information Technology Oregon Institute of Technology - Wilsonville, OR September 2017 to March 2019 Associate in (AS), Computer Information Systems Chemeketa Community College - Salem, OR January 2011 to December 2013 Skills Database, Database design, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Relational database, Sql, Ms project, Sharepoint, Tableau, Ajax, Asp, Asp.net, C#, Html, Javascript, Php, Software integration, Visio, Active directory Links http://linkedin.com/in/brian-blackburn-informatics Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Microsoft 365 Productivity Suite and Teams • Skype • SQL Server  • Windows Server 2008/2012 R2 • Active Directory • WebEx  • Visio • OneNote • MS Project, Access  • SharePoint • UNIX/Linux • Oracle Java  • JavaScript, Ajax • C# • HTML  • FTP • Visual Paradigm • Visual Studios  • ASP.NET • Crystal Reports • Tableau  • Oracle PL/SQL • IBM Lotus Notes • PHP  ADVANCED TECHNICAL SKIILLS  • Advanced Database Applications Programming • Hardware/Software Integration  • Business Systems Analyst • Networking  • Business Intelligence • Relational Database Design  • Database Management • Health Care systems & Policy