IT SPECIALIST IT SPECIALIST IT SPECIALIST Work Experience IT SPECIALIST CHIORINO AMERICA - Suwanee, GA June 2018 to June 2019 * Responsible for administrating internal and external systems to include wired and wireless networks and intranet.  * Install, maintain and upgrade computer and networking hardware and internal infrastructure, monitor system and email server configuration changes, mitigate data loss by disaster recovery and incremental data backups.  * Repair and recover from hardware/software failures while coordinating and communicating with impacted constituencies. Deploy, install and configure networking and conferencing equipment. Assist with ERP integration.  * Analyze, troubleshoot and resolve network and email issues, system hardware/software, IP phones and printers.  * Install, configure, troubleshoot, test Barracuda VPN connections. RDP into remote servers. Employ ITIL framework.  * Set up, configure, optimize and test provisioned end-user computer software, hardware and peripherals.  * Establish IT administrator controls, institute principals of least privilege for user accounts.  * Support internal/remote users using PC, Mac, iOS and Android operating systems, report/act upon diagnostic trends.  * Troubleshoot network architecture locally/remotely, providing recommendations for optimization and enhancement.  * Support for employees via Teamviewer. New user onboarding/offboarding and access control.  * Administer UniFi wireless LAN controllers. Monitor web access and maintain secure systems environment.  * IP phone system installation, configuration, upgrades, maintenance, routing, programming of Yealink IP phones  * Engineer solutions and spearhead seminars educating users on preventative security measures and best-use practices.  * Analyze, document, provide incident response and resolution of IT projects and incidents impacting constituents.  * Maintain company assets by managing and actively tracking inventory via tagging system.  * Regularly provide recommendations and resolutions involving complex issues within established practices.  * Communicate technical information to non-technical end users using understandable terminology. CLIENT SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR / IT SPECIALIST BOMGAR CORPORATION March 2016 to April 2018 * Responsible for effective provisioning and testing of network devices, installation/configuration, operation, and ongoing updates of end user hardware, software and related infrastructure for internal and external employees.  * Deploy and manage conditional access MDM policies using InTune and MobileIron.  * Analyze, document, and provide incident response and resolution of IT projects using ServiceNow, Quest/Dell Kace K1000, RDP and Bomgar Rep Console, ensuring projects are completed to satisfaction of impacted constituents.  * Deploy and install equipment, image laptops using Sysprep, optimize Windows OS, configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with existing standards and operational protocols.  * Repair and recover from hardware/software failures using Crashplan and Carbonite while coordinating and communicating with impacted constituencies.  * Approve software and hardware requests and provision software licensing keys. Migration of user data to newly provisioned equipment.  * Test approved software for infrastructure compatibility issues. Troubleshoot Windows, Adobe, Android, iOS, etc.  * Perform acquisition infrastructure integration. Install operating system patches, programs and security upgrades on a regular basis while monitoring system performance and compatibility.  * Run Powershell scripts for infrastructure modifications. Deploy Microsoft 365 and Adobe suite.  * Build Virtual Machines using VMware based on user project requirements. Functioned as a Solutions Engineer.  * Communicate technical information to non-technical end users using understandable terminology.  * Regularly provide recommendations and resolutions involving complex issues within established practices.  * Complete trend investigation of incidents involving in-house and remote users, report findings to the IT team.  * Administer Brivo badge security systems and related systems of security. Create/maintain distribution groups.  * Protect the organization's unique assets by keeping privileged information and practices confidential.  * Maintain computing environment and assets by managing and actively tracking inventory.  * Configure/troubleshoot Crestron conferencing systems and Polycom IP phones. Create conference bridges.  * Promoted from Information Technology Specialist to Client Systems Administrator. Resolved over 2400 incidents during my tenure. IT SPECIALIST PAIR OF GUYS MOVERS - Cumming, GA July 2007 to March 2016 * Technical DevOps support to include resolution of network, software/hardware, Wi-Fi and printer issues.  * Active Directory account creation, database maintenance, managing resource/group permissions, distro creation.  * Installation and maintenance of software and hardware.  * Implement file backups and restore system images.  * Configure network settings and protocols (TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP), LAN wired and wireless network configurations, equipment installs. Remote Access via TeamViewer and RDP.  * Serve as a Computer Support Technician and Webmaster to create ads, blogs, commercials. Orchestrate multi-platform campaigns, optimize PPC and SEO campaigns. Leveraged Google AdWords and Google Analytics to drive sales to exceed established quarterly goals.  * Conduct root cause and threat analysis for issues impacting systems performance/stability.  * Manage processes and operations in accordance with state and federal regulations  * Act upon frequent audits by Public Service Commission of Georgia to maintain consistent A+ ratings. Education Computer Information Systems Lanier Technical College - Cumming, GA Computer Science/Psychology Georgia State University - Atlanta, GA Computer & Information Sciences Northern Illinois University - DeKalb, IL Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, Network design, Systems administration, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Vpn, Wireless lan, Wireless network, Devops, Dns, Encryption, Itil, Nas, Network attached storage, Networking, Service level agreements, Virtualization Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelketterer Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY    SOFTWARE: Microsoft Office 365 suite to include Outlook, Word, Excel, OneNote, Microsoft Teams, Skype For Business, Onedrive, Sharepoint, and Powerpoint. Azure AD, Microsoft Intune Mobile Device Management (MDM), MobileIron, Powershell, PXE environments, Sysprep. Network Settings and Protocols: TCP/IP, DNS and DHCP, Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP), Bomgar, TeamViewer, GoToMeeting, Adobe suite, FTP, BIOS, Network backup/restore, Crashplan and Carbonite cloud backup, MS System Recovery and data migration, RDP Active Directory (AD) Groups and Group Policies, Distribution Groups (distro), User Creation (ADUC), ITIL, Malware & Virus Remediation. Deployment of network PC images via .WIM files. Bitlocker Data Encryption and updates via WSUS. VMware virtualization and Hypervisors, Cisco VPN, Barracuda VPN, UniFi wireless LAN controllers, ServiceNow and Quest/Dell Kace ticketing systems, Concur and Gimp.    HARDWARE: Experience with preparation and deployment of Desktops, Laptops, Tablets, Mobile Devices, Microsoft Surface Hub. Servers, Routers, Modems, Gateways, Switches, Hubs, Ethernet and Wireless Network Equipment, Network Attached Storage (NAS), RAM, HDD, Graphics Cards and Adapters, Peripheral Devices, Inkjet and Laser wired and wireless Printers, Image/Text Scanners, Bar code/label scanners, Docks, Polycom, Shoretel and Yealink IP phones, Crestron and Microsoft conferencing systems.  OPERATING SYSTEMS: Windows 10, 7, Vista, 2000 Professional, Server 2012, ME, XP, 98. Android. MacOS, iOS.  BUSINESS SKILLS: Root cause analysis, Data analysis and forecasting, Network design, Systems administration, Data protection, Account management, Process engineering, Networking, Auditing, Client Relationship Management (CRM), Sales and Solutions engineering, Asset management, Benchmarking, Service Level Agreements (SLA), ERP, Devops.  Knowledgeable in Search Engine Marketing campaigns (SEM), Keyword research and generation, Mentoring and Training. Strong analytical and troubleshooting skills. Self-disciplined, detailed, organized, highly motivated.