Engineering Systems Administrator Engineering <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Engineering Systems Administrator Douglas, MA Obtain a strategic position that will challenge my abilities and also drive the need for further growth/knowledge. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Engineering Systems Administrator INSTRON - Norwood, MA July 2004 to November 2018 Administer and support Team Foundation Server, the management system used by the engineering  group and other departments for - issue/bug tracking, source control, change management, version  control, project development and process control. Work flows, user access, permissions,  maintenance, back-ups and customizing forms to match work flows. Administer and support  laboratory equipment used for software development and testing. Maintain an inventory of test  systems, accessories, setting maintenance and calibration schedules, the building and upgrading of lab and department computers. Software and Web Testing also assist with software builds. Service Coordinator INSTRON - Canton, MA November 2001 to April 2004 Maintain the Management System for parts and repair by entering and updating information  related to services rendered for customers and FSE's. Work with customers, FSE's and repair  technicians to ensure the correct information is available on all RMA's and orders in process.  Work with the accounting department in processing customer orders along with providing the required paperwork for invoice creation. Material Handler INSTRON - Canton, MA November 1998 to October 2001 Work with technicians in making sure all necessary equipment and materials are on hand.  Maintain SB Client; a manufacturing software designed to keep track of every step in the manufacturing, sale and shipping process. Work with planners through newly implemented  standards and procedures so that the flow of production is without interruption. Assist and train  new employees on company software. Inventory Control Assistant ADE CORPORATION - Newton, MA June 1997 to September 1998 Work with a team to ensure the proper flow of materials to each department on the production  floor is without interruption, while monitoring and updating SB Client to accurately reflect  inventory. Education Associate Degree in Computer Science Wentworth Institute of Technology - Boston, MA 2000 to 2003 Certificate in Construction Technology Wentworth Institute of Technology - Boston, MA 1989 to 1990 Certificate in Computer Technology Benjamin Franklin Institute of Technology - Boston, MA 1988 to 1989 Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY  Microsoft Office: Access, PowerPoint, Excel. Issue Tracking Systems/Source Control: JIRA, TFS, Tracker.  Windows Operating Systems: win 7, win 10, win Server 08, 08 r2, win server 2012, and SQL Server 2012.  Visual Basic Programming, C++, C#, Java I, Java II, Data Base Management, Intro to Project Management,  Data Structures I, Web Development, Physics.