Network Engineer Network Engineer Network Engineer Glendale, CA Over 9 years of professional experience, including:  • Expertise in creating reliable, scalable network architectures, with high availability, fault tolerance, performance tuning, monitoring, and statistics/metrics collection.  • Expert working knowledge Cisco ASA Firewalls, Routers and Switches in enterprise environment.(Static Route, RIPv1, EIGRP, OSPF, Policy Based Routing, Route Filtering, VTP, STP, Trunking, VLANs, Ether Channels)  • Worked extensively with Hospital Clientele utilizing Cisco ASAs, Juniper and Sonicwall Firewalls, over 400 IPSEC Site-to-Site VPN tunnels configurations for PACS imaging.  • Expert working knowledge of Ecessa Powerlink and BIG-IP F5 GTM and LTM Load Balancers, for network with internet failover, link aggregation, load balancing and WAN optimization/hardware failover, Authoritative DNS,  • Enterprise level anti-virus / spy ware / spam (Trend-Micro, Symantec, MacAfee, Spam Titan, Barracuda).  • Systems Engineering and Administration in a cloud based environment consisting of multiple Data Centers, with over 1,500 remote presence Robot devices, 400+ SurePACS imaging servers and 300+ end-users.  • Microsoft Windows Server (2003-2012, inclusive), Microsoft Windows Exchange Server (Exchange 2003-2013, inclusive), Microsoft Windows Desktop (Windows XP-Windows 10, inclusive), Microsoft Office Suite (97-Office 10, inclusive).  • Enterprise level VMWare ESXi, vSphere, vCenter, vMotion, EMC VNXe3200  • Infrastructure monitoring, performance tuning, statistic/metrics collections with Orion Solarwinds, Kaseya, WireShark, GNS3, Cisco ASDM, and node specific CLI.  • Enterprise level back-up (VEEAM, Symantec Backup Exec, Acronis, Quantum Tape backups stored off-site rotations with Iron Mountain)  • Responsible for Telecommunications infrastructure for the company; Shoretel VOIP.  • Data-Center construction (cabling, rack mounting, planning, implementation, administration, etc.).  • Systems Engineer experienced with NOC 24x7 operations rotation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer InTouch Health Technologies October 2011 to August 2018 InTouch Health is an FDA cleared Healthcare Robotics Company that provides technology-enabled services to healthcare providers for the delivery of high-quality clinical care virtually anywhere, anytime with its cloud base infrastructure. The suite of innovative solutions facilitates remote active patient monitoring and stroke diagnosis, allowing smaller, remote hospitals to bring remote talented specialists into their healthcare model providing better care for the patients. As the Network Engineer/ Administrator, I manage and architect an internationally accessible, always available network infrastructure.  • Led design / implementation / administration team for "SureCONNECT" cloud-based infrastructure and technologies enable the highest levels of connectivity and network performance.  • Designed an end to end network / hardware solution to allow FDA and HIPAA compliant remote access to radiology / imagery. "SurePACS" diagnostic viewing solution allowing physicians to securely connect from any location to hospital's PACS network system and quickly access imaging studies.  • Wrote and implemented business continuity plan, HIPAA compliance documentation and designed disaster recovery solution  • Implemented International Presence with Data Centers in Australia, Singapore, Shanghai, London and as well as US presence in LA, Vegas, Santa Barbara, Austin, Florida, Oregon and Milwaukee to support robot technologies dispersed around the world. Systems Administrator Milbank Real Estate Services Inc October 2005 to May 2011 • Research, designed, implemented and administered the entire network topology.  • Daily administration of over 20 Microsoft Windows Servers / Networks, spanning multiple locations. Software administration / maintenance includes all facets of the integrated Microsoft environment. Setup and maintained all backups for file, email, and SQL servers.  • Company Disaster Recovery: development and testing, ongoing maintenance.  • Created and maintained documentation of policies and procedures.  • Monitored and maintained network and security.  • Responsible for the upgrade and maintenance of the company-wide Exchange servers (Exchange5.5 to Exchange 2003).  • Setup and maintained BlackBerry Enterprise Server 4.0  • Responsible for all aspects of network administration within the company comprising over 200 hosts. Electronic Funds Transfer Specialist Zions First National Bank March 2005 to October 2005 • Perform all functions related to Electronic Funds Transfers, NACHA regulations.  • Responsible for daily Automated Clearing House origination (California Bank and Trust, Nevada State Bank, National Bank of Arizona, Zions Bank)  • Setup, configure, administer new business clients for EFT  • Disperse notices to clients of EFT activity and Direct Deposits  • Direct contact with Federal Reserve, upper management to insure accurate EFTs Education Bachelor of Science in Management of Information Systems in MIS California State University Northridge (CSUN) December 2003 Skills Vmware, Active Directory, System Administrator, Data Center, TCP/IP, Windows Server, Network Administration, Network Engineering, Cisco, Linux, Networking, VPN, Exchange, security, LAN, DNS, firewalls, SQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/crassepani/ Certifications/Licenses MCSE CCNA