IT Asset Manager IT Asset Manager IT Professional San Diego, CA Analytical, astute and forward-thinking Procurement Professional offers demonstrated record of success in applying strategic plans which improve business efficiencies and make positive impacts on an organization’s bottom line in the areas of Procurment Management. Ability to design and execute procurment management policies, procedures and processes to monitor accountability, identification, maintenance, location and contracts. Effective in monitoring and controlling expenses within allotted budgets. Collaborates with management teams to define cost savings, compliances and service improvements. Possesses the ability to effectively prioritize and execute tasks within high-pressure environments. Excellent written, presentation, and verbal communication skills with experience communicating complex, technical concepts across all levels; possesses strong leadership and relationship management skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Asset Manager PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC - San Diego, CA April 2015 to March 2019 Fully accountable for the management of 3000+ computers. Employed ERP tools to manage and ensure accuracy for all IT assets within the organization and affiliated companies  • Formulated and implemented processes, procedures and systems for tracking and analyzing software and hardware. Managed acquisition of assets from planning through deployment to track entire life-cycle management for each asset to maintain warranty information, refresh date, and end of life data information, achieved through verifying, entering, and adjusting equipment IT asset management data utilizing a variety of established forms, schedules, and reports. Achieved 99% compliance in 6 months.  • Authored written plans, policies and procedures to clearly document processes to support the asset management lifecycle. Developed and enforced a concise E-Waste Policy and Procedure process which ensured compliance with state and federal regulatory agencies; received $4500 on last recycle project which was a 200% increase from previous recycle projects.  • Researched business requirements gathering and analyzed findings; based on analysis prepared reports for senior management regarding the daily operations of Asset Management.  • Streamlined and rolled-out an IT Asset Procurement System Manual for Petco which consolidated multiple departments into one centralized ordering process resulting in significant savings and a reduction of waste by 50% of unauthorized purchases and loss of property while affording the sound, systematic, and efficient approach in asset management.  • Served as an integral member on the Telephone Expense Management team which monitored the Company's Telephone Line expenditures. Assisted in research and verification of phone accounts; and reduced spending by 30% by eliminating duplicate and outdated accounts.  • Provided leadership and support to IT asset associates regarding daily administration and operations of the Department IT Asset Manager LPL FINANCIAL August 2012 to March 2015 Built and rolled-out IT Asset Management tool set to manage enterprise assets for 2000+ records in less than 12-months. Implemented and administered Enterprise Asset Management Systems: ALM, Ops Track Asset Tracker, HP Asset Manager and Manage Engine Asset Explorer achieving 99% compliance.  • Based on stellar performance was given control of PC purchasing and allocation of a set budget.  • Improved efficiencies by standardizing workflow and processes across all sites.Worked effectively with cross-functional teams to manage the IT Hardware Asset Portfolio with respect to cost, control, compliance and business performance objectives.  • Developed the management of lifecycle to include: coordinating with Procurement Department in the acquisition of hardware and vendors for disposal while maintaining tracking inventory for assets.  • Developed processes for preparation of secure disposal of assets using approved vendors who provided appropriate "Certification of Destruction". Disposed of thousands of dollars in recyclable materials and received 25% of their value in return.  • Administered the Asset Management Database; configured asset tracking system to add enhancements to baseline database, improving usability and quality of the system; updated records upon Add, Move, or Change of an asset throughout the lifecycle; identified any discrepancies and reconciled them accordingly.  • Secured assets and maintained proper chain of custody. Maintained stock and storage rooms, data center racks and equipment.  • Developed and maintained cohesive relationships with vendors; reviewed vendors' reports and reconciled to assets; investigated and resolved any discrepancies in receiving goods.  • Physically inspected, tagged with barcode, scanned and validated system tracking information on chassis.  • Maintained barcode tagging inventory and relationship to asset database; maintained barcode scanner devices, configured, updated, and secured.  • Forecasted hardware requisitions on a bimonthly basis; ordered Enterprise desktop equipment. Managed the routing and assignment of equipment in the ticketing system. Systems Administrator LPL FINANCIAL January 2008 to August 2012 Developed full documentation of production services servers and data center hardware, affording easy access to authorized employees requiring this critical information. Achieved 100% compliance.  • Administered the Microsoft Server platform and its components, including Windows Server 2003/2008/2008 R2 and legacy MS systems; installed, configured, and administered enterprise hardware, including IBM & HP rack mount and blade servers. Administered VMware systems.  • Provided technical expertise in a 24x7 high-availability, SOX compliant, Microsoft Windows environment.  • Core duties included working with users, troubleshooting and solving issues, while ensuring all systems were maintained, up to date, and stable; managed deployment of all patches, critical updates and service packs.  • Conducted monthly and annual IT audits; maintained through knowledge of the auditing process, including various techniques relative to auditing, as well as deficits and compliance issues.  • Queue Manager of incident ticketing system while maintaining SLA timelines Administer for the Manage Engine Asset Explorer, asset tracking system. Achieved approximately 2,600 completed tickets annually.  • Physically identified, labeled, and asset tagged 500+ systems in preparation for future asset tracking system Properly documented all server, network, and storage assets. This brought order and simplified tracking of hardware. Education Technical Degree in Computer Networking Computer Education Institute - San Diego, CA January 2001 to December 2002 Computer Information Systems Laramie County Community College - Cheyenne, WY Skills Asset Management, Negotiation, Excel (8 years), Microsoft Office Suite (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/eileen-cook Certifications/Licenses MCSE December 2002 to Present Microsoft Computer Systems Engineer A+ Certified December 2002 to Present Hardware & Software CNA_Certified Novell Administrator December 2002 to Present Certified Novell Administrator Hubble Certified December 2002 to Present Hubble cable certification ITIL v3 August 2018 to Present ITIL V3 C.H.A.M.P. - Certified Hardware Asset Management Professioanl August 2016 to Present