Professor Computer Sciences and Information Systems Professor Computer Sciences and Information <span class="hl">Systems</span> Professor Computer Sciences and Information Systems - Kaplan University Springfield, VA Ambitious SME with over 22 years of technical experience and a passion for working with the latest technologies. My desire is to make an impact in organization that I work for.    Current Clearance Status  Inactive Top Secret Work Experience Professor Computer Sciences and Information Systems Kaplan University February 2011 to Present Teaching both Degree seeking and Certificate seeking students at Kaplan University. Instructing the student in in all tracks of CompTIA and the Microsoft Desktop Support/MCITP course work. Demonstrating Security+ and CEH skills needed to secure as well as hack computer networks. Linux+ instruction through the use of both Red Hat and SUSE Linux. Training in the installation and the administration of MS Server 2003, 2008 and MS Exchange.  •Enterprise systems design and architecture  •Windows Server 2008 R2 Technology Adoption Partner  •Windows Server 2008 Standard, Enterprise and Datacenter  •Windows 2003 R2 Standard and Enterprise Server  •Enterprise level Active Directory design, implementation and support (2,500 - 12,200+ organizations)  •Microsoft Exchange Server 2003/2007/2010 migration, implementation and support  •Microsoft Exchange 5.5, 2000 and 2003 migrations (2,500 - 12,200+ organizations), Multi-server environments    VanMagnus Systems  Independent Contractor doing Remote MAC/PC Support Current: Part Time  PC/MAC Support Technician  Supporting about 250 MACs and PCs running MAC OS X Leopard 10.6, 10.5x, Tiger 10.4x and Windows XP. Also supporting 7 systems with Red Hat WS5 used by Maya and Brainstorm  Configuring Decklink Blackmagic and Kona I/O Cards for Live output.  Setting up and maintaining OS X 10.5 servers for XSAN and Open Directory with workstations running Portable Home Directories. Setting up RAID 0,1,5 on the MAC Pros  Extensive knowledge of Apple Remote Desktop 3.2, including managing all the macs remotely, rolling out packages, doing software updates etc.  Maintaining and administering Red Hat Linux WS-4 for use with 3D designing using Maya and Flint  Hardware and software troubleshoot for both PCs and MACs, desktop and laptops on both environment  Configuring Avid and ORAD Systems for broadcast. Avid Thunder, Deko, Nitris, media manager, etc.  Installing and configuring Windows, Linux and Mac servers  Setting and maintaining XSAN environment.  Email support on Ontourage and mail on OS X and outlook on PC with exchange server support  Extensive knowledge of OS X operating system, including Adobe products and other  OS X applications Linux Engineer VanMagnus Systems November 2008 to June 2010 Deployment Team - Financial Services 11/2008 to 06/2010  Key member of project team charged with installing PC's in local office of major national Financial Services firm as subcontractor through HP to Morgan Stanley. Detailed process included:  Linux Engineer  • Installed servers and different peripheral devices.  • Assisted in designing of servers.  • Assisted senior engineer in high performance of SAN.  • Improved systems for better functioning.  • Physical installation, cable management and network / system testing.  • Asset management, data migration, application loading and CRM database access.  • AD administration for the purpose of the installation of the new Servers, Workstations and Peripherals.  • Supported end users to assure profile update and access to applications as part of quality control and to secure approval.  • Virtualization  • System Administration level of the following: VMWare ESX/ESXi, VMWare Server, Amazon EC2 & S3  • Remote and desktop support for OS X..    VanMagnus Systems (Hewlett Packard Contract)  Systems Analyst  Responsible for the deployment of Hewlett Packard PCs for Morgan Stanley client.  Remove and replace existing PCs and analyzed any connectivity and installations issues.  Perform backup utilities, install printer devices, and transfer existing data.  Ensure the FACT/ACT applications functioned correctly and supervised proper storage/disposal replacement of PCs when needed.  Served as helpdesk support and desktop support to end users.  Perform data migration using network cables and migration software. Systems Analyst and MS SQL 2005 Trainer VanMagnus Systems March 2008 to November 2009 3/2008 - 11/2009  Installed Win Snap and environments within the Districts Public Schools. Also provided the training and support needed for each school to "Go Live" and begin to show Real Time Transactions for the accounting of student meals and the money that was taken in. Provided Win Snap and MS SQL 2005 Server training for the Café' Managers on a continuous basis during the week. Also, troubleshot issues of connectivity and Data Base connectivity issues. Tickets generated via Heat Magic for daily tracking of issue resolution. Documented on a daily basis all problems and there resolutions to the School Link Prime for the contract. Server 2003 and 2008 installation and configuration. PC deployment throughout all of the District's Schools. Installation and support for the MAC systems running OS X. Support for media labs for the school system all using OS X and MAC OS versions. Senior Systems Analyst V VanMagnus Systems November 2006 to May 2008 National Team Lead for the Virtualization Project of U.S. Telecom Server Farm. Investigate to determine the best way to Implement a 50% Virtualization of all Corporate and Government Systems and SAN Storage along with replication. To reduce cost and increase the companies Up Time and Fail Over Capacity of the Companies Server Farm. Using VMware, Virtuozzo and Appistry to replace out dated Servers with VM machines running in a Multi-Core configuration. For both Win-Tel and Unix/Solaris Systems. 60% of the position consisted of Tele-commuting in. Solaris 10 was used utilizing virtualization of the various Solaris 10 servers. MS SQL 2005 conversions and implementations across the Enterprise, setting up table spaces and DB searches along with data-mining. They were then placed in containers for ease of administration and portability. All zones implemented were the "Whole Route Zone," please note due to the size of this organization this was needed. All work dispensed via Remedy. Designed and implemented server architecture for improved operational resiliency and performance. Achieved 60% reduction of data center costs through the introduction of the following initiatives, carried out on production environment:  • Install, configure, and support 500+ IBM AIX (pSeries), Red Hat (RH9 and RHEL3-5), Fedora, and SuSE systems in several enterprise environments providing mission critical Telecom Application support.  • Act as Lead Linux Engineer, handling majority of Linux builds, troubleshooting, and applications.  • Installed and maintain RHEL and SuSE provisioning servers for efficient builds per best practices.    • Identified and virtualized servers onto VMWare ESX 3, ESX 4i, VMWare Server and Xen virtual environments, coupled with Red Hat Cluster Suite and DRBD for high availability.  • Migration of services to Amazon EC2 and S3 services including creation of Amazon Machine Images.  • Defined, documented and implemented hardened, standardized operating system images based on Red Hat Linux Enterprise 4, Centos 5 and FreeBSD 7. Migrated legacy operating systems (FreeBSD 4/5/6, Red Hat Linux 6/7, Centos 3/4, SuSE 9, Solaris 2.6) onto customized images.  • Consolidated/upgraded legacy hardware (HP Net Server LP1000R/LP2000R, Super Micro Super Server 5012B, Sun E250/E450) to Dell 2950, 2850, 1950, 1800 and 860 Servers. Creating the slices needed to install each zone. Cisco PIX, CheckPoint, IPS and IDS Analyst for internal and external client of the telecom.  • Cisco VPN implementation for this client. The Cisco ASA series.  • Office 2007 installation and configuration on the client PC's for this organization. Applications Systems Analysis and Programming Staff Specialist VanMagnus Systems, Department of Labor - Washington, DC September 2006 to October 2006 Install Anywhere used for Unix, Solaris and XP installations of GOTS and COTS and custom S/W installations.  • Systems Analyst in the creation of custom software for the Government client.  • Installed and Virtualized Solaris 10 in a Win/Tel environment, Only one small zone was implemented since most of the UNIX servers were NCR or AT&T 3B2's.  • Solaris: command sets, scripts, drive structure (slicing, mounting), network structure (i.e., due to age of client NCR systems, ports on switches may require re-configuration).  • Provide solutions to the customers' needs defined by the trouble reporting tool REMEDY, each request is handled with speed and precision to remove the customers interruption to their normal daily work flow.  • Network Analyst for the design and implementation of SAN for that segment of the DOLs Network.  • Work generated via Remedy.  • Technical support for AT&T UNIX and NCR hardware running the client-specific software.  • Technical support for PC(s) and printers running the client desktop software.  • Technical support for Solaris research projects - building and configuring servers.  • Diagnosing hardware failure on the NCR(s), and coordinating the actual repair.  • Provided creative means of restoring systems without proper backups.  • Configure Solaris 9 and 10 servers - including "zones", SSL secure web-servers, secure tunnel connectivity and order SSL certificates  • Devised or modified procedures to solve complex problems considering computer equipment capacity and limitations, operation time and form of desired results.  • Prepares detailed specifications from which programs will be written.  • Responsible for program design, coding, testing, debugging and documentation.  • Remote and desktop configuration of MS Office. Systems Administrator VanMagnus Systems - Elkridge, MD April 2005 to October 2005 PKI Administrator  • Administrator of E-Server Clusters in the Scientific clusters configuration. Running Linux.  • Solaris 8 Engineering Lead.  • Use of the STK 9940/9980 Storage devices and Tape Library Solutions in an Enterprise Environment.  • Implemented the setup and installation of MOM for central management of all Network functions. Including SQL, Login and E-mail.  • Cisco PIX Admin in an IDS implementation.  • ADP payroll processing experience.  • Active Directory setup, maintenance and troubleshooting.  • SAN and Storage Administrator.  • Documented Solutions to problems for TIPS database  • Charged with resolving customer problems in timely fashion.  • Provided support for Customers and Technicians for the quick resolution of Win/NT, 2000, 2003 and XP issues Enterprise Systems Administrator VanMagnus Systems April 2004 to April 2005 Managed the following servers: SCOUnix, UNIX, Windows NT 4.0, XP, 2003, Windows 98/95, Exchange 5.5/2003, and Back Office suite, NetWare 4.11/5.0, Lotus Notes, RS6000 and Linux maintaining daily activities for 3,500 users  • Programmed management-reporting systems for purchasing department  • Both Network and SAN Administrator on many contracts.  • Provided training to 278 field system users  • Created an invoice-reconciliation program that resulted in capturing an average of $5,000 per month in vendor overcharges  • Beta tested and implemented the installation of MOM part of MS DSI strategy.  • Tickets generated via Remedy.  • Support of MAC OS X and the TIGER OS. Systems Administrator/Help Desk VanMagnus Systems - Towson, MD March 2003 to April 2004 Created users, unlocked Accounts, reset PSWD when needed.  • Used HEAT to track and report problems of user  • Provided timely resolutions of user issues  • Provided helpdesk and field technician duties  • SAN Administrator.  • Assisted in the ADP Payroll processing for the auto dealership.  • PC deployments and upgrades for the various locations.  • Creations of packages to be installed via MS Server 2003 using the Group Policies to install software remotely.  • Created Mail Box's for Exchange user  • Written 3 central helpdesk manuals (Process Control Manual)  • Performed weekly and monthly statistical analysis/metrics of helpdesk activities.  • Hands on support for MAC users in a 2003 Windows environment. Lead CISCO Systems Technician VanMagnus Systems - Hunt Valley, MD September 2001 to March 2003 Using a Windows 2k Clustering Solution in a High-Availability configuration.  • Designed, installed and managed small / medium scale networks  • Provided troubleshooting network problems  • Served as technical lead in the creation of Dot-Net based software, including software architecture, design, coding and team coaching  • Network Analyst in charge of the SAN Implementation with WORLDCOM Network.  • Prototyped, designed and developed software building custom applications for major clients using Visual Basic 6.0, VB.Net, Crystal Reports and SQL Server 7.0  • Administered ongoing PHP/MySQL development projects, primarily including content management applications  • Support of the new MAC running OS X.  • Point Of Contact for all Apple support for the organization.  • Tickets created via Heat Magic.  • Developed a site including database administration using SQL Server, programming in ASP and Flash, and interface design Solaris Administrator Johns Hopkins EHP - Glen Burnie, MD November 1999 to September 2001 Administrator of IBM E-Server Linux clusters in the Load-balanced configuration.  • Lead responsibility for all UNIX server administration, back-up NT server administration  • Maintained integrity and security of the Integrated Library System and related systems  • Administered all UNIX systems; 10 Solaris, 3 Linux  • Maintained Ex Libris Aleph ILS (Integrated Library System) on Solaris and Oracle platforms, Sun Hardware: A1000, E450, E4500, L9, L25, S20, 280R, v440, v880, T3, U60.  • Developed Informix SQL, and created Informix tables and indexes  • Provided systems and programming support to digital library initiatives; MySQL, Mason, Perl, and evaluated and recommended other open sources as needed  • Provide systems security on Solaris and Windows; system patches, SSH, SSL, ipfilter, TCP Wrappers. Administer Veritas Volume Manager 3.2 and Net Backup 4.5 Data Center.  • Provided assistance in NT/Win2K server setup and management  • Managed 15 programmers. Pix setup and DMZ creation along with the setting up of NAT. Messaging Engineer onsite at Info Shark - Reston, VA September 1999 to November 1999 Installed and configured MS Exchange Server for the company  • Provided training to Network Administrators in the use of the Exchange Server  • Provided training to staff members in the use of the Exchange client software  • Installed an Oracle 8.X Server for this client's sales staff  • Created the Table Space, Records, Tables and Formulas for this company Education Doctorate Additional Information Skill Sets / Positions Held  • Systems Analyst  • Network Engineer  • Desktop Engineer  • Technical Trainer  • Security Engineer  • CompTIA SME    • Linux Engineer  • Unix Engineer  • Firewall Engineer  • Security SME  • Microsoft SME    Operating Systems  Systems Administration / Platforms  • Website configuration & administration: general LAMP stack, Perl/Python/PHP/Java, Apache, Linux, MySQL/Postgresql/Oracle. 40+ million users.  • Troubleshooting, networking, security, services, reporting, monitoring, database-backed management, capacity planning, strategic planning, documentation.  • GNU/Linux: Debian, Red Hat / RHEL, CentOS, Ubuntu, Novell / SuSE / SLES, , others.  • UNIX: OS X, Sun/Solaris, HPUX, SVR4, BSD. FreeBSD, OpenBSD, Cygwin.  • Storage: LVM, NFS, SAN, NAS, RAID (0, 1, 5, 10), SCSI, SATA, ext2, ext3, reiserfs, backups.  • Monitoring: Nagios, Cacti, Ganglia, SNMP, IPMI.  • Virtualization: VMWare Workstation, VMWare GSX Server, Xen, User-mode Linux, qemu, Parllels.  • Datacenter: racking, light cabling, lights-out/ILOM. Hardware: Dell, HP, Sun, IBM, Genstore, Rackable, others.  • Enterprise tools: Platform LSF, Cacti, SAS.  • Legacy: VAX/VMS & AXP OpenVMS, MVS TSO/ISPF, Microsoft Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows 2000 Server, Windows XP.    Hardware:  IBM PC compatibles (Various vendors, eg: Dell, IBM), Alpha (UP 2000, DP 2000), Apple Macintosh, Opteron, Itanium. Software and hardware RAIDs (Adaptec, 3Ware, Promise).Storcase disk enclosures. Network switches, routers (3com, Cisco, Dlink, HP, Linksys, Netgear). Modems (3com, USR Robotics, DOCSIS). Tape libraries (DLT). UPS (APC, Tripplite), Network Appliance SAN, KVM over IP, IPMI, iSCSI. Cyclades TS3000 Terminal Server, PIX 515E, Foundry load balancers.    Operating systems:  Linux: Gentoo, RedHat, Suse, Mandrake, Yellow Dog, Knoppix, Debian, Slackware etc.  Unix flavors: FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, BSDi, Mac OS X, SUN Solaris.  Other OS: OS/2, DOS, Windows (NT, 95, 98, 2000, 2003, XP).    Networking and services:  Database replication. Scalability planning. Disaster recovery. Load balancing. Diskless boot. Channel bonding, network teaming. CVS, SAN, NAS. NIS/YP, NNTP, NTP, Telnet. Web servers: Apache Tomcat, IIS. Proxy servers: Squid, Wingate, Winproxy. FTP servers: Proftpd, Wu-ftpd, Sftpd, ftpd, BulletProof ftp, TFTP and so on. DNS: bind or named. Firewall configuration: NAT, Masquerade, connection tracking: iptables, ipchains, ipfw. VPN: Freeswan, IP Sec, pptp. Routing: BGP, OSPF. Mail SMTP: Sendmail, Postfix+sasl, Qmail. POP3/IMAP: qpopper, pop3d, courier. Security: Snort, ettercap, Nessus, John The Ripper, PGP, GPG, nmap, superscan, arpwatch, LIDS, SSH, SSL, TLS, TCP Wrappers, Ethereal, dsniff, tcpdump, saint, portsentry, XSpider, Retina, chkrootkit, Tripwire, Antivirus software for mail servers, SPAM filtering by means of DNS blacklists, custom rules, SPF, Spamassassin, domain keys. Rootkit and backdoor identification and removal, DOS and DDoS defense. Batch OS installation, automation: JumpStart / Kick Start. DHCP, LDAP, Software VoIP, Automount. SQL: MySQL, Postgres, Oracle. Network data backups: NFS, Samba, nc. Monitoring and alerting: Nagios, Ganglia, MRTG. FAXes: mgetty+sendfax, lpd, smbprint, WinFax. Networking: TCP/IP, SMB, IPX - novell netware, plip, slip, ppp, pppoe.    Languages:  Assembler for x86: nasm, as, masm, tasm. C, C++.  Web development: HTML, XML, CSS, Java, CGI, SSI, Perl, PHP.  Shell scripting: bash, csh, sed, awk, regular expressions.    Hardware:  IBM PC compatibles (Various vendors, eg: Dell, IBM), Alpha (UP 2000, DP 2000), Apple Macintosh, Opteron, Itanium. Software and hardware RAIDs (Adaptec, 3Ware, Promise).Storcase disk enclosures. Network switches, routers (3com, Cisco, Dlink, HP, Linksys, Netgear). Modems (3com, USR Robotics, DOCSIS). Tape libraries (DLT). UPS (APC, Tripplite), Network Appliance SAN, KVM over IP, IPMI, iSCSI. Cyclades TS3000 Terminal Server, PIX 515E, Foundry load balancers.    Systems Analyst VanMagnus Systems, Springfield, VA 11 years