Systems Administrator Loudoun County Parks and Rec <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Loudoun County Parks and Rec Linux SysAdmin Sterling, VA Highly adept Trainer and Administrator with over 5 years’ Linux Sysadmin experience driving organizational IT optimization and effecting viable, ideal solutions to ensure continued solutions operation and delivery. A collaborative leader with exceptional, objectives-driven interpersonal communication skills. Exceptional acuity for expedient technical troubleshooting; identifying, diagnosing, and remediating simple to complex issues via an analytic and innovative approach. Multifaceted technical expertise bolstered by a rapid adaptability to new and emerging technologies, standards, and methods. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Loudoun County Parks and Rec Bluemont, VA 2018 to Present Presently accountability for the administration, implementation, configuration, and ongoing  maintenance (patching, upgrades, etc.) of DNS, NTP, Apache, and a Load Balancer through effective  troubleshooting and the mitigation of any technical issue. Utilize Nagios to monitor virtualized  server states. Drive network/server security through the implementation of a firewall and Ip tables  to enable the secure operation of various key applications and processes. Install, upgrade, and updated packages with YUM and RPM and schedule tasks via Cron jobs and at jobs.  Notable Accomplishments:  § Spearheaded configuration of CentOS 6 and 7 systems in a fully virtual environment.  § Created and administrated organizational Wiki pages and documentation.  § Implemented effective backup solutions to ensure data integrity, including regularly creating  backups with TAR.  § With a team of six people, completed an infrastructure project for a small startup company where we  built and deployed an NFS, NTP, FTP, DNS, AutoFS, Nagios, Samba, LDAP, Database, Webserver, Load  Balancer and a Wiki server. I was personally responsible for the Nagios server and the Wiki server which was hosted on AWS platform. All packages were pushed using Ansible.  PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYMENT EXPERIENCE Preschool Teacher's Aide Loudoun County Parks and Rec - Bluemont, VA 2018 to Present Assist and implement daily teaching plans as assigned and help facilitate a healthy and safe  learning environment for the students. Systems Administrator and Trainer Beijing Bacui Bilingual School 2012 to 2017 Tapped while originally serving as a teacher to own key IT and IT infrastructure initiatives, projects, and operations throughout school. Guided and instructed foreign and Chinese faculty members on the most  effective and streamlined usage and maintenance of workstations and peripheral systems. Served as primary point of contact for foreign teachers' office. Configured and installed SOHO printer network.  Notable Accomplishments:  § Led initiative to transition foreign teachers' workstations from Windows OS' to various Linux distributions in line  with individual special requirements.  § Created and maintained a comprehensive database for teachers' grades and lesson plans via LAMP.  § Championed implementation, troubleshooting, and maintenance of foreign teachers' department. Online English Teacher Carrot Korea 2009 to 2012 Provided English language curriculum (ESOL) to a diverse set of remote Korean students, ranging from minors to adults through VOIP. Drove each student's continuous improvement and eventual proficiency in spoken and written English. Director of Studies English First - Rui'an, CN 2007 to 2009 Engaged in the recruitment and training of new ESOL teachers in addition to holding accountability over all academic aspects of school. Drafted monthly personnel schedules and facilitated faculty  meetings. Created and continuously developed reading and writing course curriculum for early  language learners. Monitored student progress and partner with parents to drive individual students'  advancement. Systems Administrator English First 2006 to 2007 Administrated Ubuntu systems, installed new packages and system / kernel updates. Managed file  permissions and access control for foreign teachers. Created MYSQL data bases for teachers to upload  grades and lesson plans.  Notable Accomplishments:  § Successfully led school-wide transition from Windows to Ubuntu.  § Conducted and implemented regular backups and archiving of digital files for teaching staff, significantly increasing workflow through establishing a more viable and organized means of storing  files for potential later access. Senior Teacher English First 2003 to 2007 English teacher Various Facilities and programs throughout China  § Manager K E Folk Enterprises Education Training Certificate Trinity College 2008 Skills Database, Mysql, Dhcp, Lan/wan, Ldap, Nfs, Optimization, Telnet, Vlan, Vmware, Dns, Lamp stack, Lamp, nginx, Apache, Linux, Acls, Devops, Nagios, Networking Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  OS' & SOFTWARE RHEL/CentOS 6.x and 7.x, Windows 2008/2008R2 and 2012/2012R2 Servers, Mac  HARDWARE OS x86 Platform, PPC & Intel Apple Hardware, Dell Server PowerEdge 200's, 300's and  400's, C6100, NetAPP SAN  S ERVERS, HTTP/HTTPS, DNS, DHCP, LDAP/OpenLDAP /Free-IPA, FTP, NFS/AutoFS, NTP,  Apache/Nginx, Nagios, Samba, Mail Servers (Postfix and Dovecot), PXE,  Mirror/REPO, LAMP Stack, Ansible, Wiki, HAProxy  NETWORK AND Wireshark, ping, tcpdump, telnet, netstat, netcat, nmap iptables,  TROUBLESHOOTING  tcpwrappers and SElinux, Iptables, ACLs, File permissions, SSH, SSL,  LAN/WAN and VLAN  VIRTUALIZATION  VMware ESXi 5.x and 6.x, Linux KVM's, Parallels Desktop  DATABASES  MySQL, MariaDB, PHPMyAdmin  SCRIPTING Bash and some Python  DEVOPS TOOLS Ansible, Git, iTop, Jira and Jenkins  CORE COMPETENCIES    § Troubleshooting * Solutions Implementation * Project Management  § Reporting & Documentation * User Training & Support * Networking Infrastructure  § Database Management * IT Systems Optimization * Process Improvement