Human Resources Specialist, Strategic Data Systems Human Resources Specialist, Strategic Data <span class="hl">Systems</span> San Diego, CA Work Experience Human Resources Specialist, Strategic Data Systems March 2019 to Present • Serve as first point of contact for all HR matters to 12 U.S. DOD organizations involving 400+ employees in 23 states.  • Respond to questions, requests, and concerns from employees and management regarding company and Human Resources programs, policies and guidelines.  • Manage employee onboarding, create and send offer letters, ensure completion of all pre-employment requirements.  • Coordinate employee off-boarding, including exit paperwork, system deactivation, final paycheck, equipment collection, etc.  • Administer and manage employee benefits, including broker/ vendor relationships, enrollments, disability claims, FMLA, general employee inquiries and invoice processing.  • Process all garnishment withholdings, and submit 401k contributions/loans.  • Oversee all payroll functions, ensuring compliance and accurate processing.  • Submit and verify monthly invoices and billing statements and submit weekly Cross Application Time Web sheet (CATW) data reports.  • Complete all requests for verifications of employment (VOE) for current and past employees.  • Update Employee Handbook on an annual basis to maintain compliance with federal, state and local employment laws, including completion of mandatory reporting.  • Responsible for training and overseeing all duties performed by the Human Resources Administrator. Human Resources Administrator, Strategic Data Systems May 2017 to March 2019 • Responded to questions, requests, and concerns from employees and management regarding company and Human Resources programs, policies and guidelines.  • Tracked new hires through onboarding process.  • Scheduled drug screenings, initiated background investigations, completed I-9 validations and E-Verify employment eligibility checks.  • Entered all payroll items, inquiries and adjustments for all employees.  • Recorded and tracked pay rate changes, paid time off/paid sick leave accruals, 401k enrollments, deductions/earnings.  • Ensured accuracy of timesheets for all employees. Recorded all timesheets into QuickBooks on a weekly basis.  • Performed regular audits of policies and HR files to ensure all were updated and compliant.  • Provided information to National Background Investigations Bureau (NBIB) investigators.  • Ensured compliance with the Privacy Act of 1974 involving release documents Administrative Assistant Wise Alliance Legal LLC August 2016 to May 2017 • Represented Wise Alliance at business events involving corporate healthcare attorneys from all over the U.S.  • Met with current/potential clients and attorneys to market upcoming events.  • Provided administrative and marketing support in creating travel plans, business itineraries and event planning. Marketing / Promotions Assistant, Raptors Baseball Team June 2015 to August 2016 • Managed the marketing for 5 MILB sponsors.  • Completed required affidavits to account for each time a sponsor advertised in order to receive payments.  • Collaborated with a marketing team to maintain each sponsor's specific budget and schedule.  • Responsible for organizing a fundraiser that generated $2,500.  • Managed promotional campaigns using social media. Education B.S. in Interpersonal Communication / Psychology Weber State University 2016 resources and accounting Weber State Women's Tennis Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/lauren-schulte-5b379a75