Contract - PC Technician Contract - PC Technician IT Project & Administration Support Troy, NY To secure a position in a company that will utilize my skills and education to provide me with an opportunity for advancement. Drawing from experience in the field of Information Technology and CSR to assist me in giving the highest level of performance I can provide. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Contract - PC Technician TEKsystems - Lancaster, PA April 2018 to August 2018 Imaging thin clients with HP Device Manager for Windows 7 & 10  Imaging PC's via PXE boot from the server  Daily installations of thin clients, Epic Monitor stations and HP printers on PC's  On hand for "Go-Live" assistance for questions, troubleshooting and escalating issues.  Swapping hardrives, graphics cards, pc ram and redeployment of freshly imaged PC's.  Maintained logistic work stations (LWS) for record keeping and Updating Active Directory.  Assisting the OneView TV/Tablet/NUC PC team with installing, imaging and refreshing their devices & televisions. Associate Systems Administrator Wellspan Health - TEKsystems - York, PA July 2017 to December 2017 CONTRACT  Professional deployment of pc equipment for EPIC - EMR systems  PC imaging utilizing Microsoft Deployment Toolkit  Proper configuration of HP, Zebra and Ricoh printers, Datalogic and Fujitsu scanners, and Nuance Dragon Microphones including Imprivata access badges.  Installation of Business Continuance Access (BCA) EPIC downtime devices.  Cross connecting in network closets coupled with verifying and wiring switches.  Remote installations utilizing Altiris software network deployment program and Bomgar remote desktop support including Remedy Force Console for ticket management solutions.  Travel to various Wellspan hospital, outpatient and satellite locations within the Project One scope. PC Technician/Help Desk MVP Healthcare - Schenectady, NY October 2016 to December 2016 JANUARY 2017 - MARCH 2017  Hardware refresh contract requiring the imaging of new laptops and PC's with Symantec Ghost and Sophos encrypting security.  Professional installation of pertinent software, new equipment for end users and efficient data transfers in a secure office environment.  Providing Dameware remote support coupled with Easy Vista software ticketing system.  Responsible for multiple client deployments daily in a fast paced environment including resolving software, hardware and VPN complications.  Secure tracking of all received equipment with proper asset tags, serial numbers, user credentials and permissions logged into Easy Vista, Active Directory and Hyena software. IT Field Service Technician | nfratructure Pinnacle - Clifton Park, NY August 2016 to October 2016 Assisted with the conversion contract for First Niagara to KeyBank, utilizing a virtual image on the KeyBank network.  Responsible for professional installations of all PC's, switches, printers, scanners and VeriFones on site.  Present for UAT testing of PC's with bank employees ensuring that all installations were done properly.  Professional environment in which we, as a team, represented nfrastructure's core values of supporting integrated technology for its clients.  Project required travel out of state while transporting all necessary equipment for various sites. Inbound CSR Representative/Data Entry Specialist Health Help - Humana - East Greenbush, NY June 2016 to August 2016 Inbound call center specializing in prior authorizations for radiation and CT scans.  HIPAA verifications in a secure environment exceeding 60 calls per day.  Fast paced, professional office where CSR attention to detail is essential.  Data entry efficiency on all calls with strict scripting to follow.  Pleasant demeanor expected while conversing with doctors, nurses and patients.  Procedure assessment questions to minimize unnecessary radiation exposure to patients, which is Health Help's primary goal. Inbound Sales Specialist Time Warner Cable - Albany, NY May 2015 to April 2016 Customer support in a professional environment for an inbound call center.  As a Mover, I was responsible for assisting customers with a transfer of their services to new addresses and when applicable, starting them with new accounts.  Fast paced attention to detail in data entry while handling 30 or more calls a day.  Troubleshooting technical issues and proper transfers of any non-moving calls appropriately.  I excelled at up selling service packages in a team oriented office based on commissions. Education Associates Degree in MultiMedia ITT Technical Institute - Albany, NY March 2007 to March 2009 Skills Active directory. (2 years), Adobe premiere (3 years), After effects (3 years), animation (2 years), Data entry (5 years), Desktop Support, Pc Support, Help Desk, Hardware, Deployment Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/darryl-shorkey-b9909559 Additional Information SKILLS    • Experience with Acer, Dell, Fujitsu, HP, Lenovo, Nuance, Sony and Toshiba equipment.  • Cross Connects and Switch wiring.  • Active Directory  • Altiris  • Bomgar  • Dameware  • Easy Vista  • Hyena  • Remedy Force  • Skype for business  • Microsoft Office Suite 2010+  • Windows 7, 10.  • Photoshop CS3-CS5  • Adobe Premiere/After Effects CS3-CS5  • Unity 3D Game Development.  • Blender Animation    • 5 Years of data entry experience  • 3 years of Inbound call center experience  • 30+ years of Retail & CSR experience  • 4 years of IT Field & Desktop Support experience  • I am a team player who is detail oriented  • I excel at fast paced, difficult jobs.  • Professionalism is a trait deeply ingrained within me  • I always take initiative with tasks.  • I endeavor to learn new skills and absorb them quickly, and have been an author for many years with the passion to be published soon.