Implementation Specialist II Implementation Specialist II Implementation Specialist II - ADP Frisco, TX New electrical engineer graduate with a strong knowledge of Control & Power. Seeking Entry level Electrical Engineer position with a progressive  organization to bring exceptional ability to handle multiple projects and tasks with high professionalism while improving my technical and team  work skills. Work Experience Implementation Specialist II ADP - Frisco, TX January 2016 to Present • Designed and developed software solutions including mobile applications to service small and large business needs.  • Maintaining current applications and working on adding new features and better UI using HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap 3 and JavaScript.  • Apply industry and product knowledge to optimize system configurations and upgrades.  • Maintained and expanded knowledge and proficiency on ADP products/services.  • Worked on multiple projects to enhance the product implementation methods by leading teams/task-forces and organizing round tables. Systems Administrator My IT Provider - Caldwell, NJ March 2015 to January 2016 • Troubleshooting TCP/IP, DNS, and DHCP related issues.  • Interact with all levels of management to develop solutions.  • Network Management through implementing network monitoring products to identify network performance issues.  Ex: Products implemented include GFI spam filters, and utilities for monitoring network PCs and Servers.  • Developed and maintained web applications and databases using ASP.Net and MySQL server.  • Contributed in migrating systems that were on Web Forms Framework into MVC. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ May 2019 Certifications/Licenses Six Sigma Green Belt Certified (SSGBC) Additional Information AREA OF EXPERTISE / SKILLS    • Electrical Circuits • Digital Systems • Keil uVision  • Modern Communication Systems Analysis • Simulink  • Embedded Microcontrollers • Power Electronics, • AutoCAD  • Engineering Design Switching Devices & • NI-Multisim/PSpice  • Rockwell PLC & Arduino Converters & Protection • SolidWorks  Programming Schemes • MATLAB  • (RISC, CISC, 8051) Architecture • Budgeting & • LabVIEW  • Algorithm & Data Structure Engineering Economics  • Project Management • C/C++