Systems Administrator Specialist <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Specialist Systems Administrator Specialist Hampton, SC Multi-talented IT Professional consistently rewarded for success in planning and operational  improvements. Experience in policy development and staff management procedures positively  impacting overall morale and productivity. Work Experience Systems Administrator Specialist Allendale County Schools September 2017 to Present Works closely with the Mobile Device Managers & Network Administrator while providing systems support for teachers, staff & Allendale County Schools students.  • Skillful & knowledgeable in Microsoft Office Suites, Xerox  Printers/Copiers, HP Printers, PowerSchool, Bus Video & Camera  Systems, Apple Equipment, ScholarChip (ID Machine System),  Door & ID Badge Programming, RaptorTech (Visitor Logging  System).  • Spearheaded inventory control measures to replenish and maintain IT equipment, supplies, tools and replacement parts.  • Assisted in program development to integrate and update  software products and improve system compatibility for students.  • Participated in deployment of hardware and software across the district.  • Maintain and troubleshoot devices, hardware & software on a daily basis.  • Follow maintenance protocols to ensure systems are secure and ready for users.  • Document all support calls in SchoolDude (IT Ticketing System)  • Prepares reference data and information for technology team in Microsoft OneNote. MIS Coordinator Bamberg Job Corps Center June 2015 to August 2017 System Administrator for the Center and 3 other outreach locations providing immediate end user support and assistance.  Bamberg Job Corps Center • Designed, developed and implemented new systems that  simplified center operations.  • Installed, upgraded & troubleshooted all workstations & mobile  devices.  • Provided phone/voice systems assistance.  • Displayed management effectiveness while demonstration  excellent decision making and problem-solving skills.  • Downloaded and mapped data for use by diverse team  members.  • Worked with software development team on reported errors and bugs on newly released software and assisted in deployment of  release fixes.  • Responded to support requests from end users and patiently  walked individuals through basic troubleshooting tasks.  • Properly installed CISCO Switches center wide for faculty, staff & student usage.  • Maintain student/teacher confidence and protect operations  and devices by keeping information confidential. PC Repair Technician Orangeburg-Calhoun Technical College August 2014 to May 2015 Assisted faculty, staff and individuals of the surrounding areas with PC repair needs.  • Perform basic computer troubleshooting to upgrade and College maintain lab computers and servers.  • Worked with software development team on reported errors and bugs on newly released software and assisted in deployment of  release fixes.  • Developed and tested new product offerings prior to release to assist development team in bug identification.  • Demonstrated professionalism and courtesy with customers while working to resolve complaints, problems or respond to questions.  • Responded to support requests from end users and patiently  walked individuals through basic troubleshooting tasks.  • Upgraded software and installed new versions to eliminate  security problems and protect data. Education Associate of Science in Information Technology Orangeburg Calhoun Technical College - Orangeburg, SC 2015 Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Technology Management Strayer University - Charleston, SC Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xrswf54baqryz4hi Technical Support — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pedhnfbc8mjbzcty Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.