Systems and Network Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> and Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems and Network Administrator - Russ College of Engineering Athens, OH Experienced Systems and Network Administrator skilled at overseeing complex company networks with a focus on efficiency and performance optimization. Responsible for system administration, network operations. Played key role in management of IT department at Russ College of Engineering, Ohio University. Work Experience Systems and Network Administrator Russ College August 2016 to Present of Engineering, Ohio University  • Installed and Maintained desktops, laptops and workstations for 3000 students and 200 faculty members.  • Installed new/rebuild existing workstations and configured hardware, printers, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards.  • Utilized Group Policy Objects (GPOs) to manage AD Organizational Units (OUs), objects, groups, users and computers.  • Deployed new and updated existing Active Directory GPO configurations.  • Applied patches & upgrades to Windows & Linux OS, upgraded administrative tools & utilities as per requirements.  • Assisted in complex engineering and designing functions on LAN and WAN systems.  • Technical responsibilities includes administration, maintenance, configuration, troubleshoot, update, backups and support for various mission critical technologies within LAN/WAN infrastructure utilizing Cisco SG300-28P, Dell PowerEdge R210II, Dell PowerEdge R310, Dell PowerVault NX300, Cat6 cabling, Fiber cabling.  • Escalation support activities included 2nd/3rd level support for various LAN/WAN issues for edge VoIP, and customer premise equipment across the multiple sites to investigate, troubleshoot, reconfigure and resolve issue in a timely manner, and as needed technical support and training of new technical staff and students.  • Performed Oracle Database Administration and also worked on SQL tuning in an Oracle Environment.  • Expert level knowledge of complex SQL using Teradata functions, macros and stored procedures.  • Experience in integration of various data sources definitions like SQL Server, Oracle, Teradata SQL Assistant, MYSQL, and XML.  • Served as DBA in the completion of 80+ medium scale implementations, managing projects from department wise requirements analysis to solutions delivery and support.  • Installed SQL Server 2005 for new servers as well as in-place upgrades to 2005 on 2000 servers.  • Managed multiple forest, parent / child domain Active Directory, DNS and DHCP configurations.  • Deployed SAN and NAS devices in various departments as per the requirements.  • Utilized LANDesk for incident reporting and tracking, software deployment and remote client workstation access.  • Configured, troubleshoot, and upgraded Checkpoint Firewalls for Manage clients, which included network and/or resource access, software, or hardware problems.  • Helped in tuning performance and ensured high availability of infrastructure.  • Collaborated with software developers to isolate software bugs and develop patches or fixes.  • Maintained and Administered licenses, Shared Drives and Virtual Desktop environment for Russ College of Engineering using VMware Horizon.  • Used routing table and firewall logs to troubleshot, TCP dump to track firewall real-time data.    • Updating maintain, & securing ASA Cisco Firewall and Juniper SRX Firewalls.    • Built and Deployed workstations through System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM).    • Performed Network monitoring and troubleshooting.    • Performed hardware and software troubleshooting on workstations.    • Documented procedures, issues and resolutions in SharePoint. Lab Administrator & IT Coordinator Sri Indu College August 2013 to May 2015 • Maintained and administered computer networks, servers, printers, computer hardware and software involving Windows, Linux and Mac Operating Systems.  • Installed and configured workstations for 300 under-graduate students and 100 faculty/staff members.  • Managed and implemented group policies using Active Directory.  • Configured, installed and maintained hardware/software equipment including routers, switches and other network appliances.  • Provided continuous troubleshooting of workstations using Linux & Windows OS and network issues.  • Created online documentation on internal wiki for day-to-day solutions and guides. Education Master of Science in Information and Telecommunication Systems Ohio University Skills Technical Support, Windows, Active Directory, Networking, Vmware, Windows 7, security, Microsoft Office, Customer Service Awards WOW Graduate Assistant 2017-08 Awarded with WOW GRADUATE ASSISTANT for my excellence and dedication towards work at Russ College of Engineering. Certifications/Licenses Palo Alto ACE May 2019 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    * Windows, Linux, OS X  * C, Python, Perl, Shell Scripting  * Oracle, SQL  * Active Directory, SCCM, Group Policy Management  * Windows Server Operating Systems  * Citrix, SharePoint 2013  * Troubleshooting  * Office 365  * Routers, Switches, Firewalls  * Troubleshooting  * Hadoop MapReduce, HDFS, Hive, Pig  * DHCP, DNS, SSL, HTTP, RDP, VPN, SSH, MPLS  * OSI, TCP/IP Suite, IPsec, IIS, Load Balancing, Routing Protocols  * Cisco IOS, VoIP  * BGP, OSPF, MPLS  * LAN, WAN, VLAN, NAT, ICE  * Cisco, Palo Alto  * Network Configuration  * Cisco Switches, Routers & Firewalls  * VMware, vSphere.  * Cisco Packet Tracer, GNS3