System Analyst/ODBA <span class="hl">System</span> Analyst/ODBA System Analyst/ODBA Lakeland, FL Work Experience System Analyst/ODBA Watson Clinic LLP - Lakeland, FL July 2016 to Present Current Accomplished Tasks and Responsibilities:  ? Had a great opportunity to work on the project from the ground zero. Went live with EPIC in 9 months after joining the team with 7 Gold Star initially at first and 8 within next 2 months and currently in pursue of 9 Gold Star.  ? Stood up 14 RHEL Server and 34 Epic Environments within.  ? Currently in process of Upgrading Epic Version to May 2019 along with Cache Version 2018.1.2  ? Cache upgrades from 2015 to 2016 and from 2016 to 2017, along with Epic upgrades from version 2015 to  August 2018. ? Set up OS settings and security via creating proper Users and Groups, assign correct file and directory  ownership and permission and kernel tuning.  ? Configured NFS Share and created Samba Share among Serves. Sync necessary files using RSYNC.  ? Configured User Access on both OS level and Epic via setting up LDAP and configuring appropriate  epicmenus.  ? Configured and monitored Red Alert and System Pulse for both OS and Epic Environments.  ? Set up PRD, DR-PRD, RPT, DR-RPT and sync all those in via setting up appropriate mirroring among them also amongst other NON-PRDs as required.  ? Troubleshoot both OS and Epic related issues.  ? Set up Backups and Backup rules through CommVault, also configured PURE Script to take a SNAPs.  ? Configured and executed Refresh amongst Environment manually, by setting up Cron tab also in  CommVault for SNAPs.  ? Create policies and provide proper resources within CommVault for the backup.  ? Carried out DR-Cutover test multiple times with success within an hour.  ? Set up and follow BCA and BCA Task list.  ? Perform scheduled Updates, Upgrades, SU installs, Patches and Maintenances.  ? Write Documentation and keep it handy so that it is readily available.  ? Create Scripts, basically BASH, for the purpose of automation and ease.  ? Provide 24X7 On call Support. Systems Engineer Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA September 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Maintained close to 500 Epic environments configuration, scripts and schedules; troubleshooting,  updating, and repairing as needed.  ? Provided the support on daily maintenance jobs (database backup, journal log/File growth checks & other  maintenance activities.)  ? Installed recommended fixes independently.  ? Installed and upgrade Cache.  ? Performed code installs Epic and EEG (using appropriate loader) under specified terms either by bringing the environments down, by pausing or without pause as directed; install required version of Release  Utilities.  ? Escalated unresolved problems to senior staff.  ? Carried out RX Ambulatory file loads to specific databases both on non-production servers for testing and follow up in the production environments as required.  ? Performed checker task and carry out validations ( code install, Hyperspace, EMFI, Differed Conversions,  Register Hyperspace etc)  ? Carried out operations on MYCHART as requested.  ? Created new Environment/s as per requirement.  ? Decommissioned Instances/Environments.  ? Worked on various instances generated under Daily Care and Feeding (DCF) report ( like space analysis,  Integrity Check, escalation of serious issues, Maintmode check, DBA Crontab Back up check, Epic FS  notifications etc)  ? Shadowed EPIC refresh and Data Center Switch-over. Linux Systems Administrator Dr First - Rockville, MD May 2015 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Installation, Maintenance and Administration of Red Hat Enterprise, OEL.  ? Upgraded firmware for Various Dell modeled servers, Dell Poweredge R410s, R610s, R720s and R810 in specific.  ? Installed and configured monitoring tool, particularly- Zabbix 2.2; addition of newly build servers, removal of old and outdated machines were the particular of zabbix apart from monitoring different aspects of servers from memory usages to performance of servers.  ? Upgraded Zabbix 2.2 to 2.4 and backed up Mysql database using application called Percona for the process.  ? Handled load balancing tool-F5 BIGIP; upgraded firmware, added new and removed outdated machines on it.  ? Handled physical machine from removing the outdated model and replacing them with the new ones to configuring hardware to the demand and need.  ? Configured the RAID level according to the request and performed task specific operations within BIOS and system settings    Environments: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.X, CentOS; Dell Poweredge R410s, R610s, R720s and R810 in specific. Intern - Linux System Administrator Velocity InfoTech Inc October 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Learned and understand how big enterprises work and how the systems are set up.  ? Installation, Maintenance and Administration of Red Hat Enterprise, SUSE and Cent OS on VMS and physical server.  ? Created users, manage user permissions, maintain User & File System quota on Red Hat Linux, CentOS.  ? Servers support included NFS, NTP, FTP, users setup/troubleshooting  ? Implementing appropriate permissions for files and folders and Managing Users and Groups  ? Creation and Maintenance of User Accounts file systems and successfully created logins IDs on large  number of servers  ? Installing and upgrading patches and packages on RHEL 6.X servers using RPM, YUM and third party  software applications.  ? Configure and setup Linux server samba protocol  ? Responsible for system configuration and installation of software applications, operating system  upgrades.  ? Acquired a decent amount of troubleshooting skills.    Environments: RHEL 6.X, CentOS, VMware ESX3.5, VMware Vsphere ESX4.0. Dell Products Education Biology High-School 2015 to 2016 B.S. in Biology/Chemistry UNIVERSITY OF NORTH TEXAS - Denton, TX Associate in Biology NORTH LAKE COLLEGE - Irving, TX