Data Systems Administrator Data <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Data Systems Administrator - United States Marine Corps Stafford, VA Seeking a position as a data systems administrator utilizing a TS/SCI clearance.  Dedicated and established Data Systems Administrator with experience in protecting and maintaining the reliability of an enterprise network and proper handling of classified information. Committed to creating a positive work environment by maintaining professional and healthy relationships amongst peers and coworkers. Capable of working independently or with a team. Work Experience Data Systems Administrator United States Marine Corps - Quantico, VA June 2015 to Present Provided stable and consistent enterprise core services supporting over 197,000 users and 10,000 mobility users spread across 12 global regions in classified and unclassified environments.  ? Managed and provided first line troubleshooting for enterprise structure including: email, mobility, software delivery, Active Directory, internal DNS, and USMC GAL services.  ? Managed the accountability and maintenance of over 1,000 servers to include: Microsoft Exchange Servers, Domain Controllers, and Utility Servers both on unclassified and classified networks covering the Marine Corps Enterprise Network (MCEN).  ? Responded appropriately and efficiently when receiving calls for assistance/troubleshooting in regards to the Marine Corps Enterprise Network and provided support to local administrators.  ? Documented and tracked high priority issues impacting core enterprise services to allow for successful resolution of over 10.000 trouble tickets.  ? Created accurate and timely reports regarding outages, incidents, and VIP issues.  ? Served as a single point of contact between the Marine Corps and the Director of the MCEN for enterprise core services.  ? Provided IT support to non-technical internal user personnel through desk side support services.  ? Explained technical information in clear terms to non-technical individuals to promote better understanding.  ? Removed and replaced malfunctioning computer parts to correct hardware problems.  ? Configured hardware, devices, and software to set up new workstations for employees. Education James Monroe High School - North Hills, CA January 2019 to January 2022 Skills Active directory (3 years), Dns (3 years), Exchange (3 years), Mobile devices (Less than 1 year), Policy management (Less than 1 year), System Administrator, System Admin Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-4