Stocker Stocker Alamogordo, NM Systems Administrator with a focus in healthcare information systems, networking/communications troubleshooting, and system maintenance with over 5 years of experience in various operating systems; self-starter, quick learner, ability to lead projects from the ground up and solve technical complex issues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Stocker W.G. Harris/ Lamain - Holloman AFB, NM December 2017 to Present • Must be able to lift at least 40 lbs.  • Performs tasks at an establishment whose primary function is that of the resale of merchandise in a retail environment.  • Moves merchandise by use of non-motorized equipment that is intended for display and resale purposes.  • Maintains integrity of merchandise on or in display fixtures utilizing various merchandise techniques common to retail trade.  • Maintains the display sales area by straightening merchandise to give a neat, full, and salable appearance, removing damaged or outdated merchandise, and displaying merchandise in such a manner to maintain freshness and sale dates.  • Manages and determines display aisle or sale requirements from existing inventory.  • Offers customer or patron assistance with the location or selection of merchandise. Custodian Aafes - Holloman AFB, NM November 2018 to May 2019 ·     Under general supervision, performs a variety of janitorial and custodial duties which are related to the general appearance and cleanliness of the interior of the exchange facilities, using industrial type powered equipment and ladders/scaffolds.  ·     Sweeps floors, hallways, corridors and stairways. Also mops, scrubs, wax, polishes floor surfaces using heavy-duty powered equipment in accordance with Aafes policies and standards. Must also perform routine maintenance on appliances such as cleaning and oiling equipment.   ·     Operates heavy industrial equipment such as vacuum cleaner, buffer, etc. to clean rugs and drapes, using chemicals and cleaning solutions as required.   ·     Washes windows, walls, partitions and cleans and replaces venetian blinds and light fixtures, using ladder or scaffold.   ·     Moves heavy furniture, boxes or other obstacles in accomplishment of cleaning and routine maintenance duties (i.e. trash collection, scraps and other materials to central pick up point).   ·     Cleans, adjusts, and oils tools and powered equipment, and changes brushes, rollers, pads and blades.   ·     Washes, cleans, disinfects, deordizes, and maintains restrooms in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. Replaces toilet tissue, paper towels, soap and deordizers as needed.   ·     Maintains stock of restroom and janitorial supplies.   ·     Performs other related duties as assigned, such as but not limited too, actively communicating store promotions and benefits in order to assist in sales growth and increase customer satisfaction.  (CHCS/AHLTA) Systems Administrator Leidos - Holloman AFB, NM March 2015 to March 2018 • Under minimal supervision, oversaw range of CHCS (Composite Health Care System)/AHLTA (Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application), providing design, technical support, problem analysis and resolution.  • Acted as liaison between IT department, vendors and senior military clinic leadership and clinic personnel.  • Created and distributed customer satisfaction surveys every quarter to monitor performance.  • Collaborated, researched and implemented new business procedures and products to assist end users with data processing needs.  • Trained and informed users on basic computing information.  • Informed staff of trouble ticket process, as well as, trouble ticket status and resolution.  • Conducted CHCS/AHLTA on-boarding/off-boarding for all clinic staff.  • Tested system patches to ensure compliance of applications before deploying to end users.  • Provided hardware and applications front-line support to CHCS/AHLTA end users  • Interacted with network services, software systems engineering and/or applications development to restore service and/or identify core problems.  • Implemented and enforced security procedures to monitor network usage and accessibility.  • Maintained and supported LAN for lab instruments, pharmacy printers and radiology imaging technologies.  • Provided functional directions during procedural documentation to coworkers and supporting vendors.  • Simulated/recreated user problems to resolve operating difficulties.  • Coordinated with Tier 3 engineers and vendors to ensure servers, client workstations, and imaging machines were functional.  • Participated in new application rollouts, testing and special projects as needed.  • Performed installations, repairs, and preventative maintenance of mobile workstations and desktops    • Created, provisioned and audited CHCS, AHLTA, HAIMS (Health Artifact and Image Management System), AWP (AHLTA Web Print) accounts for all clinic personnel.  • Screened, referred, and diagnosed internal inquiries and work requests as they related to maintenance of end-user devices (EUDs), software, hardware, and firmware utilizing experience and understanding of MHS (Medical Health Services) environment and MHS clinical systems.  • Assisted end-users (both local and remote) with questions, problems and requests for supported software and hardware computing platforms in person, via phone, or email  • Managed customer trouble tickets via BSC Remedy ticketing system  • Participated in team projects that enhanced the quality or efficiency of service support  • Provided on-call systems coverage during non-duty hours as required/scheduled  • Created baselines every month to monitor performance, security and accessibility.  • Created and maintained business continuity plan/best practices guide. Education Associate in Information Technology New Mexico State University - Alamogordo, NM August 2014 to December 2020 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (3 years), C# (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), DHCP (3 years), Pallet Jack, BOX, Microsoft Office (3 years), Forklift Operator (Less than 1 year), DEERS (3 years), CHCS (3 years), AHLTA (3 years), Windows Server 2008 R2 (3 years), Comptia A+ (3 years), Comptia Network + (1 year), Comptia Security + (1 year), Windows 7 (4 years), Windows 8 (4 years), Windows Xp (4 years), Windows Vista (4 years), Windows Server 2003 (3 years), Windows Server 2012 (1 year), Painting, Cleaning, Housekeeping, Maintenance, Data Entry, Blueprint Reading, Microsoft Word, Receptionist, Help Desk, MAC, Desktop Support Awards Customer Service Award 2018-03 Certifications/Licenses Secret Security Clearance December 2012 to January 2013 Held Security Clearance with U.S. Embassy in Brussels, Belgium. May still have interim clearance. Public Trust March 2015 to Present Have access to Holloman AFB, as well as, currently hold DBIDS and CAC. Assessments Verbal Communication — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xczgapfhdu-hfutp Critical Thinking Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to use logical approaches when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nwdrjwicb6gnkmeo Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • .NET  • Mac OS  • Windows  • Ubuntu Linux  • Windows Server 2008/2012/R2  • Python  • SQL  • HTML  • CSS  • C#  • CHCS  • AHLTA  • DHCP  • DNS  • RDC  • Active Directory  • HTTP  • HTTPS  • Outlook  • Microsoft Office  • Microsoft Outlook