System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Booz Allen Hamilton Des Moines, IA Information technology specialist with 6 years of experience in hardware/software support, and 2 years of system administration. Active Top Secret security clearance DoD issued. Graduated Bellevue Univ. with a bachelors in Management Information Systems. CompTIA Security Plus certified.    • Security Plus Certified  • HTML/CSS Exposure  • Active Directory User Management  • Mobile Device Management Deployment  • Linux Operating System Experience  • Program/Application Rollouts in SCM  • Networking Diagnostic Techniques  • Virtualization Experience  • Workflow Improvement  • Group Policy Object Creation and Deployment  • System Administration in various flavors Linux and Microsoft Windows/Server    CONTACT  PHONE:515-505-4101    EMAIL:  alexerombou@gmail.com    ALEX ENGLAND Work Experience System Administrator Booz Allen Hamilton December 2018 to Present • Migrated core servers (Domain Controllers, WSUS, File Server, etc.) and forest from Windows Server 2012 R2 to Windows Server 2016 on multiple domains.  • Migrated windows internal databases to a dedicated SQL Server for centralized management.  • Monitor UPS usage and capacity in support of availability.  • Administer ACAS vulnerability scans and mitigate any potential vulnerabilities.  • Working with a wide variety of operating systems and hardening them for a secure environment.  • Demonstrated knowledge of project management techniques in deploying new systems in a Microsoft domain. Cyber Systems Operator Iowa Air National Guard May 2016 to Present • assisted in set-up and maintenance of a computer lab for training purposes  • Virtualizing machines using Microsoft Hyper-V  • Setting up virtual switches  • Imaging machines for production use  • Utilized windows file recovery software to regenerate lost files on a share location  • Experience with a wide range of IT standards, concepts, and policies to ensure a secure and optimal infrastructure PC Technician Iowa Clinic May 2017 to July 2018 • System administrator level rights for managing users with Active Directory and ensuring membership of correct groups  • Troubleshooting/diagnosing and then repairing hardware/software failures on end-user machines and servers  • Tearing down and rebuilding end-user workstations  • Assisted in migration to Microsoft Office O365  • Application of system design for end-user and business-level hardware to ensure optimal performance in day-to-day use.  • Experience utilizing Microsoft Windows tools in effort of maximizing system reliability and ensuring optimal system performance. Support Technician II Telligen May 2017 to February 2018 • Troubleshooting user issues concerning a government website  • Created a process for team evaluation involving weekly one-on-ones with team members  • Assisted with testing of ServiceNow for implementation company wide. Help Desk Representative III ICS Advanced Technologies July 2013 to January 2015 • Troubleshooting and diagnosing a wide variety of end-user networking issues  • Developed a website for a mosaic display of 40+ cable broadcasts  • System administrator for responding to help desk trouble tickets for planning, coordinating, modifying, implementing and troubleshooting.  • Managed end-user accounts and assisted in radius setup for MicroTik hardware  • Maintained a wide knowledge of the overall architecture of the network devices administered in order to maintain and install various configurations.  • Demonstrated ability to diagnose and isolate network/application faults in support of 99.999% network up-time Education Bachelor's in Management Information Systems Bellevue University 2016 to 2018 computer science, and liberal art Des Moines Area Community College 2013 to 2015 Skills Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, Linux, SCCM, Redhat Certifications/Licenses Security+ September 2018 to September 2021