Technical Support Engineer Technical Support Engineer Systems Administrator Kennesaw, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Support Engineer MICROSOFT - Lake Mary, FL 2018 to 2019 Provide enterprise-level technical and business support to government, legal, financial, healthcare, and Fortune 500 customers. Research, diagnose, troubleshoot SharePoint Online, OneDrive for Business, Office deployment and activation technical issues. Collaborate cross-departmentally to resolve customer issues efficiently. Follow standard procedures for proper escalation of unresolved problems, creating and logging bug reports into tracking system. Support Office365 Enterprise products. Develop, maintain, and review documentation to support knowledgebase. Advise customers on product software changes and upgrades, best practices, and technical strategies to ensure operational stability.  • Facilitated seamless 100-employee use of virtual machines by determining proper settings to connect using remote desktop protocol (RDP).  • Consistently received 5-star reviews for customer service and issue resolution. Systems Administrator POLK COUNTY PROPERTY APPRAISERS - Bartow, FL 2017 to 2018 Oversaw SQL database servers running area and graphical imaging systems to assess property values and taxes for local county. Maintained optimal system and infrastructure availability. Installed and configured operating systems, application software, and system management tools. Monitored and tested application performance, resolving issues in collaboration with developers. Maintained security, backup, and redundancy strategies using SpectraLogic T120 Tape library. Configured, restored, and backed up SQL databases. Secured and maintained network as needed using Extreme and Cisco equipment. Implemented disaster recovery with management and configuration of NetBackup for server backups. Backup and restore of Cisco Switching and Routing networking equipment.  • Reduced restore time for disaster recovery databases by 50%+ by upgrading server to use USB3 to improve throughput to backup drive.  • Decreased overall WAN traffic for Windows updates by setting up Windows Software Update Services (WSUS) servers at remote locations.  • Improved network quality and security by configuring Windows Software Update Services (WSUS) servers at each remote location to cache and distribute windows updates for all machines.  • Configured systems that supported GIS infrastructure applications.  • Upgraded Veritas Netbackup 6.5 to Symantec Netbackup 8 optimizing backup performance and reducing backup time by 35%  • Upgrading SpectraLogic from LTO4 to LTO6 tape drives and installing SAS cards in server  • Installed, configured and maintained twenty Windows Servers 2008R2, 2012, 2012R2, 2016 Systems Associate BAYSHORE SOLUTIONS - Tampa, FL October 2015 to April 2017 Helped design information and operational support systems. Supported hosting web applications. Worked with sales team to market hosting service solutions. Installed, configured, tested and maintained operating systems, application software, and system management tools to optimize system and infrastructure availability. Maintained hyper-converged virtualization environments to increase scalability and resource efficiency. Work with developers to implement performance solutions. Develop and implement configuration plans for Apache, MySQL, and PHP, IIS and SQL ASP.NET applications, securing third-party support as needed. Maintained security, backup, and redundancy strategies.  • Developed plan to reduce amount of website penetrations and SQL injections for PHP application hosting.  • Collaborated with IT director to boost network efficiency by teaming network interface controller (NIC) to double throughput.  • Reduced time to backup virtualization environment 75% by analyzing network traffic and changing configuration in server switch.  • Reduced number of attacks to customer WordPress website by developing plan using third-party tools, resulting in decrease of network traffic saving bandwidth. Education High school or equivalent Skills Apache (2 years), ASP (2 years), ASP.NET (2 years), IIS (2 years), SQL (3 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, Linux, Active Directory, Linux Administrator, Redhat Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified June 2016 to June 2018 Network+ Certification June 2016 to June 2018 Additional Information Core Competencies    System Administration  Functional System Design  Project Management  Web Application Support  Troubleshooting  Documentation  Server Virtualization  Disaster Recovery  Business Continuity  Testing  Incident Management  Technical Support  Customer Service  Stakeholder Engagement  Vendor Relations    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Microsoft/Linux Server Virtualization Web Applications IIS SQL APACHE MySQL VPN  SSH RDP NetBackup Windows Server ASP.NET Application Support Microsoft Active Directory  DNS Exchange 2010 A+/Network+ Certified VMWare ESXi Proxmox 5 Citrix Xen Parallels