Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network and Systems Administrator Roseville, CA Experienced Windows system administrator and certified network technician. Professionally commended for exceptional performance, effective communication, and initiative to improve existing systems and procedures. Work Experience Systems Administrator TopMark Funding, LLC - Roseville, CA March 2018 to Present Windows Server – Administered 12+ Windows Server 2012R2 virtual machines across  5 servers operating both Hyper-V and VMware. Managed Active Directory (AD) and  Group Policy (GPO), Office365 / Exchange Online, and data backup systems.    Desktop Administration – Provided desktop support to two companies and over 100  employees. Prepared and maintained all user workstations, software and security  updates, and monitored antivirus status. Responded to user helpdesk tickets promptly  and prioritized tasks based on business objectives.    Network/VoIP Administration – Configured SonicWall firewalls to provide reliable  network connectivity between three office locations and 12+ remote VPN users.  Managed on-site Mitel Connect VoIP system, monitored call quality and network  congestion, and ensured platform stability through VLAN/firewall configuration and  database optimization.    Scripting – Created and customized PowerShell code to significantly improve department  productivity, including staging deployments with Desired State Configuration (DSC),  managing data across multiple file servers, and editing AD user and group properties. Systems Administrator Exchange Bank - Santa Rosa, CA September 2016 to March 2018 IBM iSeries (AS/400) Operation – Completed FISERV Signature configuration and   operating procedures in both production and test environments simultaneously while   maintaining an accuracy rate greater than 99%. Responsible for importing Federal Reserve   ACH files and processing full- system backup procedures. Systems Administrator Bauman College - Penngrove, CA March 2015 to August 2016 Network Architect – Designed and implemented a complete overhaul of the network  hardware and topology across three physical locations serving over 300 users, achieving  a 10x increase in network data speed. Commended for technical, analytical and problem solving skills; effective task prioritization; and initiative to improve existing procedures.    Provided systems administration support for Windows systems including server and workstation upgrades, backup monitoring, user account setup, and security administration.    Organized and maintained Google Apps for Work systems, including user management, company security audits, and advanced user troubleshooting. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT Present Skills Microsoft Office 365 (4 years), Windows Server 2012 (4 years), Windows Server 2016 (1 year), Hyper-V (4 years), Linux (3 years), Network Administration (4 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Project+