Business Systems Administrator (Salesforce) Business <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Salesforce) Business Systems Administrator (Salesforce) - Twitter, Inc ? Over 5 years of experience in the software industry and over 4 years of experience as a Salesforce Administrator.  ? Experienced in setting up organizations, Salesforce Communities, customizing security settings, objects, fields, workflows,  dashboards and reports.  ? Highly knowledgeable in process flow, root-cause analysis and business requirements gathering.  ? Prepared test plans and test cases based on functional specifications and business requirements.  ? Excellent customer service, oral and written communication, and project management skills.  ? Strong research and problem solving abilities to identify and resolve issues. Work Experience Business Systems Administrator (Salesforce) Twitter, Inc - San Francisco, CA January 2019 to Present Implemented Kaizen methodologies to improve existing workflows and processes to reduce support agent cognitive  load and efficiency by over 50%.  ? Subject Matter Expert on Salesforce for operations teams across org.  ? Analyze and translate business requirements into deliverables such as use cases, user stories, workflow diagrams.  ? Create and update existing flows, fields, workflows, assignment rules, list views according to business needs.  ? Transition Periscope support team from Desk.com to Salesforce Service Cloud in Lightning Console.  ? Conduct ad hoc meetings with stakeholders to clarify requirements or gather more information.  ? Present demos and training to various key stakeholders and potential adopters.  ? Implement and update documentation with the latest information and Salesforce changes to reflect business flow.  ? Create reports and dashboards to stakeholders to provide metrics and insight to help improve their efficiency.  ? Attended agent shadowing sessions to understand agents daily workflow and recommended ways to improve  efficiency and cognitive load. Salesforce Specialist Google, Inc - Sunnyvale, CA May 2016 to January 2019 Managed Salesforce organization of over 9,500 active users with changes to user roles, profiles and maintain sharing  settings for SFDC objects.  ? Evaluate customer requirements into design specs and work with development team to implement features.  ? Implemented detailed bug template forms to improve bug reporting quality which increased efficiency in ticket  processing and reduced redundancy for support agents by 60%.  ? Debug SFDC issues regarding workflows, validation rules, flows, Visualforce pages, classes, triggers, etc.  ? Insert and modify data using Workbench and Data Loader from .csv files, and merge duplicate records using merge  wizard.  ? Review, debug, triage and fix bugs reported by our customers. Salesforce Administrator Salesforce.com, Inc - San Francisco, CA May 2015 to May 2016 San Francisco, CA  ? Set-up testing environments for testing and blitzes according to requirements gathered from Product Managers, QA  Engineers and Developers.  ? Created, developed and established a set of documents for onboarding and test environment setup.  ? Configured Salesforce setup by customizing users, roles, profiles, field/record level security, email templates, etc.  ? Trained, managed and aided new hires with the onboarding process. Education B.S in Industrial Technology SAN JOSE STATE UNIVERSITY - San Jose, CA Skills ANDROID STUDIO, PYTHON, BUGZILLA, JIRA, ECLIPSE Additional Information Skills: Salesforce Admin, Apex, Visualforce, Java, Python, UNIX, SQL; Black Box, Manual and Regression Testing; Microsoft  Word, Excel, OneNote, PowerPoint; Bugzilla, Testrail, JIRA; PyCharm, Ghostlab, Eclipse, Android Studio, HockeyApp.