Associate, Desktop Support Services Associate, Desktop Support Services Associate, Desktop Support Services - KPMG, LLP Hanover, MD Highly motivated individual seeking to work collaboratively with an experienced IT company. Strong interpersonal, Database Administration and Cyber Security skills with the ability to work independently or as a cohesive unit. High attention to detail and ability to work in a fast paced environment.    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY & EXPERTISE  • Operating Systems: Windows 2003, 7, 8, 8.1 and 10, RHEL 5/6, CentOS 5/6, OEL 5/6  • VMware and Hyper-V, Bomgar, TeamViewer, Citrix Systems  • Ticketing System: Zendesk, EAM, ServiceNow  • Knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite, Word, Excel and Microsoft Outlook applications  • Languages: SQL, Bash (Bourne Again Shell) RDBMS: Oracle Database 11g/12c, MySQL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate, Desktop Support Services KPMG, LLP - Washington, DC June 2019 to Present Deliver high-quality second-level service of the technology environment, Fusion/ServiceNow ticket administration, asset life-cycle management from purchasing through disposal  ? Provide intermediate-level Windows operating system troubleshooting; provide intermediate level network troubleshooting  ? Participate in the implementation of national IT projects in the local environment  ? Proactively communicate with customers, from analysis through resolution, to keep them informed of status; provide follow-up upon resolution to ensure customer satisfaction  ? Apply working knowledge of internal client-specific applications to troubleshoot issue  ? Test and deliver patches, product releases, and other firm-supported upgrades and enhancements Help Desk Support Tier 1 PG County Department of Parks and Recreation - Riverdale, MD October 2018 to May 2019 Serve as the first point of contact for troubleshooting hardware/software, PC and printer problems in a 1,000+ user environment. This relates to all technology, including workstations, servers, printers, networks, and vendor specific hardware and software.  ? Provide remote customer service support assistance and remediation to internal and external customers in the areas of directories, standard Windows desktop applications, and applications developed under this Contract or predecessors.  ? Provide technical assistance to customers via telephone, email or in person.  ? Prior experience using a ticketing system to create, document, track and route tickets  ? Escalate any task or trouble ticket that is beyond the knowledge base of the Help Desk Support to the appropriate person.  ? Experience using service desk software (opening, documenting, closing, follow up on service calls).  ? Utilize Citrix Systems to access different databases for account lockouts, password resets, inputting payroll information.  ? Created and detailed trouble tickets and entered them into a database and correctly refer them to the appropriate team members.  ? Located root causes of technical errors and implemented prompt solutions  ? Leverage remote control technology (such as BOMGAR) while troubleshooting desktop and laptop problems  ? Worked with end users resolving their software and hardware issues in efficient manners  ? Maintained confidentiality and discretion when working with passworded or sensitive materials  ? Troubleshoot internet connectivity issues  ? Document service requests and enters into the helpdesk database for tracking Administrative Assistant/Tech Support Agape Life Ministries - Laurel, MD November 2016 to February 2019 Troubleshoot laptop software, hardware and network connectivity related issues  ? Maintenance and monitoring of computer networks and systems.  ? Logging and keeping records of customer sign-ins  ? Composed technical documentation for operating personal computer and applications  ? Designed and conducted online training for customers and company employees  ? Operated a variety of office equipment, including printers, copiers and personal computers as well as performing troubleshooting  ? Utilized Microsoft Office Suite applications for administrative use  ? Prepared documents, files, and folders in a neat and efficient manner  ? Maintained departmental files and records in paper format  ? Assisted in preparation of documents Oracle Database Administrator/ Systems Administrator Chaveran, Inc - Bowie, MD January 2016 to March 2017 As an Oracle DBA intern at Chaveran, Inc. I was actively involved in proactive monitoring and schema object management of existing OLTP database environments, as well as using Oracle best practices for new database deployments and other System Admin duties.  ? Utilize OFA recommendations for installing, managing and upgrading the Oracle 11g/12c RDBMS on Windows and Linux platforms  ? Manage database users (creating users, define roles, space limits, resetting passwords, unlocking user logons, etc.) using CIA-triad guidelines  ? Supported requirements for managing installation, configuration and maintenance of Unix/Windows workstations and servers, including network attached storage devices in support of business processing requirements  ? Leverage best security practices for Oracle network configurations using NETCA  ? Performed software installations and upgrades to Unix/Windows operating systems and layered software packages and maintains them in accordance with established policies, procedures and service level agreements; evaluation and installation of software/hardware patches and resolution of software related problems associated with products  ? Responsible for patch analysis on production systems and applying patches as needed  ? Performed backup and restore functions for Oracle 11g and 12c databases using RMAN and Data Pump as needed  ? Responsible for automating routine tasks as OS level jobs scheduled via CRON or Task Scheduler  ? Responsible for patch analysis on production systems and applying patches as needed  ? Experienced in provisioning Oracle Grid Infrastructure (GI) and configuring ASM storage  ? Actively involved in all aspects of schema object management  ? Leverage in-depth understand of Oracle database architecture to solve critical issues  ? Provide advanced desktop troubleshooting skills related to operating system, printing, and virus cleanup/protection  ? Knowledgeable of Oracle RAC database concepts  ? Proficient knowledge of SQL language  ? Knowledgeable of data modeling concepts  ? Automation of weekly backups using shell scripting and RMAN.  ? Experience troubleshooting Oracle databases including SQL tuning, capacity planning, and schema design  ? Worked with systems administrator in installing, configuring, deploying and maintaining our Hyper-V and VMWare environments  ? Configured installation of Oracle 11g/12c software and NETCA Listener  ? Experience working in virtualized environments  ? Windows 10 troubleshooting experience as well as installation  ? Ability to parse through large databases to find and analyze information  ? Working knowledge of LAN, WAN, SAN networks  ? Troubleshoot problems with software, networking, and other related technologies.  ? Knowledgeable of Direct Attached Storage & Network Attached Storage Backroom Associate Sears - Columbia, MD October 2015 to July 2016 Understands website navigation and proactively leverages technology in order to facilitate the customer experience.  ? Completes minor repairs of store stock and customer merchandise.  ? Inspects returned merchandise; Determines proper disposition/handling.  ? Adheres to merchandise and inventory protection standards.  ? Complete order receipts, obtain merchandise from bins or shelves, package objects for shipping, unload and put away orders.  ? Data entry of warehouse order processing. Education Associate's Degree Covenant Theological Seminary - Creve Coeur, MO July 2018 Bachelor of Science in Information Systems University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ July 2018 to July 2021