Principal Systems Engineer Principal <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Principal Systems Engineer, SRNS Graniteville, SC Motivated Information Technology professional with a demonstrated history of working in various environments including manufacturing, government, and education. Skilled in continuous improvement, time management, project planning, business documentation, business assessments, implementing solutions, vendor/client relations. Strong interpersonal, communication, and leadership skills. Focused on customer service and support with a Master’s in Information Systems Management. Desires to work in a customer-oriented environment designing solutions to meet business requirements.     Teamwork and Leadership   Managed Services  Decision Making   Oral/Written Communications  Performance Monitoring Documentation   Organizing and Prioritizing  Customer Relations   Mentoring   Business Analysis  Project Management   Strategic Planning Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Principal Systems Engineer SRNS - Aiken, SC Present Responsible for defining the scope of IT programs and developing effective quality solutions to challenges which involve unique or complex problems. Developing, recommending, and monitoring business wide strategic directions for system engineering and services. Providing leadership, training, coaching, and guidance to junior staff. Maintaining reliability, stability, and availability of the site’s computing infrastructure systems including servers, desktops, storage devices, data center components, and utility software. Providing judgment, leadership, and expertise in the large-scale implementation of infrastructure equipment and components. Evaluating processes, anticipating requirements, implementing successful solutions. Communicating to cross-functional teams as well as various levels of management. Maintaining operating goals and objectives while managing quality, costs, and efficiency. Information Technology Specialist KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP - Beech Island, SC February 2018 to April 2019 Responsible for supporting the day to day operations of PCs, servers and networking equipment. Coordinating IT projects for the mill. Supporting operational maintenance of local data centers and site IT infrastructure. Leading the planning and execution of infrastructure implementation projects. Maintaining site ITS Business Continuity Plan and Risk Assessment. Ensuring that the LAN and related computer systems are compliant and healthy. Establishing working relationships with engineering, infrastructure, site personnel, vendors, internal and external customers. Solving complex problems relative to business operations. Evaluating computing systems and suggesting recommendations for improvements. Systems Administrator, Server Team Premier Networx August 2017 to October 2017 Responsible for troubleshooting various client issues related to firewalls, vpn, servers, compliance, and security. Traveling to multiple locations to resolve technical problems. Interacting with clients and vendors. Work as an individual as well as with a team to discuss and implement projects. Track assignments through ticketing system and monitor systems with managed services applications.  Infrastructure Manager, Information Technology Aiken County Government March 2014 to August 2017 Responsible for maintaining infrastructure including physical and virtual servers, virtual storage, HP/Aruba switches, Cisco ASAs, blade servers, multiple VLANs, remote locations, Palo Alto firewall, Fat Pipe, Barracuda spam filter, monitoring tools and utilities, VPN, managing AD, GPO, Exchange, MFA, network diagramming and documenting, virus/malware/intrusion detection and resolution, imaging systems, VoIP phone systems, assisting with Helpdesk issues, cable termination, tracing, and management, performing backup/restore jobs, supporting end users, working with vendors and public users, configuring peripherals, troubleshooting applications and systems. Utilizing ConnectWise suite for support and monitoring. Project planning and implementation. Training technicians and users. Recommending devices and applications for improved efficiency. Performing server remediation and updates as needed. Coordinating with and supporting Aiken County Sheriff’s Office as well as the Solicitor’s Office. Working on security enhancements and implementations. Education MBA in Management/Information Technology Baker Center for Graduate Studies BS in Business Administration University of South Carolina at Aiken - Aiken, SC AS in Computer Science Aiken Technical College Skills Firewall (6 years), Inventory Management (10+ years), Security (10+ years), Solutions (4 years), Training (10+ years), Management (3 years), Budgeting (1 year), System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory, Cisco Certifications/Licenses CJIS Level 3 Security December 2015 to December 2017 Additional Information Wireless Solutions   Microsoft Server   O365/Skype Infrastructure Proximity/Badging   VM Ware/ESXi  Palo Alto   Active Directory   SAN/NAS  Microsoft SQL   SharePoint   IIS/DNS/DHPC   Backup and Restoration   Network Fundamentals   TrendMicro   Server Administration Cisco/HP/Dell   AS 400  Zebra Printers Mitel/Shoretel/Avaya   HelpDesk  Policies/Procedures   Ticketing Systems   Cost Reductions   Training and Support Switch/Firewall Config     Security/Intrusion ConnectWise Suite   Network Scanning Audits/Licensing  Solution Development Implementations   Business Operations