Programs Analyst/ System Administrator Programs Analyst/ <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Programs Analyst/ System Administrator - U.S Army Jacksonville, FL CCNA - CISSP Associate's - Security Clearance - Expert and highly familiar with a wide variety of help desk, networking, security and operating system software. An enthusiastic professional with a background implementing cyber security products, including firewalls, anti-virus software and intrusion prevention systems. Multitasking Network & System Administrator with a background in system upgrades and hardware monitoring. Skilled in technical research and expert in Cisco/ Dell/ Microsoft products. Ready for new professional challenges and willing to take on dynamic responsibilities. Work Experience Programs Analyst/ System Administrator U.S Army - Kings Bay, GA April 2019 to Present • Routine weekly maintenance on multiple Servers running Windows server 2008, supporting several computer based classrooms to run simulations and training material for hundreds of Navy sailors. Effectively cutting training time in 1/2 compared to traditional methods.  • Performing routine updates and server changes according to the Navy's needs. Updates ranging from windows service updates on servers, to Oracle Java updates, or simulator updates being pushed out through File and Application server VM's  • Interface with Dell servers via HyperV to access virtual machines to perform weekly and daily backups.  • Review Windows security and application logs for faults or security issues.  • Interface with McAfee Policy Orchestrator and VirusScan Enterprise to perform weekly antivirus updates and security updates according to TCS and DISA Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs), to maintain IA compliance.  • Monitor existing database servers to ensure databases are functioning properly and as designed, and implement database security procedures and conduct database security evaluations, audits, and reviews.  • Manipulate Group Policies in order to troubleshoot issues within computers following updates in training environments.  • Interface with Linux RedHat to navigate directories in order to correct security deficiencies and perform routine server updates to maintain standards on the ACAS. I.T. Systems/ Network Update & Maintenance Support Specialist U.S Army - Jacksonville, FL February 2015 to Present • Accomplished measurable results while supporting organizations of 150+ in high pressure environments earning a promotion to Specialist during hurricane state of emergency activations.  • Diagnosed and resolved routine |complex technical issues to ensure confidentiality, integrity, and appropriate network/ server access using Windows Server 2012, DELL servers, and VMWare.  • Established and maintained satellite and terrestrial networks that consisted of CISCO routers, switches, DELL servers, HyperV/ VMWare virtual machines, SIPR - NIPR encryption-decryption equipment, voice over IP phones, combat net radios to >50 users.  • Implement the configuration of routers and switches, satellite acquisition and the deployment of several end user devices.  • Prioritized, reviewed and conducted work assigned and identified problems, bugs and trends while performing a variety of work activities within client services field support, help desk sections derived from conducting domestic and global operations, effectively bringing overall field deployment readiness from 15% to 100%. I.T Specialist/ Help Desk U.S Army - Ponte Vedra, FL November 2018 to April 2019 • Imaged/ re-imaged 100+ teacher Lenovo laptops using PXE as a part of a Technology refresh project, and adjusted account preferences according to their need. Effectively doubled teacher + administration staff, productivity with faster and convenient hardware and software.  • Worked with Active Directory to build user network profiles, reset passwords, unlock accounts, etc.  • Researched and resolved issues/inquiries daily via District web-ticketing system.  • Met hardware/ software upgrade deadlines by managing and coordinating with team members to implement new products for staff use seamlessly.  • Remote management on Windows Server 2012 r2.  • Implemented remote management for 100+ classroom smart screens in order to apply updates/ troubleshoot Screen Beams. Implemented on Windows Server 2012.  • Maintained hundreds of student laptops and laptop carts to ensure constant uptime of student productivity with online classes and web services. Education Associate certification in Certified Information Security Systems Professional Associate Stetson University - Jacksonville, FL March 2019 Associate's degree in education Florida State College at Jacksonville - Jacksonville, FL February 2017 certification Stetson University - Jacksonville, FL November 2016 Fort Gordon Cyber School of Excellence - Fort Gordon, GA May 2016 Skills Cisco (4 years), Data analysis (Less than 1 year), ethernet (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), firewall (Less than 1 year), help desk (4 years), Imaging (Less than 1 year), Lan (Less than 1 year), Maintenance (4 years), Marketing analysis (Less than 1 year), Microsoft sharepoint (Less than 1 year), Microsoft word (Less than 1 year), Netapp (Less than 1 year), networking (Less than 1 year), Outlook (Less than 1 year), Pki (Less than 1 year), Powerpoint (Less than 1 year), Project management (Less than 1 year), Sharepoint (Less than 1 year), Vmware. (4 years)