Network/Service Technician Network/Service Technician Network/Service Technician - Copier Consultants Inc Akron, OH Work Experience Network/Service Technician Copier Consultants Inc March 2016 to Present Troubleshoot network connectivity issues client PCs to MFPs, Answer service called and document all procedures and solutions, Install tools on client PCs for printing, scanning to folder,  email, & network folder, Maintain mail server, Install network cables and switches, Completely  network MFPs to client networks, Rebuild internal parts for MFPs, Set up and program new  MFPs, Customer Service Import Administrator Kane Is Able October 2015 to March 2016 Managing daily load sheets, utilizing Walmart internal software to finalize all daily transactions.  In addition, I work within the communications and accuracy of information for teams in the company.  *Job gap: entered educational path leading to graduation Systems Analyst MetroHealth June 2015 to August 2015 Created spreadsheets to manage the troubleshooting steps for the EPIC program. In addition, I  was responsible for documenting solutions, building and testing. New product rules would be  implemented for end-user interpretation.  COMMUNITY OUTREACH  NORA- Recovery Mentor for charges admitted to the facility.  ACCESS - Project Manager to correlate a donation drive for homeless women and children. JR Engineering January 2013 to December 2013 Duties encompassed managing quality control for equipment, and completing the returns for safety reasons.  INTERNSHIP Education Associate of Applied Science in Technology ITT Technical Institute - Fairlawn, OH December 2015 Skills SOLUTIONS (2 years), QUALITY CONTROL (Less than 1 year), CLIENT-SERVER (Less than 1 year), INFORMATION SECURITY (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  ? Quality control, 3 years ? IP networking, 2 years  ? White-glove customer care, 3 years ? Information security, 2 years  ? Administration, 3 years ? Client-server networking, lab  ? Software management, 2 year experience  ? Problem-solving solutions, 4 years  ? MS Office Suite Expert