Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - DarusSalam Foundation Chicago, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator DarusSalam Foundation November 2016 to Present Serve as the initial point of contact for diagnosing and troubleshooting a wide range of software,  hardware, network, and other issues, escalating when appropriate.  ? Manage projects and work done by vendors and other employee.  ? Configure and maintain all computers, mobile and peripheral devices, and A/V equipment.  ? Assist in configuration of IP devices, access control systems, and biometric security devices.  ? Assist in configuration of routers, switches, wireless APs, and WLAN controllers.  ? Work on frontend and backend web development using Amazon Web Services (EC2 and S3) and WordPress.  ? Code custom WordPress files using HTML and CSS.  ? Train new employees and explained protocols clearly and efficiently.  ? Create documentation of procedures for user training. Office Manager DarusSalam Foundation 2015 to 2016 Install, configure, and maintain hardware and software to ensure optimal performance.  ? Serve as project manager, setting project scope, budget, and timeline, delegating tasks, and communicating progress to all levels of the organization.  ? Handle an average of 40 phone calls and emails daily, efficiently prioritizing and resolving issues.  ? Coordinate and manage work being done by vendors and contractors.  ? Prepare detailed financial reports and lead meetings to present findings.  ? Work cooperatively with key team members and upper management.  ? Train new employees and explained protocols clearly and efficiently. Freelance graphic design Biology, Benedictine University May 2013 to May 2013 Freelance graphic design  ? Various leadership roles in national nonprofit youth organization    Education Bachelor of Science in Biology, Benedictine University  May 2013 Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses AWS Solutions Architect - Associate January 2018 to January 2020