Project Lead/Programmer Project Lead/Programmer Security Technician/Programmer Mesa, AZ My main goal is to become a vital part of your team for as long as possible while I continue to gain knowledge and experience to further my career. I have a lot of experience working with people in the customer service, A/V and security fields, over ten years working in the low voltage industry with a solid six years focusing on security and surveillance. I also have about three years of experience as leadership through different jobs giving me low to mid-level management skills. I hope that you find me suitable for an open position on your team.    You can view my LinkedIn profile at https://www.linkedin.com/in/jttiburzi Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Lead/Programmer Tel Tech Networks INC - Phoenix, AZ April 2019 to Present • Site surveys  • Software Programming and configuration  • networking/IP configuration  • QA inspections Security Technician Dial Security May 2018 to Present Dial Security is a privately-owned security and communications company that specializes in burglary, fire, access control, and surveillance systems for residential and commercial applications.  • Our primary brand to install for burglary, access control and fire is DMP. Although we service accounts with Honeywell, DSC, Bosch, and Lynx. Most of my personal experience has been with DMP but I have assisted in servicing these other systems.  • The product we use most for surveillance is Hikvision. I have installed, programmed, and serviced a wide variety of cameras and NVR's. Security Technician Outsource July 2017 to May 2018 Outsource is the largest staffing firm in the nation specializing in the placement of low voltage and electrical talent. I was mostly placed with companies in a specialized role as a security technician.  • My primary jobs are to install access control systems like Amag and Bosch, as well as devices like card readers and door contacts.  • Also installing surveillance equipment like camera systems and DVRs • Other duties include programming, cable management, team support, and service troubleshooting Systems Integrator Pacific Low Voltage April 2017 to July 2017 Pacific Low Voltage specializes in the design and integration of Security Surveillance, Voice, Data and Audio/Video networks and they are partnered with industry leading manufacturers.  • My primary responsibilities included programming systems (phone, A/V, Surveillance, Access control, and Automation), Training the end users how to use their new equipment, and servicing (troubleshooting and maintenance) • My other job duties included pulling cables of all different types for voice, data, A/V, paging, fiber optic, and coax.  • I installed CCTV security systems (IC Realtime, Luxor, Vitek); Access control systems (S2, Isonas), configured DVR's, I also setup, install and configure WAP's and WIFI systems.  • Mounting televisions and configured connected equipment, programming smart remotes, I also installed and configured surround sound systems.  • Before leaving, I began to learn Automation systems like Control4 and RTI Electronics Technician VT Milcom October 2015 to March 2017 VT Milcom Inc. is VT Group's premier emerging technology integrator, specializing in turnkey engineering design and technical services for advanced electronics and communications systems worldwide. They are a recognized leader in design and implementation of technology solutions such as Passive Optical Networking, audio visual and digital media, security and surveillance, wireless technologies, and nurse call systems, to name a few. They are the most experienced Command, Control, Communications, Computer, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) Alteration Installation Team (AIT) contractor for the U.S. Navy, and have earned the reputation as the premier implementer of fleet C4ISR, submarine communications and shore-based C4IT systems.  • My primary responsibilities are working with a team of piers installing various systems for the Navy. These systems include ICOP, ATIP, ADNS, NMT, GCCS, and many more.  • While installing these systems I would install many types of cables like heliax or multi-pair and build the appropriate connectors and equipment racks.  • Other responsibilities include opening and closing MCT's, banding, and cleaning. Technician / Social Media/Web Administrator Xpedient Communications, Inc November 2014 to February 2015 Xpedient Communications is a technologies infrastructure solutions provider based in Southern California. We design, install, and service unified solutions for every office, making Xpedient a convenient single-source provider. They are dedicated to delivering innovative solutions that not only meet our clients' needs but exceed their expectations.They specialize in VOIP and PBX telephone systems, structured cabling, data center design, video security, access control, audio visual, fiber optics, and outside plant.  • My job duties included pulling cables of all different types for voice, data, A/V, paging, fiber optic, and coax.  • I installed CCTV security systems; configured DVR's, I also setup, install and configure WAP's and WIFI systems.  • I would mount and configure different types of television displays, cameras, projectors, and screens.  • Part of my job was also to install servers and data racks running on the Linux operating system.  • I also terminated jacks and patch panels for voice and data.  • The other duties I performed were: setting up pathways, using the ramset and the screw poll, and assembling and anchoring patch panel racks.  • I have pulled and set up fiber optic, but I have never terminated it. Wireman Communication Wiring Specialists (CWS) June 2008 to July 2008 CWS is a telecommunications company that services most of San Diego county along with some private contractors, they specialize in voice, data, a/v, paging, fiber optics, and coax.  • My job duties included pulling cables of all different types for voice, data, a/v, paging, fiber optic, and coax.  • I helped install Crestron systems.  • I also terminated jacks and patch panels for voice and data.  • The other duties I performed were: setting up pathways, using the ramset and the screw poll, and assembling and anchoring patch panel racks.  • I have pulled and set up fiber optic, but I have never terminated it. Education bachelor's degree in Criminal Justice University of Phoenix - San Diego, CA September 2011 to January 2015 Skills access control (2 years), CCTV (Less than 1 year), CPR (Less than 1 year), Customer service (Less than 1 year), Security (3 years) Additional Information • Reading prints, Customer service, information technology, construction, computer repair, telecommunications, cabling, Cable Management, patch panel termination, cable termination, signal testing, voice and data.  • Installation and servicing of CCTV, Luxor, Crestron, Extron, Uniden, Logitech, Vitek, VoIP, WAP/WIFI systems.  • Troubleshooting and maintenance, low to mid-level leadership, team building, time management, Microsoft office suit, website design and maintenance, guest relations.  • Security specializations, access control, patrol, report writing, investigations, AED, first aid, CPR, safety, and perimeter patrol.  • Leadership, team building, shift management