Sr. Information Assurance Engineer Sr. Information Assurance Engineer Sr. Information Assurance Engineer - GCSS-AF Montgomery, AL Work Experience Sr. Information Assurance Engineer GCSS-AF - Montgomery, AL May 2014 to Present Part of development team to integrate Nessus, Guardium and SCAP vulnerability and compliance scans into Splunk for an accurate picture and management of GCSS-AF security posture for all enclaves including Cloud environments.  • Create accurate documentation with repeatable processes for sustainment and troubleshooting of vulnerability management tool.  • Review, verify and implement security controls on Microsoft, UNIX, and Solaris based operating systems to meet DISA STIGs.  • Design custom reports for analysis and correction of GCSS-AF vulnerabilities for all levels of management and operations. Sr. Information Assurance Officer 26th Network Operations Squadron - Montgomery, AL March 2012 to May 2014 Reviews and verifies security implementation of Microsoft, UNIX, and Solaris based operating systems in accordance with DISA STIGs, CTOs, FRAGOs, and Air Force Security tasks.  • Creates custom reports categorized to clearly identify and analyze areas requiring immediate attention and to aide technicians in remediation, mitigation and POAM development.  • Performs verification and validation activities in accordance with DIACAP and USAF guidance.  • Provides Plan of Action and Milestone (POAM) support through remediation, compliance assessment, status reporting and preparation of support documentation.  • Briefs leadership regularly on current security posture of all Windows, UNIX and ESXi systems on multiple classified and unclassified enclaves. Sr. Cyber Support Technician 908th Communications Flight - Montgomery, AL September 2011 to December 2012 Creates training plans to teach 15 certified administrators how to manage network accounts, groups, distribution lists, and access rights to systems and equipment for over 1400 users.  • Sr. System Administrator responsible for planning, coordinating, modifying, implementing, and troubleshooting systems to support customers' needs and in upcoming AFNet migration.  • Re-vamped Equipment Custodian Officer Program in concert with Air Force Audit Agency to resolve deficiencies and streamline processes for over $3M worth of IT equipment.  • Consultant on Organization Information Assurance Program over-haul to lend expertise to the rebuilding of the program in accordance with DoD policies and Air Force Instructions. Sr. Systems Administrator/Information Assurance Manager 433rd Communications Flight - San Antonio, TX October 2008 to October 2008 10/2008- 8/20011    • Lead technician in organization's AFNet migration of over 1,500 unique systems and 3,000 users.  • Maintained organization's Information Assurance Program at 100% compliance while providing guidance to team of subordinate Information Assurance Officers and educating end users.  • Resolved wide range of problems within the scope of the data center and referred problems requiring highly specialized expertise to the appropriate IT specialty office using Remedy ticketing system as Sr. customer technical analyst.  • Built Windows Server 2003 system and configured Windows Deployment Services to deploy SDC images increasing system deployment by 80% saving considerable man-hours and greatly reducing user downtime during system replacement.  • IT instructor/trainer with the ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing to prepare/present technical reports and formal classroom training sessions in a clear, concise, and effective manner.  • Installed, STIG'd and maintained Windows Server 2008 systems in support of Air Lift Wings missions. Education Master of Science in Information Security and Assurance Western Governor's University Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Charter Oak State College - New Britain, CT Information Technology Community College of the Air Force - Montgomery, AL USAF Technical School - Keesler AFB, MS Skills CISSP, CEH, CHFI, G2700, CCENT, Security+, STIGs, SCAP, Security Analyst, Nessus, Retina Additional Information Qualifications  • Active TS/SCI  • Master of Science, Information Security and Assurance  • Bachelor of Science, Information Systems  • Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP)  • GIAC Certified ISO-27000 Specialist (G2700)    • Computer Hacking Forensic Investigator (CHFI)  • Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH)  • Cisco Certified Entry Network Technician (CCENT)  • CompTIA Security+  • 12 years Information Technology experience  • 10 years Military Service