Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Portland, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator 64 Audio - Vancouver, WA May 2018 to Present Maintain network infrastructure in three different buildings for an office/manufacturing environment. Configure desktop/laptops/phones (Mac/Windows/iOS) for employees and install software required for job roles. G Suite Business, AWS, and VoIP Administration. Make sure backups are running to cloud storage. Troubleshooting a wide variety of IT issues involving networking hardware, CAD/3D software, NAS, employee computers, Quickbooks, etc. Support everyone from CEO down. External Technician Oregon Point of Sale - Portland, OR July 2017 to March 2018 Prep and install POS equipment and software in restaurants, bars and hotels in Washington and Oregon. Do on site troubleshooting when help desk can't resolve issue over the phone. Build strong rapport with customers and provide excellent customer service. Assist in training customers on how to use multiple different POS systems. Perform database migrations when upgrading hardware equipment for customer. Configure and install networking hardware to create PCI compliant networks. Work with customers on scheduling on site troubleshooting visits and installs. Technical Support Tier 2 SPOT Business Systems, LLC - Draper, UT July 2016 to June 2017 Troubleshoot/install computer peripherals remotely using GoToAssist and LogMeIn. Help configure POS software to aid clients on running their dry cleaning businesses. Handle escalated issues to do further troubleshooting, investigating, and problem solving. Escalate issues to developers if needed. Edit reports using Crystal Reports and HTML/CSS. Install Microsoft SQL. Take backups of databases and perform database migrations. Be a team player by assisting other technicians with questions on more complex issues. Give suggestions and tips on how to make the service we provide our customers better so we can have stronger relationships with our customers. Help assist in finding bugs in the POS software, mobile app and websites. Help customers with their Accounts Receivable questions. Customer Service/Technical Support Tier 1 Netflix - Salt Lake City, UT December 2015 to May 2016 Assist with troubleshooting network equipment over the phone with customers. Help answer questions about bills and different payment  options with customers. Provide excellent customer service and assist  customers in a fast and friendly manner. Go over different tech specs of a  wide range of different hardware with customers so they know what  their options are when it comes to streaming options. Team Lead/ System Expert Dialog-Direct - American Fork, UT December 2014 to June 2015 Made spreadsheets in Excel to track performance of agents on my team.  Coached agents on how to up-sell and overcome objections that  customers may have had. Helped with any technical issues agents and other management had when it came to PCs, VoIP phones, email,  ticketing software, etc. Helped come up with different incentive ideas for agents to boost morale.    ? Education GED Utah Valley University 2012 to 2012 Skills TCP/IP (3 years), G Suite Administration (1 year), Ubiquiti Hardware (2 years), Customer Service (6 years), Computer Hardware (3 years), Network Administration (2 years), Data Management (2 years), Troubleshooting (5 years), VOIP (3 years), Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio (2 years), Apps Script (1 year), Microsoft Office (2 years), Virtualization (1 year), AWS (1 year), End User Support (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/andrew-woodward-40a960119 Additional Information CompTIA A+, Network+, and Security+ trained.  Computer hardware troubleshooting.  Software troubleshooting.  Technical Support.  Customer Service.  Windows/MacOS/Linux experience.  Multi-tasking.  Rubik's Cube Solving Skills.