Corporate Accountant I Corporate Accountant I Corporate Accountant I - Eden Housing, Inc San Ramon, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Corporate Accountant I Eden Housing, Inc - Hayward, CA August 2018 to Present - Assists in the month-end closing procedures and financial reporting.  - Provide balance sheet and income statement analysis.  - Post journal entries and perform account reconciliation; intercompany.  - Monthly bank reconciliations.  - Manage credit card accounts and reconcile petty cash. Corporate Junior Accountant Eden Housing, Inc - Hayward, CA August 2017 to August 2018 - Responsible for global expense allocations from general invoices to payroll and benefits.  - Prepare deposits and cash receipts for all corporate cash accounts, transfer money between accounts.  - Prepare bank reconciliations for all corporate accounts and credit cards.  - Generate monthly intercompany billings, analyze IC balances, record IC transactions from affiliate partners. Accounts Payable Clerk Eden Housing, Inc - Hayward, CA December 2016 to August 2017 - Process/Review invoices and reimbursements using Yardi and Payscan.  - Process payments; ACH/EFT, wires, checks.  - Follow up on NSF payments and perform stop payments on checks.  - Enter and pay properties monthly mortgages and taxes.  - Answer vendor inquiries and investigate if there are issues; reconcile vendor accounts. Senior Accounts Payable Specialist & Systems Administrator Access Information Management - Livermore, CA January 2016 to December 2016 - Code and enter invoices to the correct general ledger account using Great Plains.  - Calculate monthly accruals for recurring vendors and re-class journal entries to the correct accounts.  - Process expense reports using Concur.  - Create PO's for property managers using ReqLogic.  - Create accounts in File Bridge, link each user to their accounts, and assign permissions. Accounting Intern Eden Housing, Inc - Hayward, CA July 2015 to October 2015 Education Bachelor's in Accounting California State University Long Beach - Long Beach, CA May 2015 A.A. in Mathematics Diablo Valley College - Pleasant Hill, CA May 2012 Additional Information - Proficient in Microsoft Office products including Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Access, and Outlook.  - CPA Candidate.