Help Center Consultant Help Center Consultant Help Center Consultant - Carnegie Mellon University Bethel Park, PA Work Experience Help Center Consultant Carnegie Mellon University - Pittsburgh, PA August 2018 to Present • Diagnosing, solving problems, and providing solutions for end user related systems. Supporting more than 13,900 students and nearly 6,000 faculty and staff.  • Support of desktop operating systems including Windows, Linux, and MacOS  • Document and track all incidents in an incident management system such as ServiceNow.  • Install, configure and troubleshoot applications including a variety of email clients, office applications, and academic software.  • Participate in the development and maintenance of support documentation and training materials for a wide variety of audiences including students, faculty and staff.  • Collaborate with other teams across Computing Services and CMU, to resolve issues and address concerns.  • Responsible for front line support of users of desktops, networks and IT resources  • Managing, training, and assisting student employees with resolving technical issues. Ensuring that established processes and procedures are followed.  • Researching, evaluating and recommending tools, processes, programs and techniques to provide improved technical support.  • Resolved over 2000 work incidents. IT Support I-TEK Medical - Saint Paul, MN June 2014 to August 2014 • Created and managed a new data system to hold company's product information.  • Organized data for over 300 different product forms using Filemaker Pro.  • Switched the outdated filing system from paper documents to digital documents for easy access across shared network drives. Client Systems Administrator Minot Air Force Base - Minot, ND May 2011 to December 2013 • Provided key network migration support of over 6,000 workstations, finished network migration 30 days ahead of schedule. Awarded Air Force Achievement Medal.  • Planed, scheduled, and implement software installation associated with Information Technology systems.  • Installed 400 new printers and scanners across Minot AFB.  • Emergency War Operations team member; installed 45 workstations, 15 Cisco Catalyst 3560-C Switches, 200ft fiber optic and CAT 6 cable.  • Provided 174 hours of video teleconference support, saving the Air Force $20,000 in travel expenses while increasing productivity by 15%.  • Maintained Active Directory database for all 6,000 network users at Minot AFB. Ensured group policies were set according to Air Force standards.  Asset Management Client Systems Technician Asset Management Minot Air Force Base October 2012 to May 2013 • Provided in depth account and inventory training for 147 people.  • Accountable for 24 million dollars worth of computer equipment, maintained 100% accountability rate.  • Replaced outdated equipment, 200 printers and 1200 computers. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Management Information Systems West Virginia University May 2018