NET Developer/BI Report Developer NET Developer/BI Report Developer NET Developer/BI Report Developer - MAAX Spas Mesa, AZ Work Experience NET Developer/BI Report Developer MAAX Spas November 2018 to Present As a full stack developer at MAAX Spas I have been exposed to many facets of the business and have been able to learn an array of business logics. I maintain and create web-based applications which are front facing as well as internal-only. I oversee the full web stack from the UI layer all the way down to the database layer. BI reporting plays a major role in this position as well. I maintained and developed reports in SSRS and Crystal Reports, both backed by a SQL database. The last of my main focus was on integration between our ERP system with other and other web-based applications.    • -ASP.NET/MVC  • -Entity Framework  • -LINQ to SQL  • -C#  • -HTML and CSS (bootstrap)  • -JavaScript (ajax and jQuery)  • -SQL (views, jobs, stored procedures, maintenance and architecture)  • -Microsoft Dynamics Great Plains  • -Azure Information Systems Administrator MAAX Spas August 2018 to November 2018 I had the responsibility of supporting day to day operation for a wide range of technologies and end user support(Help Desk) for local and remote users.    • Active Directory  • GPO management  • Ticketing system reorganization  • MDM - Microsoft Intune  • Antispam - mime cast  • Scripting - PowerShell  • SQL - training Help Desk Technician II Dexcom, Inc September 2017 to July 2018 I have the responsibility of ticket triage, escalation and customer support via phone or email for an international organization. Tickets we are responsible for include application support and administration, hardware and software break fixes and mobile devices.    • Lead Service Desk Trainer  ? Created and implemented training structure/program  • Delegation structure improvements  • Ticket delegation  • Ticket firefighter  • Escalation point for service desk and third-party support (LTI)  • KCS article knowledge base  • ServiceNow Wallboard and visual task board customization/reports  • VOIP phone creation & configuration - Cisco  • IOS and MacOS Training/experience  • Calabrio configurations  • Test center for Ring Central  • License Administration  • HDI Service desk training Programmer I Customer Service ZetX Advancing Justice June 2017 to August 2017 I maintained the responsibility of ticket triage, customer support via phone or email, making updates to our systems, create/manage a database for incidents, and generating how-to material for our end users. I updated our systems with added organizations, users, and their proprietary forms. I was also responsible for CDR analyzation to determine carrier or modifications. JR. Systems Administrator Horizon Health & Wellness September 2016 to June 2017 I had the responsibility of installation, upgrade, repair, and monitoring of the hardware/software across Southern Arizona. Providing software along with internet training to the staff so they can perform their daily tasks. Training and supporting staff with the use of company mobile devices, hotspots, and laptops for field use. Take and respond to daily calls, emails and technical assistance through a ticket system to track work flow. I also partake with an on call rotation once a month for a week to provide after hours support for our 24 hours / 7 days a week facility operations.  • Build end user accounts with workstations/laptops for Microsoft Active Directory, Exchange, Claimtrack, E-Clinicalworks, printers access and folder shares keeping in my the specific permissions needed for each in compliance with HIPPA and Cenpatico's security requirements.  • Troubleshoot with resolving any server, network, printer, Shoretel phone or workstation error by the means of Remote Desktop, Windows Remote Assistance (MSRA), Zoom, or GoTo Meeting.  • Setup Wireless MiFi, VPN and Bright Blue building security access cards for employees at our several locations across Southern Arizona  • Assist with any network/telephony cabling that may need to be done at any of our locations from wire management, terminating CAT5 cabling or toning out ports that may be needed.  • Managed and coordinated a project including 200 mobile devices and various locations across the state of Arizona.  • Manage company mobile devices from the carriers Sprint, Verizon, T-mobile.  • Assisted in coordinating a project including 150 end users, and 300 exchange accounts.  • Assisted in coordinating a project including 150 end users and AD accounts. Equipment Assistant Western Illinois University Athletics May 2014 to May 2016 My duties involved in maintaining and tracking the inventory of football equipment for the athletic department. The information was tracked using a database management system which allowed for easy reporting of the inventory. This allow me to report on what was available, how old the equipment was and what needed to be purchased.  • Train new staff of the use and reporting of the inventory management database.  • Was also involved with the inventory management for the basketball team performing the same duties as with the football team  • Always proficient in what needed to be done and what was asked of me involving the inventory management. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems Western Illinois University May 2016 Skills .Net, C#, Jquery, MVC, Javascript, Sql Dba, Sql Server