Front of House Staff Front of House Staff Chicago, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front of House Staff Cafe Vienna November 2014 to Present Increased daily sales averages and repeat visits through upselling techniques and customer relationships.  Trained new employees in all aspects of table, counter, cash register, catering, and beverage service.  Added over 400 dollars per week from new sales by expanding catering operation to include daily Fooda Select orders. Dishwasher/Maintenance Eduardo's Enoteca August 2014 to October 2014 Washed, sanitized, and stored dishes, utensils, silverware, and other cookware.  Developed an in-depth knowledge of dishwashing equipment, best practices, and health regulations.  Worked in a fast-paced food service environment. Senior IT Systems Administrator Deep Springs College October 2012 to June 2014 Was responsible for running all IT systems of a small, isolated college.  Improved conditions relating to the use of a satellite uplink and increased campus WiFi coverage 400%.  Compiled thorough manuals for posterity and trained a successor in networking basics. Student Laborer Deep Springs College July 2012 to June 2014 Performed a variety of tasks, including cleaning, o ce tasks, gardening, irrigation, baking, butchering, and milking cows.  Organized 28 student laborers' weekly activities as interim Labor Commissioner.  Did specialized, unscheduled work as a General Labor crewmember. Communications Committee Chair Deep Springs College May 2013 to May 2014 Organized a committee of 7 members to run a college's public relations, including alumni and prospective student relations.  Increased college's applicant pool by 25% through recruitment e orts and media presence.  Coached other students in the use of programs including Adobe Creative Suite, HTML/CSS, WordPress, and LTEX. A Intern Deep Springs College June 2013 to August 2013 Did statistical analyses of new tissue data in R to reassess occupational safety rules for low-dose radiation. Education B.A. Yale University 2015 to 2017 A.A. in Liberal Arts Deep Springs College 2014 Lincoln Park High School 2012