Job Seeker Hamilton Square, NJ ; I am seeking a new and challenging position that will allow me to utilize my skills, knowledge and personal attributes accumulated throughout my life with a company which values core competencies and can provide opportunities for self-development.    Key Courses:    Computer Architecture, Networking Applications, Medical Informatics Technologies, Numerical Computation, Intro to Data Analytics Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Bessemer Trust, Woodbridge August 2018 to December 2018 • Developing a working knowledge of Linedata Longview, a global trading system, to successfully provide specialized support to business users.  • Working closely with ECM and CRM platforms to secure and manage confidential data.  • Updating and maintaining modern RDBMS databases such as MS-SQL Server and Oracle.  • Retrieving financial data using SQL and creating MS Excel reports according to business requirements.  • Understanding the architecture and functionality of various business applications in order to assist the Information Security team with internal auditing.  • Rebranding and standardizing client reports using IBM Cognos Report Studio. Systems Administrator Quality Inn, Princeton January 2015 to August 2018 • Increased boot times by 70% for front end computers.  • Create and maintain SQL queries, stored procedures and triggers to extract and update data to analyze.    • Led the design, integration and implementation of upgraded security cameras and monitoring systems which assisted local authorities apprehend theft culprits twice.  • Ensured the proper and efficient use of available technologies to deliver the best results.  • Advised and ordered appropriate hardware and software upgrades to maximize efficiency.  • Troubleshooted across platforms, issues with connecting to the hotel network. Education Bachelors in Electrical & Computer Engineering in Electrical & Computer Engineering New Jersey Institute of Technology May 2018 Skills C+ (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), SQL (3 years), Salesforce (1 year), Cognos (1 year), Oracle (1 year), microsoft sql server (1 year), Excel (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    C++, Java, HTML, CSS, Oracle SQL, Microsoft Server SQL, Matlab, jQuery, Advanced Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Office Suite, Cognos, Jira Desk    Soft Skills    Problem Solving, Relationship Building, Interpersonal Skills, Public Speaking, Critical Observation, Adaptability, Conflict Resolution • Teamwork • Self-Motivated