Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Naples, FL Seasoned, proactive, reliable, individual with strong IT background providing hands on leadership and supervision. 20 plus years of professional experience working for both large and small corporations with extensive exposure to various systems and technologies. Solid work history, including people management, project management,technical support and computer operations. Detail oriented individual that continues to acquire skills each day that are translatable to a wide variety of positions and industries. Work Experience Systems Administrator GULFSHORE INSURANCE - Naples, FL April 2014 to Present • Responsibilities include planning, project management, implementation and   maintenance in a Microsoft Windows environment.  • System administration and support including Active Directory, Group Policy, ft   Exchange, Remote Desktop Services, Citrix VDI, Hyper-V, SharePoint, & SQL.  • Design and implement solutions for OS deployments, patch management and   software packages utilizing Microsoft Deployment Toolkit.  • Configuration and administration of Windows Server Update Services (WSUS).  • Vertafore ImageRight administration, support and workflow creation.    RAPHAEL & ASSOCIATES, Rutherford, NJ  IT Director  7/2007 – 04/2014    • Develop and monitor all IT projects from start to completion.  • Investigate and Implement new ways to automate tasks to improve efficiency.  • Seek opportunities to continuously build, grow and enhance team and business  partner relationships.  • Implementation and administration of hosted VOIP phone system.  • Escalated IT Support for all local & remote employees.  • Identification and resolution of customer and team related issues.  • Design and development of company Intranet page.    Achievements:  • Delivered or exceeded monthly service level agreements.  • Implemented, trained, documented new 'paperless system' ImageRight.  • Built strong relationships with clients and vendors to support the company's   ongoing technology efforts.  • Converted all physical server hardware to a virtual server environment.  • Managed numerous "time saving" projects involving the automation of   writeable PDF forms, including the generation of an automated bordereau for   the accounting department.  • Initiated the development of a new mobile application for iPhone and Android   platforms, which streamlined the report generation function.    IBM GLOBAL SERVICES, Parsippany, NJ  Team Leader - Deskside Services  2/02 – 7/2007  • Managed simultaneous projects including migrations, moves, additions and   changes.  • Developed project schedules, sets time frames and priorities, and assigned   tasks.  • Supervised and monitored a staff of over 25 technical professionals.  • Ensured IBM meets or exceeds contract service level agreements.  • Primary liaison between Deskside Services and customer.  • Tracked quality service measurements and recommended/institute   improvements.  • Participated in Change Management review to ensure minimal customer   impact.    CENDANT CORPORATION, Parsippany, NJ  Team Lead - Desktop Support & LAN Services  6/97 – 2/02    • Provided Executive Support Services.  • Evaluated, maintained, modified and documented PC applications packages   and d participated in testing and evaluation of new PC packages.  • Monitored project status from start to completion.  • Supervised and monitored performance of Level 2 technical staff.    MARKETSOURCE CORPORATION, Cranbury, NJ  System Support Specialist  2/96 – 6/97    • Provided desktop support for all users on a hardware and software basis.  • Setup and configuration of new computer equipment. Education Diploma in Electronic Technology DOVER BUSINESS COLLEGE - Paramus, NJ September 2001 to August 2002 CCNA CISCO NETWORKING ACADEMY - Riverdale, NJ Skills Citrix (3 years), Exchange (8 years), Hyper-V (4 years), Microsoft Sharepoint (3 years), Microsoft Windows (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Software    Microsoft Windows Server, Microsoft WSUS Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Windows Operating Systems, Microsoft HyperV, Microsoft Lync, Microsoft Sharepoint, Microsoft MDT, Microsoft Exchange Server, Microsoft Office, Lync, SharePoint, Adobe Suite, Vertafore ImageRIght, Vertafore Sagitta, VMware, Hyper-V, Saleslogix, Citrix VDI-in-a-Box, Microsoft Dynamics CRM administration, Active Directory, Group Policies, Dell Desktop Authority (DTA).    Hardware    All IBM compatible PC hardware. DELL Laptops, Desktops and Servers, IBM ThinkPad laptops & Desktops, Compaq Proliant & Prosignia Servers, Drive Arrays, CD Towers, Wireless Ethernet, tape drives, Print Servers, Dell EqualLogic SAN, and Dell Sonicwall.