Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Hewlett-Packard Piscataway, NJ IT Infrastructure specialist with hands-on experience in Enterprise Technologies like, Storage Area Network(SAN), Network Attached Storage (NAS), Server Systems, High Performance Computer Clusters, Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity. Work Experience Systems Administrator Hewlett-Packard June 2012 to Present My primary role in this job is to provide support to all the Functionalities of the Fusion clustered File System product X9000 IBRIX with support for features which include:    ? Providing Consultation on the complex HP StoreAll Product Installations.  ? Responsibilities include making the SMB implementation robust and high performance, scalable name space management with dynamic load balancing support in the file system and enabling Active Directory integration.  ? Carrying out system Integration for HP StoreAll products at customer sites.  ? Extensive experience working with HP hardware likes HP Proliant servers DL 360, 380 & 580 G4, G5 & G6 servers and also Blade Centers like C3000 & C7000.  ? Performance monitoring and Tuning using top, prstat, sar, vmstat, ps, iostat etc.  ? Troubleshooting and resolving of problems related to hardware, operating systems, third party applications and scripts  ? Troubleshooting of Servers.  ? Producing Implementation Documentation.  ? Installation and support of Linux operating system, Storage and Virtualization.  ? Performed Server and Storage hardware cabling and labeling on different platforms such as X9300, X9320, X9720 & X9730.  ? Experience installing Linux servers using Kickstart and Jumpstart.  ? Assisting in User accepted Documentation.  ? Providing remote support for Product Installers  ? Provide operational management, technical maintenance, troubleshooting, and tuning of storage architecture and technologies.  ? Planned and deployed NAS, encompassing blueprinting and modeling. Provided 24/7 support and coordinated with third-party vendors to ensure successful implementation.  ? Assessed backup environment and proposed recovery strategy to provide complete data protection both on-site and at off-site data warehouse.  ? Merged small backup environments and implemented encryption technology for enhanced security.  ? Research and develop designs, including strategic roadmap for all infrastructure SAN/storage devices and associated software and tools, ensuring enterprise-wide architecture consistency. Education Master of Science International Technological University - San Jose, CA January 2011 to May 2012 Additional Information Skills:    ? Deep knowledge of CIFS/SMB protocol  ? Understanding of Active Directory protocols  ? Ability to work across the various layers - File Systems, Management layer, Protocol layer  ? Strong analytical and debugging skills  ? Can-do attitude and flexibility in taking on various assignments to make the company successful  ? Work well with other strong developers  ? Strong communications skills    Software Skills    ? Microsoft Office tools namely Access, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint and Word  ? MS Visio, MS Excel, Knowledge in MS Project  ? XML/HTML, C++, C#, VisualBasic.    ? SQL, Database Concepts    Technical Expertise:    Server Consolidation, Storage Consolidation, Disaster Recovery, Backup, Blade Servers Proficient in all LINUX and Windows platforms    Specialist in HP Network Attached Storage(NAS) Solution X9000 Comprising X9300, X9320, X9720 & X9730 which deals with the Hardware like HP c7000 Blade enclosures with BL 460s (G6, G7) with Storage Enclosure for X9730 & X9720, and DL 380s (G6, G7) with Storage arrays for X9320 and X9300 Gateway.