Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Prairie Grove, AR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator PGSD EAST Programs - Prairie Grove, AR January 2015 to Present The System Administrator ensures that system hardware, operating systems, software systems, and related procedures adhere to organizational values, enabling staff, volunteers, and Partners. Education High school or equivalent in General Education Prairie Grove High School - Prairie Grove, AR August 2005 to May 2019 Skills Creative problem solver, Exceptional communication skills, MS Windows proficient, Quick learner, Strong client relations, Managing multiple projects simultaneously, Team player, Documentation, Working with shifting priorities, Clear communication skills, Leadership experience, Critical thinking, Project planning, Attention to detail, Filing and data archiving Links https://www.goodwall.org/devin-pruitt https://www.linkedin.com/in/devinpruitt94/ Awards Prairie Grove Middle School EAST Systems Administrator Award 2015-05 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Office Specialist April 2016 to Present A Microsoft Office Specialist (MOS) is a professional who has completed a series of certification exams to demonstrate high proficiency in Microsoft's Office software suite. Individuals who work in positions where Office programs are used frequently, such as administrative assisting or data entry, benefit from MOS certification. The certification examination is available for Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access and Outlook. No formal education is required; MOS certification is available at the specialist, expert and master level. Apple Teacher 2016 December 2016 to Present Apple Teachers are recognised for their understanding of how to use Apple products  for teaching and learning. They have proven knowledge of using iPad, Mac, and built-in apps to enhance productivity and inspire creativity in their classrooms and beyond. Apple honours their achievement and commitment to creating the very best learning experiences for students. Mental Health Studies - Suicide, Violent Behavior and Substance Abuse December 2016 to Present Care for mental health is becoming an increasingly important aspect of health provision in health systems around the world. In this course, the learner is introduced to areas of mental health where the activities, actions or habits of patients endanger their health, welfare and often impact the environment and society they are part of. The course introduces the learner to suicide and preventative treatment measures, how to manage violent patients and outlines the complex area of substance abuse. Additional Information Ambitious High School student with excellent research, time management, communication and problem-solving skills. Im very well organised and self-driven to the point that I won't sleep unless I know for sure that a project gets done. My objectives would be to help anyone in need of assistance and provide them with knowledge and techniques I've gained help them with further problems in the future.