Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> California, MD • Over 2 Years of eexperience as System Administrator for Windows/Unix Operating  System.  • Involved in Toll Applications installation and connectivity to Database.  • Successfully designed and implemented Microsoft Windows Server 2008R2 and  Microsoft SQL Server 2016-2008.  • Installed and configured IBM X3650 M4 SERVER for Tolling Operations.  • In Depth Knowledge of T-SQL (DDL, DML, and DCL).Experience in Database  administration activities for DB Security(creating users, roles and assigning  permission and maintain server level DDL Triggers)  • Good exposure to Database and Networking protocols.  • Excellent Team Player with good communication and interpersonal skills.  • Comfortable working with various Industry Leading Operating Systems (Windows /  Unix ). Work Experience Systems Administrator Metro Infrasys Pvt.Ltd May 2013 to May 2015 Company:Metro Infrasys Pvt.Ltd  Project:HKR  Role: System Administrator    Job Responsibilities:    • Installation and maintenance of all systems within a clients digital environment.  • Windows server 2008R2 installation, troubleshooting and automation.  • Producing documentation on operational, system and user procedures & guidelines.  • Building, configuration and troubleshooting of server and desktop hardware.  • Providing advice on selection and purchase of IT equipment.  • Maintaining maximum availability of supported services for users.  • Obtaining quotes for supply of goods and services from suppliers.  • Designing, implementing and managing Active Directory.  • Monitoring the progress of third-party maintenance contract suppliers, license  renewal tracking.  • Ensuring that support calls are logged and handled effectively and efficiently.  • Responsible for disaster recovery, closing security loopholes and access levels.  • Ensure adequate antivirus protection & solutions are maintained and updated.  • Identify and recommending improvements for E-mail applications & Web-page  Development.  • Responsible for maintaining the network & troubleshooting the network related  issues.  • Monitor ticketing system for new tickets and work items. Update existing tickets.  Maintain hardware inventory control in ticketing system.  • Troubleshoot server hardware and software issues and escalate accordingly.    Environment: Windows 2008, SQL Server 2005, Network Connectivity, Reporting Modules,  teamviewer, Hardware tools. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Northwestern Polytechnic University August 2015 to December 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Nehru Technological University Kakinada(SVIET College) INDIA 2009 to 2013 Skills SQL (2 years), windows/Linux (2 years), Networking (2 years), AWS, C/C++/Java Additional Information Technical Skills:  CORE COMPENTENCIES: Database & System Administration, Network, RAID, SAN.    Platforms: Microsoft Windows 2008 R2/2012 server, UNIX.  Hardware: Pentium based server, Dual & Quad Processors.  Networking: TCP/IP, Ethernet, VPN.  Languages: T-SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting and JAVA.  Databases: SQL Server 2016-2008  IDE: Eclipse, Net Beans  Virtual: VMware  Cloud: Amazon AWS