Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Seasoned IT Professional Saint Albans Bay, VT An experienced and reliable IT professional, with a strong background in systems, network and security administration across multiple and varied IT infrastructures, including Linux, Windows, UNIX and OpenVMS. Work Experience Systems Administrator IBM - Williston, VT June 2011 to Present June 2011 - Present  RHCSA in-progress  RHCE planned IBM High Performance Computing with Red Hat Enterprise Linux and cluster installation, configuration, maintenance and troubleshooting.    Cisco and Broadcom network infrastructure - virtualized storage and network configuration - IBM-AIX support and troubleshooting - AFS  Outstanding communication and Security Administrator - CSM and XCAT administration.    Analytical Manufacturing cluster support and systems, network and security  administration for approximately 2,000 nodes and 120TB of data  Troubleshooting across multiple sites in Vermont and New York. ITAR and security clearances current.  Teaching    GE Healthcare - South Burlington, VT Education BA in English Literature Excelsior College (formerly Regents College) University of the State of New York - Albany, NY 1985 to 1989 Skills Operating systems administration, network administration, Windows, Linux, UNIX, OpenVMS, documentation Links http://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=61159689&trk=nav_responsive_tab_profile Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant September 1971 to March 1975 Security Police, Special Operations, Honorable Discharge Additional Information EXPERTISE AREAS PERSONAL SUMMARY    System Administration An experienced and innovative professional systems administrator with    Server Configuration extensive responsibilities and accomplishments across multiple hardware    Network Operations and software infrastructures. Demonstrated integrity and reliability in    Security diverse environments and proven work ethic in mission-critical scenarios.    Linux and Open Source Looking for a suitable systems administrator position, preferably in Linux    Technical Support and Open Source with an innovative and ambitious organization that offers    Virtualization room for progression.    Documentation and Training    KEY SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES    RHEL and AIX server operating systems infrastructures.    IBM cluster design, configuration and administration.    Network operations and architectures.    Microsoft Client-Server infrastructures.    Extensive hardware configuration and technical support    Scripting with DCL, bash, vim and PowerShell    Documentation and training/teaching.