Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Fort Polk, LA Professional leader with four years experience in the field of Information Technology. Created active directory accounts for new people and assisted them in the process of obtaining an account. Managed and maintained 400 plus computer accounts, keeping each of the accounts up to date and in compliance with the rules and policies of the installation. Configured switches to provide Internet connection overseas. Performed troubleshooting process to resolve hardware and software issues every day. Bilingual in Tagalog (Philippine Language) and English. Relevant skills include:    • Maintaining a Website  • SharePoint and Shared drive expertise  • Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, and PowerPoint) skills  • Managing Active Directory Accounts  • Programming Switches  • Installing Hardware and Software  • Troubleshooting and Problem Solving  • Bilingual in Tagalog and English  • Punctual  • Hard-worker  • Customer care Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator US Army Active Duty/ Army Reserve - Fort Polk, LA December 2012 to Present Desktop Technician  • Updated and installed the latest programs to computers to remain in compliance with the network.  • Collaborated with other co-workers to finish day-to-day task such as account application paper works.  • Assisted customers with their Internet connection issues and other computer related problems.  • Supervised newly trained members to ensure accomplishment of tasks.  • Built good customer relationships.  • Configured and maintained network switches.  • Conducted monthly inspections of Active Directory accounts. Education Ashford University August 2017 Skills Active Directory (4 years), Sharepoint Designer (4 years), Dreamweaver (4 years), Switches (4 years), Troubleshooting (4 years), Microsoft Office (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Security+ September 2019 Network+ September 2019