Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Edgewater, MD To obtain a challenging position that provides an opportunity for growth and the ability to expand my skill set and provide positive results for an organization Work Experience Systems Administrator US Army Corps of Engineers - Baltimore, MD February 2011 to March 2014 Systems Administrator  ACE-IT, Baltimore District, USACE  Managed and streamlined backup processes to standardize them across the district. Consolidated and virtualized headquarters and field site servers. Upgraded multiple servers to Windows 2008 R2. Created AD accounts and eliminated outdated and/or unnecessary accounts. Converted Resource OU Exchange accounts to appropriate types (Room, Shared, etc.) Created virtualized Windows Media Server to allow for media streaming    Create/maintain server accounts according to ACE-IT policies. Manage/verify IAVA updates on District-wide servers.  Monitor server and network health throughout the district.  Maintain all Network account changes  Create/maintain Exchange accounts  Provide support and assistance to other District SA's and PC Techs.    LAN Support Technical Mentor  Chevy Chase Bank/Capital One, Laurel, MD  Provided training and advanced technical support to the LAN Support staff that is responsible for supporting a user base of approximately 5000 users. We supported all desktop applications (MS Office 97, 2000, XP, Outlook, etc) and operating systems (NT, OS/2, XP, Windows 2000, 2003 and 2008 server) deployed in the bank. This involved, but is not limited to, responding to user problem reports, maintaining server health, supporting server backups, participating in Disaster Recovery testing and tracking/resolving persistent and pervasive problems.    Participated in various projects throughout the bank including, server upgrades to Windows 2008 for the branch network, re-IP'ing the branch network, upgrading workstations, and application development QA.    Managed staff of 10 including scheduling, workflow optimization, and performance review and enhancement.    LAN Support Specialist  Chevy Chase Bank, Laurel, MD  Provided second tier support to user base of over 5000 users. Troubleshoot and provide solutions for issues with operating systems (NT and OS/2), applications (Office, Smartsuite, etc.) and hardware (workstations, servers, and printers). Provide support for network servers, especially during daily backups.    Scheduling & Forecasting Manager  Chevy Chase Bank, Laurel, MD  Forecasted call volume for 4 main and 3 auxiliary ACD queues for the Bank's Customer Contact Center. Determined staffing requirements on a weekly basis. Scheduled existing staff of approximately 120 reps based on developed call forecast and staffing requirements. Provided cost control to department by improving forecast accuracy and staffing efficiency. Helped determine hiring needs to meet strategic goals of Service Levels, Abandon Rates, and Speed of Answer. Provided limited technical support to reps and management staff. This included OS trouble-shooting and application installation.    Project Coordinator  Cellular One, Greenbelt, MD  Assisted our Director of General Business in overseeing projects company-wide. Headed project to redesign the 800 # menu selections, which involved extensive interaction with Sales, Customer Services, MIS, and others. Developed a new Corporate Agreement designed to allow separate corporate billing while reducing Cellular One's risk exposure for bad debt. Created company-wide policy and procedure manual. Provided analysis of market-wide marketing survey completed by an outside firm. Created and implemented a plan to reduce outstanding credit balances on customers' canceled accounts. Education BA in Business Lafayette College - Easton, PA 1987 to 1990 Skills MCSE, Security+, VMWare, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2003, Active Directory, Exchange, Microsoft Office, Server Support, Desktop Support; Windows Administration Additional Information Skills  Server Support, System Administrator, Active Directory, Microsoft Office Products, Windows 2000, 2003 and 2008 server, Exchange 2010 and Exchange 2010 Powershell, NT 4.0 Server & Workstation, Symantec Backup Exec 2010, Netapp, VMWare, TCP/IP, Microsoft SCOM, Windows XP, Windows SCCM, Desktop Support