Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Network Enterprise Center Fort Huachuca, AZ Work Experience Systems Administrator Network Enterprise Center - Fort Huachuca, AZ November 2010 to Present NEC)  2133 Cushing Street  Building 61801, Room 1614  Fort Huachuca, AZ 85613 United States    11/2010 - Present  Hours per week: 40  Series: 2210 Pay Plan: GS Grade: 12    Systems Administrator (This is a federal job)  Serves as an Electronic Messaging Administrator in the analysis, design, development, maintenance, modification/upgrade, administration, operation and configuration of integrated electronic mail servers and mail components, peripheral devices (ie., tape drives, backup solutions such as COMVAULT, networked printers, etc.) and telecommunications switches, hubs, routers, etc. Identifies, analyzes, diagnoses and resolves complex and difficult operational and networking problems involving the interrelationships of devices between end users and servers. Administers the day-to-day operations and maintenance in a complex environment that requires extensive knowledge, organizational skills and coordination. Develops and maintains security procedures to safeguard against unauthorized intrusions into electronic mail or support servers. Ensures availability and factuality of servers via local and wide area networks.    Oversees and manages the full life cycle software development, to include conceptual analysis, requirements analysis, design, implementation, deployment and maintenance of various web site, team sites or web parts.  Prepares technical specifications and economic justification to support acquisition of software, hardware, and contractor support required.  Consults one-on-one with operational customers and senior managers to evaluate user requirements and translating requirements into Web based mission support software using standards based Commercial off-the-Shelf (COTS) software tools to code, update, and test complex Web based applications for the Fort Huachuca Network Enterprise Center.    Serves as the Share Point Systems Administrator responsible for managing all aspects for Share Point Administration architecture.    Trouble-shoots Share Point application issues and assists business users in the creation and management of their team sites. Leads other team members with Share Point support. Works with other IT team members and business customers on Share Point projects. Assists in developing the strategy for optimal use of Share Point and other collaborative tools within the organization.    Provides day-to-day administration and support for Microsoft Office Share Point Server and Windows Share Point Services for Extranets and Intranet environments. Oversees the Microsoft Office Share Point Server infrastructure and takes a leading role in implementing Share Point across the entire organization. Participates in planning and execution of tasks related to the evaluation of new Share Point based initiatives.    General Dynamics IT  550 Cibeque Street  BLDG 61730, Room 234  Fort Huachuca, AZ 85613 United States    09/2008 - 11/2010  Salary: 68,500.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 40    Senior Training Specialist  Supervisor: Terrance Fostgreen (5205330705)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    Senior Training Specialist research develops, implement, test and review an organization's information security in order to protect information and prevent unauthorized access. Worked to maintain the system's security and accreditation status. Implemented site procedures for marking, handling, controlling, removing, transporting, sanitizing, reusing, and destroying media/equipment containing classified information. Verifies users' access requests are approved; controls users' access.•Obtains one-time approval on Cyber Security Program (CSP) approved workstations or servers for all data written to or read from external media.    Trouble-shoots Share Point application issues and assists business users in the creation and management of their team sites. Leads other team members with Share Point support. Works with other IT team members and business customers on Share Point projects. Assists in developing the strategy for optimal use of Share Point and other collaborative tools within the organization.    General Dynamics  2133 Cushing Street  Building 61801, Room 1646  Fort Huachuca, AZ 85613 United States    05/2007 - 09/2008  Salary: 58,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 40    System Engineer  Supervisor: Tom Lowman (5205380776)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    Manages the day-to-day operations of the servers by monitoring system performance, configuration, maintenance and repair. Ensures that records of system downtime and equipment inventory are properly maintained. Applies revisions to host system firmware and software. Works with vendors to assist support activities (as needed). Develops new system and application implementation plans, custom scripts and testing procedures to ensure operational reliability. Trains technical staff in how to use new software and hardware developed and/or acquired. Performs troubleshooting as required. As such, leads problem-solving efforts often involving tenant organizations.    General Dynamics  2133 Cushing Street  Building 61801, Room 1530  Fort Huachuca, AZ 85613 United States    05/2006 - 05/2007  Salary: 43,500.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 40    Microsoft Exchange Administrator  Performs complex network and server administration functions, including configuring, installing, repairing, maintaining, and upgrading hardware and operating systems.Manages enterprise backup/restore of critical business systems/services and performs periodic audits and restore testing. Researches and evaluates network and server hardware and software options and upgrades including updates, patches, and service packs, as needed.    Works with other IT team members and business customers on Share Point projects. Assists in developing the strategy for optimal use of Share Point and other collaborative tools within the organization. Education Certificate Cochise College Sierra Vista - Sierra Vista, AZ October 2012 Certificate in Network Administration University of Arizona Sierra Vista - Sierra Vista, AZ January 2012 Certificate in Management Course CFLCC Signal University Camp Arifjan July 2005 to 2011 Certificate in Network Administration Cochise College Sierra Vista - Sierra Vista, AZ 2007 to December 2010 Certificate in Network Administration Cochise College November 2010 Holland High School Holland - Holland, TX July 2004