Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Professional Irvine, CA To obtain a technical position with an innovative company that will utilize my technical and communication skills effectively while offering the opportunity for personal and professional growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Douglas Elliman - Beverly Hills, CA November 2016 to March 2017 •Windows Exchange Server and Office 365 mail administration  •Account creation and administration, group policy development in Active Directory  •Generating and operating ticketing system Service Now  •Documenting and reporting IT inventory for compliance.  •Application management for companies Smartsheet, Sales Force, LastPass, Office 365, MLS, Yardi, and Intranet sites.  •Telecom phone distribution and provisioning of all agents and employees  •Tier II troubleshooting on hardware and software for both Mac and PC.  •Optimize Cisco Meraki Routers and Cisco Switches, configuring and reconfiguring IPsec, creating VPN tunnels, troubleshooting network problems and outages. Systems Administrator Ajinomoto Windsor, Inc. - Ontario, CA May 2016 to September 2016 • Administered Active Directory and Group Policies in a 2,000 user environment.  • Updating and deploying Windows Server software and applications.  • Giving security access in Windows Exchange server and Active Directory company wide, configuring and administrating accounts for Live Office, Office 365, Lync phone systems and corporate Verizon account.  • Assigning and completing all Tier I and Tier II tickets using Track-IT ticketing system, documenting steps of completion.  • Computer deployment, image creation via Microsoft IDC, mail out computer once completed and placed in inventory software.  • SCCM administration, troubleshooting servers, printers, and DHCP. Systems Administrator Sotheby's International Realty - Newport Beach, CA December 2015 to May 2016 • Accomplished financial objectives by forecasting requirements, preparing an annual budget, analyzing variances, initiating corrective action.  • Google Apps for Work administrating, monitoring email activity, email creation/deletion, setting up whitelist/blacklist IP Address.  • Moderating email postings/messages to corporate groups, setting up email filters, monitor suspicious activity, email data transferring.  • Maintains staff by recruiting, selecting, orienting, and training employees, maintaining a safe and secure work environment, developing personal growth opportunities.  • Organize IT meetings, weekly status updates, documentation of known issues with preparation of completion.  • Phone configuration with FreePBX platform, managing asterisk VoIP, troubleshooting, setting up SIP's, DID configurations, extension and voicemail setup.  • Corporate deployment of advanced phone operating systems, port routing and VoIP configuration, providing Nextiva platform training.  • Optimize SonicWALL Routers and Dell Switches, configuring and reconfiguring IPsec, creating VPN tunnels, troubleshooting network problems and outages.  • Report to CFO in discussion for upgrading corporate hardware and software, yearly budget for IT Department, satisfactory of our clients.  • Extensive knowledge of TCP/IP, and other network administration protocols, including their vulnerabilities and solutions. Systems Administrator YMCA of Orange County - Tustin, CA December 2014 to December 2015 • Platform administration of corporate Firewall Routers, Switches, VPN configurations, such as Cisco, and Juniper Networks.  Giving permissions and administrating all security access in active directory, windows exhange server and applications in Citrix  • Administrating tickets through Zendesk software for Tier I and Tier II escalation.  • Communicate to internal clients either by phone or email to troubleshoot and follow up on the tickets.  • Install, configure and troubleshoot computer hardware, operating systems, and software.  • Assist with the installation, configuration and ongoing usability of desktop computers, peripheral equipment and software.  • Responsible for troubleshooting Cisco phone/messaging system, Routers and Server issues.  • Perform system administration and configures Active Directory objects.  • Create/delete Active Directory user accounts, remote access VPN accounts and group assignments.  • User support over 3,500 users from 74 different sites with hardware/software issues.  • Provide backup coverage for File Transfer Protocol (FTP), system automation, and Electronic File Transfer (EFT) software and/or hardware systems and support.  • Leverage TeamViewer, and VNC solution, to provide support to remote users.  • Business application support for HCM software products including, Daxko, Ceridian and Citrix.  • Configure domains and new user accounts, website administration utilizing Wordpress.  • Experience with Citrix including Management Reporter, Great Plain and Remote Desktop features.  • Build and maintain Excel documents to track milestones in IT projects and for reporting/transparency to management. Product Expert Microsoft - Mission Viejo, CA July 2013 to December 2014 • Responsible for Scripting/Imaging all computers, phones and MSFT devices in accordance with established standards.  • Responsible for delivering support through telephone, email, and instore visits.  • Configured new computers and rebuild existing computers as necessary to support business requirements.  • Set-up, configure printers, drivers and other peripherals (Move, Add, Change, Termination)  • Perform PC peripheral upgrade and installation (VGA, Sound Card, RAM, Printer)  • Software update and upgrade installation (MS products)  • Arranged for replacement of defective equipment Skills TCP/IP (3 years), VPN (3 years), Network Administration (3 years), Active Directory (4 years), Share Point (3 years), Microsoft Office (7 years), Technical Support (5 years), Exchange Server (4 years), Switches (3 years), Routers (3 years), VOIP (3 years), System Administration (4 years), Symantec Endpoint (4 years), DHCP (3 years), Google Webmaster Tools (3 years), ITIL (2 years), Six Sigma Green Belt (1 year) Certifications/Licenses ACiT June 2016 to Present Apple Certified iOS Technician Service Fundamentals Certified June 2016 to Present SVC-16A ACMT June 2016 to Present Apple Certified Mac Technician ITIL v3 August 2016 to Present ITIL Foundations 2011 Additional Information Skills Summary:  • Over 3 years of progressive experience providing exceptional IT services to clients as Desktop Support/Helpdesk Technician and IT Administrator.  • Working knowledge and hands-on experience with Microsoft technologies (Windows, Active Directory, Exchange 2007, MS Server 2008/2012, MS SQL, SharePoint), VMware (ESX server) and Mac OS.  • Expertize of Network/Security administration, creating VPN tunnels through IPsec, WAN/LAN Network configuration and monitoring.  • Exceptional communication skills with the ability to break down technical information for a non-technical audience.  • Hardware Repair/Software troubleshooting, Cisco phone system/router support.  • Experience using Remote Access Tools (TeamViewer) and ticketing systems such as Remedy and Manage Engine.  • Proficient in Web development, Adobe Creative Suite, CMS (Wordpress), SEO, and SEM.