Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Vienna, VA Seeking an IT position for an opportunity to enhance skills and experiences that will lead to advancement and growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Iron Bow Technologies - Herndon, VA September 2015 to Present JENNIFER NGUYEN  2013 Madrillon Springs Court Vienna, VA 22182  Jennifernguyen009@gmail.com | 571-471-3406    OBJECTIVE  Seeking a Systems Administrator position where I can utilize my experiences and advance in my career.   SKILLS & ABILITIES  OS: Windows 7 & 10, Android, iOS, Mac OS  Active Directory, WebEx, Cisco TMS/Unity/Unified CM Console, VTC, WDS, Cisco IP Phones, Symantec PKI, Cherwell, Remedy, Cisco Jabber Video/IM, Cisco VPN, Dell KACE, McAfee, Badge Systems, Bit9 Parity, O365.    EXPERIENCE  SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR   IRON BOW TECHNOLOGIES - CHANTILLY, VA  SEPTEMBER 2015 – CURRENT    • Setup and support Cisco Jabber and WebEx application (Productivity tools, Meetings, Add-ins in Outlook).  • Create and maintain 450+ user accounts and group memberships in AD. Setting up an Employee template for a new hire, disabling accounts, reset passwords, unlock accounts, add different groups to users ‘member of’.  • Setup and support Video Teleconferencing for 350+ users and 9+ conference rooms for remote and office use. (VTC EX90/EX60 and Cisco Jabber Video-movi).  • Use Remedy and Cherwell ticketing systems to track, maintain, and update 2000+ tickets. Inform user of status and updates on tickets through email, phone, Jabber IM, in person, and/or ticketing system.  • Install and monitor McAfee AV on user’s machine using McAfee EPO. Run Virus scan on machine when alerted.  • Ensure every laptop have the required security software (McAfee, Bit9 Parity, Bitlocker). Enabling BitLocker on every machine by turning on TPM Security.  • Issue email certificates using Comodo and Symantec PKI Manager. Adding users to PKI Auto-enrollment group in AD and pushing Symantec PKI Client to end users   • Configure and assign Cisco IP Phones (CSF and/or desk phones) to users using Cisco Unity and Cisco Unified CM Console.  • Provide software and hardware support to MacBooks ,Dell and HP laptops.  • Monitor 450+ machine and push software/updates using Dell KACE.  • Update MIS Asset Inventory when machines are issued, returned, or new. Listing serial, model, asset tag, and location.   • Enroll and renew Cisco VPN certificate for user on each machine to be able to connect to the internal network.   • Setup and Install printers on the network using a static IP address.  • Imaged 100+ laptops for new hire and laptop refreshes using WDS.   • Windows Server: Remote into server to assign drive/folder rights to users with necessary approvals and assist user with mapping a network drive.  • Register and configure SA101 Android Digital Signage using WebDT Content Manager to push out presentations to different monitors around the office and to different office locations.  • Monitor network traffic on 2 WSUS server to a specific IP address when needed using Putty – grep command. Identify causes of site lagging and communication issues between sites.  • Microsoft O365 - setup Email, Distribution List, Shared Mailboxes, issuing E3/E4 licenses, migrating on-prem accounts to the cloud, setting mailbox permissions.  • Trained 2 new Associate Systems Administrator that joined the team.     IT INTERN   BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY ORGANIZATIONS - WASHINGTON D.C.  MAY 2015 – AUGUST 2015    • Managed 458 devices and equipment inventory within the company using Meraki.   • Installed and managed Anti-virus, Patch Management, and monitored agents. Tested and managed user accounts, wiping devices and removing devices from management network when no longer needed.   • Set up and supported laptops, desktops, IPads, and IPhones for employees; assisted with passcode and login passwords to meet Security Policy. Migrated employees to new devices. Installed cable locks to laptops.  • Created and deployed custom Windows 7 disk image to SSD/HDD using Acronis True Image.  • Provided Systems Administration support to users; assigned network printers, installed applications, scanned computers for Anti-virus, managed computers using Remote Desktop Connection.  • Maintained and troubleshoot 7 networked Xerox printers throughout the company.  • Managed Audio Visual equipment in large conference rooms, ensuring microphones, projectors, and laptops are working properly.   • Handled helpdesk support requests in a timely manner with a follow-up after issue has been resolved.   • Configured and deployed of new client hardware and software applications.  EDUCATION  GEORGE MASON UNIVERSITY - FAIRFAX, VA    Major: Bachelor of Applied Information Technology, Concentration in Networking     Expected Graduation Date: December 2018    Courses: Intro to Networking, Database, Intro to Security, Modern Telecommunications, Computer Hardware Fundamentals.     ACHIEVEMENTS & AWARDS  Comptia Sec+ COMP001020860298    2016 Q3 Iron Bow Silver Arrow Award -Recognized for going above and beyond to support the Company’s mission and vision. Education AS in Information Technology Northern Virginia Community College - Manassas, VA August 2014 BS in Information Technology George Mason University - Fairfax, VA Skills VPN, Windows 7 (10+ years), Windows 10 (3 years), O365 (2 years), Exchange (2 years), Active Directory (2 years), VOIP (2 years) Awards Iron Bow Silver Arrow Award -Q3 2016 2016 Outstanding work performance Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ May 2015 to May 2018