Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Computer Science Graduate, University of Houston Houston, TX Work Experience Systems Administrator University of Houston - Houston, TX May 2011 to Present JOB ROLES:   • Installing, configuring and maintaining Windows Desktops, Servers and Active Directory for both physical and virtual machines using Hyper-V.   • Setting up and maintaining Domain Controllers, DHCP and DNS servers Education Masters in Computer Science University of Houston - Houston, TX December 2012 Bachelors of Engineering in Information Technology University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra July 2010 Diploma in Computer Engineering Maharashtra State Board of Technical Education - Mumbai, Maharashtra 2007 Skills Languages: C, C++, Core Java, Linux Shell Scripting. Parallel Computing: Open MPI, OpenMP, OpenCL. Operating Systems: Linux, Windows 7, Windows Server ’08 R2. Tools: Hyper-V, VirtualBox, Symantec Ghost, WireShark, Kdevelop, Eclipse. Mobile Computing: Android SDK, Web Services, JSON, XML Additional Information ACADEMIC PROJECTS: Masters   Masters’ Thesis:   Influence of Runtime Parameters on the Performance of Parallel Applications (C, Open MPI, Shell Scripting)   Developed a methodology to combine multiple Open MPI MCA parameter sets and came up with a two-stage parameter   tuning process. Examples of such parameters include network parameters which affect the performance of point-to-  point operations or parameters influencing the algorithms used for collective communication operations.     Parallel DNA Sequence Alignment using OpenCL (C, OpenCL, Shell Scripting)   Developed a parallelized version of DNA sequence alignment (Smith-Waterman) algorithm and tested the performance   with AMD Opteron Barcelona Processors and NVIDIA GPUs respectively. The parallelized algorithm performed around   75% faster compared to its single thread counterpart.     Simple Proxy Server (C, Linux)   This was a proxy server which relayed requests between a browser and websites. The application was also able to block   and unblock particular websites and display statistics about various hosts connected to it.     Prototype of an Internet Router (C, Linux)   Developed a basic Internet router which could route real network traffic, with the help of Virtual Network System (VNS)   of Stanford University. A VNS server simulates a network topology consisting of multiple links and VNS clients. The   router is an example of a VNS client which could rout traffic to application servers in the VNS network by connecting to   the VNS server.     Prototype of a shell (C, Linux)   Developed a shell emulator which accepted commands from the user and made necessary system calls to execute them.   It supported pipes, I/O redirection and other valid combinations.     Remote Access Vectorization (Fortran, Linux)   The project involved carefully understanding the internals of the OpenUH compiler and Co-Array Fortran (CAF). Was   involved in coming up with an algorithm to vectorize remote data access requests using Co-Array Fortran for the   OpenUH compiler and developing a program to demonstrate the advantages of vectorizing data access using CAF.     ACADEMIC PROJECT: Bachelors   Adaptive Compcache - In Memory Compressed Swapping (C, Linux, Shell Scripting)   A RAM based block device which acted as a swap disk was created. Instead of swapping unused pages to the disk they   were compressed and stored in this block device. Storing them in memory reduced the time taken to swap pages to the   disk. The objective to make this block device adaptive i.e. change its size at runtime based on the system performance   was achieved.     FREELANCING PROJECT:   Android App: TechShuttle (Java, Web Services, SQL Server)   Developed an App for the Android platform, which allows employees of an organization to check schedules and book   shuttles between office branches.