Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Paducah, KY Experience in technical support providing a strong work ethic and complex technical knowledge.  CORE QUALIFICATIONS    • Windows 7,8,10, Server 2012 proficient  • Vast technical knowledge  • Strong with Active Directory and Group Policy Management  • HTML, CSS, SQL, ASP.NET experience  • Virtual Environments  • Troubleshooting proficiency  • Intermediate Networking skills  • Server installation and configuration  • Printer/scanner installation  • Microsoft deployment tools  • Microsoft Office, SQL Server 2012, Visual Studio Experience Work Experience Systems Administrator KELLER SCHROEDER & ASSOCIATES, INC - Evansville, IN September 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities    I worked for Jackson Purchase Energy Corp on behalf of KSA. I managed their environment and resolved any issues that would arise. I also provided hardware and software technical support to end users.    • Insure that users were able to do their jobs efficiently by maintaining their desktops and resolve any issues.  • Manage VMware, Veeam Backups, Virtual/Physical Servers, Exchange Server, Palo Alto Firewalls, Networking, Printers, AD, Group Policy  • Assist with linemen and dispatch software.  • Install operating systems, Microsoft Office, and other various software.  • Create, delete, manage virtual desktops and servers. LYON COUNTY SCHOOLS - Eddyville, KY July 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities  • Provided technical assistance to staff and students.  • Performed duties related to the installation, repair, upgrading, and maintenance of computers, printers, and other peripheral equipment.  • Install and configure software applications.  • Maintain computer labs.  • Add and maintain domain accounts in Active Directory  • Maintain Group Policies for a good student and staff experience.  • Troubleshoot servers and connectivity issues. Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in COMPUTER INFORMATION SYSTEMS Murray State University - Murray, KY 2013 Skills Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory