Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Moreno Valley, CA A level headed, trustworthy, and resourceful Systems Administrator with the  ability to respond to a wide variety of challenges with a focused and driven  approach. Angel enjoys the challenge of the evolving IT world and strives  to become exceedingly proficient at his already expansive skill set. Angel  has 4 years of systems administration experience as well as a two year  background as a network administrator with in the United States Marine  Corps. He has gone through an extensive amount of IT support and Server  administrative courses, such as, CompTIA A+, Net+, and Sec+, VMware  Hypervisor Administration and CCNA Modules one and two, designed to  make him a valuable asset to any IT team. Has in depth experience at  assisting and troubleshooting user based issues with their workstations or  server based issues. Angel has had the privilege of working and learning  from IT professionals around the world, ranging from IT system administrators  in Spain, Romania, United Kingdom, and Germany to Microsoft Corporation  in the United States. He will bring new ideas and fresh perspective in order  improve the daily proficiency of any domain. Angel is looking for a  company he can continue to grow with, one he can make a difference in  and put his skills to the test. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator United States Marine Corps - Camp Lejeune, NC January 2016 to Present Systems Administrator / United States Marine Corps - Camp Lejeune, NC /  01.2016 - Current  • Optimized system security and performance through the use of Red Hat  Enterprise Linux systems, such as, Nessus and Security Center Virtual  machines.  • Played critical role in Special Communication Teams whose roles were  to setup, manage, and establish services like Active Directory Domain  Services and Exchange 2016 in a wide variety of climates and settings  around the world for large user infrastructures.  • Provided documentation on start-up, shut down and first level  troubleshooting of processes to help desk staff.  • Analyzed complex project server issues and worked on large enterprise  and business-critical applications.  • Trained junior members of IT team regarding network security and  troubleshooting of data circuits.  • Advocated for end-users to perform testing and problem analysis for  server, desktop and IT infrastructure work.  • Contributed to the development and administration of four different  domains, providing reliable and efficient end user experience.  • Extensive knowledge and background in Windows Deployment Services WDS), Windows Server Update Service (WSUS), Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) and DNS. Education High school or equivalent Canyon Springs High School - Moreno Valley, CA August 2011 to June 2015 Skills Network Architecture (4 years), Cisco Routing and Switching (2 years), Linux (3 years), Nessus (2 years), Net App Filer Data ONTAP (4 years), Group Policy Management (4 years), Red Hat (3 years), Security Center (2 years), VMware (4 years), Windows Server 2008 (Less than 1 year), Active Directory (4 years), DNS (4 years), Powershell (2 years), System Administrator, Cisco, System Admin, Linux Administrator, Redhat Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sgt Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0yssz0eoewi489i5 Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to prioritize and allocate time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/3mmgiweelwundoaq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Currently has Secret Clearance