Desktop Support Analyst Desktop Support Analyst Active Secret Clearance Huntsville, AL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Desktop Support Analyst NLogic - Huntsville, AL October 2018 to Present • Active Secret Clearance  • Support PEO Aviation / Apache PM with Desktop Support and PC Mainteance  • Service over 400 Users   • Create and Modify Active Directory User Accounts and Assign necessary Groups for new and existing users coming aboard PEO.   • Install Software and Hardware   • Troubleshoot and Maintain existing user workstations when problems occur  • Apply PEO Desktop Image for new users and add MAC addresses to Network approved Whitelist  • Use Remote Desktop tools for users far away to troubleshoot or install software components Help Desk Analyst EMCO Technologies - Huntsville, AL March 2018 to October 2018 • Utilize Active Directory, Remedy with Smart IT, Cisco Finesse and Bomgar Remote Desktop applications.  • Consistently resolve customer help desk related issues.  • Provide excellent customer service to Army COE employees Systems Administrator Elite Technical Solutions - Huntsville, AL August 2017 to May 2018 • On site IT technical support for multiple commercial clients in the Huntsville area.  • Experience with TCP/IP Protocols, Network Troubleshooting, VOIP, Access Points, IP Addressing, Switches and Firewalls, Terminating copper cabling, and End user awareness.  • Utilize ticketing system to respond to customer complaints/ IT related issues.  • Perform Hardware/ Software maintenance and troubleshooting as needed. Systems Administrator Aegis Technologies Group, Inc - Huntsville, AL February 2017 to August 2017 • Supported contract with IT break/ fix and troubleshooting support for US Armed Forces.  • Experience with Active Directory and Remedy  • Whitelisted applications, performed system updates and patches for systems ready to go to flight testing for UAV programs. Systems Technician Huntsville City Schools - Huntsville, AL July 2016 to February 2017 • Provided hands on break/ fix and help desk style IT support for Huntsville City Schools.  • Responsible for over 400 Students and Faculty electronic devices including laptops, printers, tablets and projectors. Education Network Technician Diploma Virginia College - Huntsville, AL March 2016 to November 2016 Skills Tech Support, Service Desk, Desktop Support, Active Directory, Help Desk Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-3 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ April 2017 to Present CompTIA A+ April 2017 to Present Additional Information Active Secret Clearance