Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - United States Army, Signal Corps Work Experience Systems Administrator United States Army, Signal Corps - Tokyo, JP February 2014 to Present Tokyo, Japan  ? Operated, maintained and administrated servers and workstations that provided services such as file services, application services, database services, and related data processing and storage systems operating on both Non-classified Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNET) and the Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET).  ? Utilized System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) and remote services to maintain the most up to date Windows Operating System, application and patch deployments in compliance with Army standard configurations and Security Technical Implementation Guidelines (STIGs), resulting in one of the Army's highest network security ratings.  ? Created, updated, reset and deleted user and domain-level accounts as well as group policies in Active Directory with coordination with local Information Management Officers (IMO) to ensure a 100% current user database.  ? Performed routine systems administration tasks such as server backup, file and system recoveries, account management, managed user permissions, server and workstation software and hardware installation and configuration, scheduled checks, logs, audits, and preventive maintenance.  ? Scanned network devices for Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVA) and STIG non-compliance by Utilizing Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS) to ensure maximum IA compliance on all servers and freshly imaged devices.  ? Created Windows 7 Army Gold Master Operating System standard configuration and SCCM Task Sequence for all of Honshu, Japan Army SIPRNET.  ? Worked to help create a standardized Section Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Honshu, Japan Server and Systems operations.  ? Selected over peers by senior management to serve in a supervisor position and was tasked with the training and counseling of junior team members. Education Information Technology Specialist United States Army Signal Center - Fort Gordon, GA April 2014 to August 2014 Gateway High School - Kissimmee, FL August 2007 to May 2011 Military Service Branch: U.S. Army Service Country: United States Rank: PFC February 2014 to May 2016 Additional Information IT Specialist with experience managing server infrastructure, data-center operations and monitoring network integrity. Valued team member with experience in multiple facets of Information Technology including planning, installing, configuring and optimizing network equipment as well as server and workstation hardware and software to consistently achieve high availability and performance. Currently maintain a Secret security clearance, granted 2011.    SPECIALIZED SKILLS  ? SIPR/NIPR Access Point (SNAP) VSAT  ? NSS PKI Trusted Agent Training '  ? Derivative Classification  ? TCP/IP  ? Remedy Ticket Management  ? Active Directory  ? SCCM 2012  ? Windows XP/Vista/7/Server 2008/2008 R2  ? Technical Support  ? Systems Installation  ? Authorized COMSEC handler  ? Network Security