Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - United Stated Air Force Tucson, AZ A highly experienced computer system and network troubleshooter with 6 years of experience  maintaining several complex Windows and Linux based systems under a high-stress and high-tempo  workflow. Goal-oriented self-starter with expertise regarding program, operations, people, and time  management. Programming hobbyist with experience in Python 3.7 and Java 8.0 that is motivated to be in  an environment that will encourage growth in programming/scripting skill set.    • Top Secret//SCI • Quick Learner • Leadership experience Work Experience Systems Administrator United Stated Air Force May 2014 to Present Collected and analyzed classified platform logs to detect deficient controls, duplicated effort,  fraud, or non-compliance with laws, regulations and management policies IAW NIST's 800-53  & DoD Manual 7600.07.  • Baselined & hardened system components through proper hardware/software configuration  management procedures.  • Investigated and troubleshot user reported errors and customer complaints to determine extent  of technical problems.  • Reimaged, repaired, replaced, calibrated, sanitized, and reconfigured workstations and various  network devices revolving around LAN & WAN technologies.  • Communicated concise reports to production management team regarding steps required to repair any and all user reported discrepancies.  • Organized and executed training sessions for new personnel and users to ensure proper  onboarding and familiarization with equipment.  • Collaborated with BAE Systems engineers for prototype feedback and test equipment design  suggestions and refining for optimal use in an aircraft maintenance setting  • Expertly repaired crimp and solder type connectors, and have extensive experience with troubleshooting and repairing fiber optic networks. Education High school Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Linux, Redhat, System Admin, Red Hat Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: Senior Airman Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ November 2018 to November 2021