Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Xetus Mortgage Corporation San Jose, CA • Driven, analytical, focused team player with strong technical knowledge and 4 years of hands on experience in  Systems and Network Administration.  • Strong trouble-shooting skills with the ability to resolve issues.  • Adaptive to new technologies.  • Experience in EI3PA (PCI like) and SOC audits.  • Experience working under pressure and tight deadlines. Work Experience Systems Administrator Xetus Mortgage Corporation - Santa Clara, CA July 2010 to Present Responsibilities as a Systems Administrator include installation and configuration of operating systems, tools and services.  • Set up system monitoring through Nagios. Monitor systems and respond to alerts.  • Set up centralized logging. Check and analyze daily logs for security threats through Graylog2.  • Configure OSSEC policies, and Cisco IPS module for intrusion detection and prevention.  • Scan systems using Nessus and fix issues found in the scan results.  • Determine relevant updates for various systems (typically through apt) and provide (brief but accurate) impact  assessment for the update.  • Database administration, back up and restoration.  • Review internal policies and procedures to ensure the company is in compliance with the policy requirements.  • Responsible for uptime of company's website.  • Generate and update SSL certificates for internal websites.  • Responsible for managing user access to system through OpenLDAP.  • Configure Cisco ASA, IPS, and HP Switches.  • Set up virtual machines and environment for developers.  • Responsible for managing VPN access.  • Responsible for yearly security audits. Implementing solutions required for the audits. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering San Jose State University - San Jose, CA December 2010 Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    • Systems and Network Administration • Bash Scripting and Python Programming  • Technical Support • Security Audits (EI3PA, SOC)  • Systems and Network Security (OSSEC, IPS) • Backup and Recovery (ZRM for MySQL)  • Data Center Experience • Documentation  • Software Administration (MySQL Server, PGP Server, • Operating Systems (Linux, Mac OS, Windows)  OpenLDAP server)  • Monitoring Tools (Nagios, Graylog2, Tripwire, Splunk) • Systems Installation, Configuration, Maintenance & Upgrade  • Workstation Configuration (Anti-virus, Endpoint • Virtualization Platforms (VMware, Xen Cloud  Protection software, Endpoint Encryption using Platform, XenServer)  Symantec Encryption Desktop, Cisco VPN Client)