Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Rahway, NJ Professional and experienced Systems Administrator with skills in project development and deployment, IT infrastructure and support, building client relations, and a comprehensive knowledge of a multitude of computer systems and their uses within a commercial environment. Looking to pursue a long-term career in IT. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Technology Visionaries LLC - Woodbridge, NJ February 2014 to Present Managed Services Provider - Full IT support and maintenance for small to medium sized businesses  Lead Systems Administrator / Network Technician  • First employee hired in a rapidly growing, successful business.  • Developed and written over 400 knowledge base articles, policies, and technician  procedures designed to decrease labor and increase efficiency.  • Train and oversee new employees, as well as interview, hire, and oversee  dozens of interns.  • Oversaw a 100% growth in client base.  • Simultaneously manage and support over a dozen commercial organizations' IT  infrastructure, including municipal, non-profit, educational, financial, law enforcement,  legal, and pharmaceutical.  • Deployed multiple commercial networks, including multi-location networks with S2SVPN.  • Deployed and supported Hosted Exchange email systems to over a half-dozen companies.  • Ensured a minimum of 99.9% uptime.  • Developed large scale project plans involving over 100 people.  • Business consulting and primary business contact for client communications.  • Experience with Windows Server, Powershell, Bash, virtualized environments, Office 365,  Android, iOS, Windows 7, 8,10, Cisco, Watchguard, Web Development, and AWS. Education Bachelors of Applied Science in Computer Science Bloomfield College 2017 Skills CUSTOMER SERVICE (6 years), PROJECT DEVELOPMENT (3 years), SALES (3 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/kwohltman Certifications/Licenses Network+ Certified A+ Certified Watchguard Firewall Certified Additional Information Technical Expertise • Sales • Strong communication skills: verbal and written • Outgoing •  Customer Service • Consulting • Project Development • Public Speaking • Self-Motivated