Systems Security Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Security Engineer Washington, DC 10 years of progressive experience as a Systems and Network Administrator. Specialized knowledge with IT for federal government contracting. Effective and respected IT team leader who has demonstrated ability to resolve complex IT issues and improve processes resulting in organizational impact. I graduated Cum Laude with a Bachelor of Science in Information Services. High energy and goal oriented team player with proven track record of customer service and attention to detail Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Security Engineer Department of Veteran’s Affairs, ASM Research Government Contractor - Fairfax, VA January 2017 to Present Help to safeguard organization's computer networks and systems by researching and testing vulnerabilities indicated by Nessus.  Plan and carry out security measures to monitor and protect sensitive data and systems from infiltration and cyber-attacks.   Work as part of an IT team and report remediation findings to management.  Implement and monitor security measures for the protection of computer systems, networks and information.  Develop technical solutions and new security tools to help mitigate security vulnerabilities and automate repeatable tasks.   Communicate with the technical team, management team and users companywide on mitigation research and testing results. Systems Administrator - Team Lead Unicor, Federal Prison Industries, Inc - Washington, DC Present Serves as subject matter expert and team lead to provide Tier 2 and Tier 3 helpdesk support for Windows applications and other authorized software applications for over 1100 on-site and remote users. Analyze, develop, test, improve and incorporated IT business solutions to enhance IT business processes. Expertly supervise, motivate, train and lead staff of three team members, using experience backed judgment, strong work ethic, and irreproachable integrity, derived from 8 years as a military enlisted leader in the US Navy. Systems Administrator (Contractor) Livanta LLC - Annapolis Junction, MD May 2012 to February 2014 Promoted to Systems and Network Administrator who flawlessly provided above-level technical support, troubleshooting skills for all Windows applications and any other authorized software applications for internal and remote users. Demonstrated IT skills which exemplified a knowledgeable systems administrator committed to resolve client technical problems in a timely manner to reduce down time Education Bachelor's of SCience in Information Technology Strayer University-Maryland - Suitland-Silver Hill, MD 2014 to 2016 Skills Symantec endpoint protection (3 years), SCCM (3 years) Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E5 June 2000 to January 2008 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tkqm4reqmhuc09we Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Groups Alpha Signa Lambda Present Honors society Additional Information 18 years of progressive experience as a Systems and Network Administrator. Specialized knowledge with IT for federal government contracting. Effective and respected IT team leader who has demonstrated ability to resolve complex IT issues and improve processes resulting in organizational impact. I graduated Cum Laude with a Bachelor of Science in Information Services. High energy and goal oriented team player with proven track record of customer service and attention to detail   