DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer Devops Engineer Lansing, MI Continuous learning and Implementing best possible automating techniques that enable the organization to meet the standards in the dynamically changing market. Achieving this through engineering end to end solutions in IT infrastructure and building an efficient and secure Architecture. Providing and supporting Infrastructure solutions in middleware for automating day to day tasks on-premise and cloud platforms. Work Experience DevOps Engineer Accident Fund Insurance Company - Lansing, MI March 2017 to Present Projects: DT automation in Infrastructure and Middleware support.  • Automate daily administrative tasks, configure and implement SSL and re-mediate Security Vulnerabilities as per corporate security guidelines and address audit findings.  • Leverage middleware technologies to provide robust, cutting-edge integration solutions to fully and successfully achieve new goals and meet new challenges rapidly and cost-effectively.  • Assist in documenting current, revised and new processes and procedures.  • Troubleshoot and provide proactive support for production and non-production application servers.  • Provide guidance at disaster recovery exercises. Break fix on application jobs and claim, complete request tickets each month.  • Identify and resolve advanced application issues using appropriate code languages, toolsets, or configuration processes.  • Stay up to date with advances in information technology by reading manuals, trade periodicals, and technical reports relating to automation and middleware technology. Middleware Administrator Genentech - South San Francisco, CA October 2015 to March 2017 Projects: Data center migration, Applications decommission and Infrastructure support.  • Experienced in analyzing, performance tuning including troubleshooting, monitoring and maintaining WebLogic, Jboss, Apache, Drupal severs and solving the related problems.  • Escalation/routing tickets, contact different support groups and vendors, according to the escalation guidelines. 24x5 availability for incident resolution and groups Mailboxes and HPSM queues monitoring and handling.   • Application incident support from infrastructure perspective.   • Deploy new application version in the application servers.  • Execute infrastructure requests for installation, decommission, requests for enhancements and maintenance as defined and coordinated.   • Active contribution to the development of the knowledge base and other documented working procedures. Systems Administrator Siri InfoSolutions Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to December 2013 • Installing and configuring Linux and windows servers.  • Monitoring system performance and troubleshooting issues.  • Ensuring security and efficiency of IT infrastructure. Education Master's in Engineering University of New Haven - New Haven, CT January 2014 to August 2015 Skills Middleware (5 years), Security (3 years), Disaster recovery (3 years), Ssl (4 years), Devops (3 years), Engineer (6 years), Audit (1 year), Documenting (6 years), Administrative tasks (6 years), Jenkins (3 years), Linux (5 years), AWS (2 years), Git (3 years), Ansible (3 years), Weblogic (4 years), Tomcat (4 years), JBoss (4 years), Grafana (3 years), YAML (3 years), Shell (3 years), Python (1 year), Bash (1 year), Java (3 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/gopinadh-m-0a38a2152 Certifications/Licenses AWS Solutions Architect Associate May 2018 to May 2021 AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Associate  Credential ID-VR4NNKWKLNQQQRG2