Network Engineer Network Engineer Systems Administrator / IT Technician - Recovery Institute of South Florida Hollywood, FL My name is Gabriel,  I'm a student at Broward College and also a full-time employee and have been for the past 3  years. Balancing school and work has molded me into the mature individual that I am now. I know  my worth and I know what I can provide to any organization that would like to have me on their  team. I am very confident that I am the one you're looking for. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Legal Computer Consultants - Miramar, FL February 2016 to Present Maintain network infrastructure, security, efficiency and continuity for over 10 different client offices. Computer Hardware Technician Telecom Resources of America July 2015 to September 2015 Troubleshot, repair, configure and deploy hardware for Memorial Regional Heath Care  Systems Mobile Workstations (WOWs).  Maintain active log of all WOWs serviced. Data Entry/Customer Service G-Proulx Building Products August 2013 to July 2015 Data entry  Answer incoming calls  Interact with walk-in clients  Customer servicing and support Systems Administrator / IT Technician Recovery Institute of South Florida September 2015 Build and Maintain the company's external public website.  Troubleshoot, repair, configure and deploy new hardware such as: computers, laptops, cell  phones, firewalls, VPN's and PBX phone systems.  Facebook page management.  Maintain both Microsoft and Linux Servers.  Configure and deploy SNMP monitoring server(s).  IT documentation. Education Associates in Science in Networking Services Technology Broward College 2013 to Present Associate in Science in Networking Services Technology Broward College Website Skills Server 2012 R2 (3 years), VPN (3 years), Powershell (2 years), Interpersonal Communication (3 years), Customer Service (3 years), Network Administration (3 years), Network Security (3 years), Project Management (3 years) Links https://www.visualcv.com/gabriel-castillo Awards Broward College Honors Program 2015-10 Certifications/Licenses Broward College MCSA Present The Information Technology Management – Microsoft  MCSA: Windows Server 2012 certificate program, offered at  the A. Hugh Adams Central Campus, prepares students for  employment opportunities as network support specialists. It is  designed for students seeking the skills set necessary to be  successful in their careers as Microsoft MCSA Server  Administrators. CompTIA Security+ February 2016 to February 2019 Additional Information Skills  Microsoft Server 2012 R2    https://www.visualcv.com/gabriel-castillo  8 solid months of hands on experience with Server 2012 R2. Firm background in the following  areas:    Active Directory Domain Services (Sites and Services, Domains and Trusts, Users and  Computers).  DNS, DDNS and Routing and Remote Access.  Group Policy Management and deployment.  Failover Clustering and NLB.  File Shares using both Mapped Network Drives and DFS    Strong Interpersonal Skills  With a strong background in both Customer Service and Support and IT Administration,  interpersonal skills have played a very large and significant role in my everyday work. I excel in  the following:  Speaking Clearly - So that everything is understood addressed  Understanding - Making sure that I know what the end user is requesting and what would be  the most practical and efficient way to solve it.  Failure - I do recognize that I am Human. I do (very rarely) make mistakes and address and  resolve them accordingly.    Firewalls and VPN's  Having worked with a company that has multiple sites, configuring and maintaining VPN's have  been critical to the company's success. I have worked with the following VPN services:    SonicWall VPN Services and infrastructure.  PPTP Implementations.    Linux Server Administration  Roughly 4 months of constant Linux Server and Desktop administration, both Debian and Red Hat.  I have worked with the following services:    Apache Web Server.  PHP and MySQL Server.    https://www.visualcv.com/gabriel-castillo