Lead engineer Lead engineer Lead engineer - Adela Technologies Lane, CA Highly focused and professional cloud computing architect with 6 years career experience in fast-paced, deadline driven advanced cloud computing environments. Exceptional leader and developer of teams and operational processes focused on growth objectives. Work Experience Lead engineer Adela Technologies - Lexington Park, MD September 2017 to Present - Ensured that operational and technical activities are executed within allotted budget and timelines.  - Provided excellent customer service in order to build and maintain strong relationships with customers.  - Provided guidance to customers on how to overcome current and future technical challenges.  - Worked closely with customers to define solid budgets based on customer requirements.  - Optimized costs by implementing automation such as scaling and power cycling schedules for instances as well as right sizing instances and more.  - Ensured customer complaints are handled and resolved accurately and quickly.  - Managed multiple customer accounts.  - Designed, planned, and built new AWS cloud environments for customers.  - Ensured best practices were being utilized when deploying any cloud service/environment.  - Built and maintained AWS security posture to follow different compliance requirements for various clients (NIST 800-XX, HIPAA etc)  - Built AWS ECS containers with Fargate creating a server-less web application.  - Integration of DevOps automation tools in AWS to include deployments to ECS Fargate utilizing CodeCommit, CodeBuild, Codedeploy, and CodePipeline.  - Designed, planned, and deployed an AWS Workspace environment with a security first focus.  - Developed a solid understanding of customer applications in order to build the most cost effective, resilient, and efficient cloud environment.  - Provided documentation to the customer upon completion of projects or milestones to ensure their complete understanding of the new environments. Senior Systems Administrator Booz Allen Hamilton - Lexington Park, MD September 2016 to November 2018 - Optimizing system performance based on Solarwinds metrics.  - Created/maintained group policy for windows STIGS and software patches.  - Lead migration of Palo Alto port based polices to application layer polices.  - Spearheaded the design/implementation of an AWS DR site.  - Lead DISA CAP integration efforts in support of the AWS DR site.  - Lead the design of the new cloud based system following DISA CC SRG/SCCA architecture guidelines.  - Built AD sites and services in support of DR over WAN.  - Maintained Microsoft IIS administration and configuration.  - Well rounded comprehension of government processes and procedures.  - Regularly maintained DISA STIG compliance for network systems and windows servers.  - Troubleshooting of complex engineering issues for hardware, software, and network components.  - Lead activities such as system builds, application installation, configuration and monitoring.  - Installed, configured, and maintained Microsoft Active Directory domains and forests.  - Created, changed, and deleted user/service accounts in active directory.  - Maintained all Palo Alto network firewalls.  - Managed system backups and recovery with Backup Exec.  - Installed new software releases and system upgrades, evaluated and installed patches, and resolved software related problems.  - Created new virtual servers using VMware. Systems Administrator AMEWAS - California, MD October 2015 to September 2016 - Planned and accomplished virtual environment migration to a new host environment.  - Planned and accomplished the setup of all IT related systems at new office locations.  - Planned and accomplished the installation of badge access systems across multiple office locations.  - Migrated company email from a third party service to an onsite exchange 2013 environment.  - Installed new software releases and system upgrades, evaluated and installed patches, and resolved software related problems.  - Performed system backups and recovery to AWS glacier.  - Maintained data files and monitored system configurations to ensure data integrity.  - Oversaw technology and service purchases.  - Configuration and deployment of workstations, applications, and servers.  - Administration of company printer systems and contracts.  - Planned and accomplished the installation and programming of multiple enterprise phone systems.  - Performed periodic performance reporting of all systems to support capacity planning.  - Performed regular file archival and purge as necessary.  - Created, changed, and deleted user accounts per request in active directory.  - Maintained all Fortinet network firewalls.  - Maintained a 2000+ item inventory of assets.  - Set up Encryption, PKI tokens, and digital signatures. Help Desk Technician Smartronix - Hollywood, MD September 2014 to October 2015 - Provided helpdesk support to over 600 users across 9 physical locations.  - Performed imaging of new and refreshed systems.  - Created new virtual servers using VMware.  - Oversaw data backups.  - Checked A/V and system logs across networks.  - Provided product research and BCA reports for new technologies/solutions.  - Created network documentation and diagrams.  - Maintained A/V and VTC systems.  - Assisted with Office 365 migrations.  - Performed A/V scans and removed malware as needed. Education Bachelor's Degree College of Southern Maryland - Leonardtown, MD Present High School Diploma Chopticon High School - Morganza, MD 2012 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Clustering, Iis, Vmware, Nessus, Iis 7, Microsoft iis 7.0, Tomcat, Firewall, Netbackup, Microsoft sql server, Microsoft sql server 2012, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Sql, Netapp, Apache, Linux, Iaas Additional Information Skills    • Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012, & 2016  • Palo Alto, Fortinet, Barracuda Firewall Appliances  • Active Directory (AD)  • Microsoft SQL Server 2012  • Microsoft failover clustering  • VMware ESX 5.5, 6.0, & 6.5/vCenter  • JR Linux experience  • A/V protection (McAfee)  • Cisco switches  • Agile methodology  • NetBackup  • Nessus ACAS  • AWS - IaaS  • NetApp SAN  • F5 Big-IP  • FedRAMP IL 4/5  • AWS IAM policy creation/management  • AWS CloudFormation  • AWS Infrastructure as code  • Microsoft IIS 7.0, 7.5, 8.0  • Apache Tomcat 8.0