Systems Administrator - US House of Representatives <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - US House of Representatives Systems Administrator - US House of Representatives - Leidos Springfield, VA Work Experience Systems Administrator - US House of Representatives Leidos November 2018 to Present Breakdown workstations for leaving/moving Representative offices and prepare  workstations for newly elected Representatives, review and adjust floor-plans for network accessibility  ? Add new users' devices to the House domain with NetIQ and provide end user support  to House Member offices and their staff (interns/staff, Chief of Staff, Members) with NetIQ, escalating tickets to Supervisors if needed  ? Survey offices to assure computers meet the House's technical specifications, securely  wipe the drives of noncompliant computers to turnover ahead of new Congress  ? Customize Windows 10 images for deployment and reimage computers as needed Systems Administrator Nexus IT Solutions, LLC July 2017 to October 2018 Administer high quality, responsive, technical support service in a Windows  environment to clients both on-site and remotely over the phone/with TeamViewer  ? Effectively documented all resolution steps in electronic tracking system with OS Ticket,  escalating tickets to Systems Engineer's if needed  ? Customize Windows 10 images with SCCM to perform client upgrades from Windows 8  ? Assure all user assigned software tools are installed correctly after migration  ? Troubleshoot Group Policy and publish group policies to maintain consistency between client domains  ? Analyze client needs and recommended effective solutions to meet user and business  objectives, writing use case narratives for recommended systems Technical Assistant Digital Media Academy at George Washington University May 2017 to July 2017 Provided onsite/in-class/remote (via TeamViewer, LogMeInRescue) technical support to instructors, students, and guests in a Mac environment  ? Oversaw electronics/IT inventory list & procured equipment  ? Maintained documentation of technical processes developed by the technical team Education BSBA in Information Systems & Technology Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA May 2018 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Desktop Support (3 years), Troubleshooting (3 years), Technical Writing (1 year), User Experience Design (Less than 1 year), Business Analysis (1 year), SQL, Excel, Business Intelligence Additional Information ? Technical experience with workstation/laptop builds, Network Operations, and End User  Support on Windows Server 2008-2012, Windows 7/8.1/10, Mac OS, and Ubuntu  ? Experience with the following tools: Active Directory, SCCM, Jira (SD), NetIQ, OS Ticket,  Adobe Creative Suite, Sketch, Microsoft Office, Visio, TeamViewer  ? Holds novice to intermediate proficiency with languages including Java, C++, PHP, SQL,  and HTML/CSS  ? Proficient in writing use case narratives & translating tech requirements into Visio  designs  ? Customer service, communication, and collaboration