Systems Administrator/ DevOps Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer / Systems Engineer Denver, CO • Around 3 Years of IT experience in System administration in the areas of various flavors of LINUX (Redhat, CentOS, Solaris) and managing production environment through DevOps Tools.  • Experience in Server build using Terraform, Cobbler and Kickstart Process.  • Experience in using Version Control Tools like GIT LAB and BIT Bucket.  • Responsible with CM tools for Installing of OS and configuring them using CHEF.  • Experience in user and group administration using Identity Policy Audit (IPA).  • Experience configuring hosts using ANSIBLE.  • Experience in monitoring large environments (5000+) using ICINGA and NAGIOS.  • Hands on Experience with NOC Alarm monitoring tools like Net Cool Omnibus.  • Experience with programming languages like Java Script Object Notation (JSON) and XML.  • Expertise in Installing, administering, troubleshooting NFS and SAMBA Server.  • Experience in Logical Volume Manager (LVM) for creation of Volume groups / Logical Volumes and formatting File systems.  • Managing user and Group accounts by controlling access with proper permissions, implementing Access Control Lists (ACL) and applying password policies.  • Performing several installations and removal of RPM's in Red Hat Linux by using RPM, YUM.  • Experience with package management tools like YUM, RPM.  • Disk administration, Creating File systems, mounting / Un-mounting file systems.  • Experience with file systems Ext 4, Ext 5, XFS.  • File and Directory Administration, Setting up the file and Directory Permissions.  • Memory Management, Analysis of Memory Usage, Cache & swap management.  • Experience Assisting different teams (Networking, Application, Cloud, Infrastructure) across organization during Disaster Recovery process.  • Experience in Utilizing standard corporate tools (JIRA) to record changes, service requests, and problem activities for tracking purposes.  • Experience in using documentation tools like Confluence.  • Experience Providing 24x7 on call support on daily rotation basis. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator/ DevOps Engineer Charter Communications - Denver, CO June 2017 to Present ·        Attended architectural solution and final layout meetings with teams across organization for the final review before implementing the built layout.  ·        Created terraform modules for adding a disk, Network interface card, Creating VM’s in vSphere and Open Stack for different applications like Oracle Enterprise, S&T in HCL.  ·        Created IAC Module to Build Virtual Machines using Terraform 0.10.2.  ·        Created and Maintained Repos in repository management tools like GitLab Community Edition.  ·        Performed Production Network Activity by creating tickets as per the activity needed like Standard Maintenance, High Risk Incident, Break Fix, Outage, Impairment, Incident Activity, Event Authorization, Planned Maintenance Work, Information, EBQ, CRQ and HazCon.    ·        Performed operations such as releasing Jenkins Pipe line using automation server as Jenkins for CHEF DSL for XML scripts.  ·        Creating, updating and editing environmental attributes for JSON, XML files using version control tool (GIT LAB).  ·        Hands on experience in using configuring tools like CHEF for installing different cookbooks like Free IPA and ICINGA nodes.  ·        Responsible for adding the hosts in Ansible and then checking the connectivity between the servers from. The central workstation.  ·        Experience in managing the IPA users and passwords from GUI of Identity policy audit server.  ·        Assisted other teams during the DR process. Responsible for taking down and verifying the alarms in ICINGA and in NOC bucket in Netcool Omnibus.  ·        Performed Alarm Submission validation, log aggregation validation during DR.  ·        Monitored 5000+ servers using the GUI of ICINGA.  ·        Created Tickets in bug tracking tool such as JIRA by assigning type, priority, labels and providing QA test Cases by creating market specific system dashboards.  ·        Lead troubleshooting calls during the Operation readiness testing.  ·        Involved in checking the network connectivity with TCP dump, R ping and troubleshoot the system’s connectivity.  ·        Hands on experience in using Indexing and Queuing tools like ELK and Rabbit MQ.  ·        Experience in writing queries in log format tools such as Splunk.  ·        Created and Managed Issue specific Troubleshooting groups in Slack and Hip Chat.  ·        Created Method of Procedure MOP’ for different processes and Documented results and findings in Atlassian Confluence tool called as Chalk.  ·        Involved in Installing application related RPM packages on the server.  ·        Involved in applying patches to kernel and server for updates.  ·        Storage Management, Created VG’s, LV’s and disk mirroring, managed LVM and file systems, paging space management, restore and availability, monitoring system and Network performance.  ·        Formatting the newly created disk with filesystems (XFS).  ·        Setting up recurring jobs using CRON on the server.  ·        Analysis of logs to check server for errors & troubleshoot them.   ·        Memory Management, Analysis of Memory Usage, Cache & swap management.  ·        Performing Deployments on the production servers.  ·        Disk management, Creating File systems, mounting / Un-mounting file systems. Setting up the file and Directory Permissions.  ·        Coordinated with the team members using Slack.  ·        Created MOP’s for operations team and created MOP reviews and official handoff documents for the handoff.  ·        Provided 24x7 on call support on daily rotation basis.    Environment: Terraform (v0.10.2), GIT LAB (9.4.5), Centos 6.5, Centos 7.2, JSON, XML, Jenkins, CHEF, Ansible, ICINGA (2.8.4), ELK (6.3.5), Rabbit MQ, SPLUNK, Kibana, Atlassian JIRA Project Management Software (v7.2.15), Atlassian Confluence (6.6.7), Slack (3.3.4), Hip Chat (V2.3.1). Systems Administrator Tech Veda INC - Dallas, TX January 2017 to May 2017 Daily work includes creating escalation tickets to clients and handling issues reported  by them maintaining SLA.  • Day to day work involves troubleshooting the issue by checking relevant service (web  server, mail and network related) related logs and actions to resolve the issue.  • Automated Alert Monitoring through Open Source applications such as Nagios.  • Migration of Development hosts from physical boxes to VM's.  • Automation of routine work with help of scripts and Internal tools.  • Rotating On-Call Support.  • Managing User and Group Administration.  • Disk administration, Creating File systems, mounting / Un-mounting file systems.  • Setting up the file and Directory Permissions.  • Working on Nagios monitoring systems related issues.  • Yum configuration & package installation.  • Installation and configuration of NFS, Samba.  • Raid and LVM configuration, troubleshooting and Mounting NFS share  • Coordinate, monitor and troubleshoot to isolate and diagnose common system  • problems: document system events to ensure continuous functioning. Recommend  • course of action and implement as approved.  • Utilize standard corporate tools to record changes, service requests, and problem  activities for tracking purposes.    Environment: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.x/6.x, 7.x, CentOS 6.x, NFS Server, Nagios, Confluence, JIRA, NFS, SAMBA, LVM. Systems Administrator ObjectTrees Soft LTD - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2015 to December 2015 • Providing L1 support for Linux servers. We have 4000+ servers for user permissions. Monitoring all these servers and fix the issue or escalate issues, if there are any issues related to hardware and application perspective.  • Handling calls and raising Incidents.  • Monitoring all Servers using Nagios/Thruk monitoring tools.  • Customer Support for Linux application via Online Chat, Telephonic, Tickets and Remote Access.  • Package Updating through YUM Installation.  • Production Server monitoring via SSH/Console and resolving performance issues on servers.  • Creating and extending file system in Logical volume manager.  • Managing user quota which includes disk quota and bandwidth quota.  • Configuring the access control list (ACL) and sticky bit.  • Implementing Hard and Soft links.  • Installation/Up-gradation of Linux package via yum/rpm tool.  • Setting up CRON jobs on the server.  • Analysis of logs to check server for errors & troubleshoot them.  • User account (Domain and local) and password management in production environment.  • Providing access to users on production environment and Troubleshoot access related issue.  • Configuring SAMBA, Apache web server, YUM, NTP and DNS for Linux network environment.  • Memory Management, Analysis of Memory Usage, Cache & swap management.  • Monitoring and managing multipath, network bonding and network share.  • Remote Support via VNC, SSH, Putty, Teamviewer.  • Creating JIRA tickets based on issues.  • Monitoring Tools: Nagios, Thruk.  • Provide 12x7 On-call Escalation Support.    Environment: RHEL 5.x, 6.x, Cent OS 5.x, Service Now, Nagios/Thruk, YUM/RPM, SSH, LVM, SAMBA, Apache web server, CRON, NTP, DNS, putty, Team viewer, JIRA. Education Master of Science in Advanced Computer Networking and Security University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO 2016 to 2017 Bachelor of Technology in Design Software G.M.R Institute of Technology (Autonomous) 2011 to 2015 Skills CHANGE MANAGEMENT (2 years), CHEF (1 year), Configuration Management (Less than 1 year), documentation (Less than 1 year), GIT (3 years), Integration (Less than 1 year), INTEGRATOR (Less than 1 year), JIRA (2 years), JSON (1 year), Mac (Less than 1 year), Mac OS. (Less than 1 year), Nagios. (Less than 1 year), NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (Less than 1 year), NFS (Less than 1 year), Project Management (1 year), Splunk. (1 year), XML (1 year), Linux, Devops Certifications/Licenses CCNA December 2018 to December 2021 VCP July 2018 to Present Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Planning & Execution — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively plan and manage resources to accomplish organizational goals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ookey13oq2g5watk Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILL SUMMARY:    Operating Systems RHEL, CentOS, Windows, Mac OS.  Continuous Build Terraform  Configuration Management CHEF  Continuous Integration Git Lab, Bit Bucket  Monitoring Tools Icinga, Nagios, Thruk  Disk Management LVM  Package Management RPM, YUM  File Sharing NFS, SAMBA  File System Ext 3, Ext 4, XFS  User Management IPA  Project management JIRA  Log Format Tools SPLUNK  Programming Languages JSON, XML, Shell  Documentation Tools Confluence