DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer - Google Mountain View, CA Work Experience DevOps Engineer Google - Mountain View, CA May 2017 to Present • Migrated few physical servers (Windows and Linux) into the Google Cloud Platform. This provided better high availability (HA) and allowed to reduce the dependency on remote datacenters.  • Used GIT for source code version control and integrated with Jenkins for CI/CD pipeline, code quality tracking and user management with build tool Maven and written Maven pom.xml build script.  • Worked with VMWARE tools like vCenter & vSphere to manage VM's running on ESXi cluster nodes and experience in working with vMotion to migrate running virtual machines from one physical server to another with zero downtime.  • Worked on branching, tagging, develop, manage Pre-commit, Post-commit hook scripts and maintaining the versions in Source Code Management (SCM) tools such as GIT, on Linux and Windows platforms and SCM client tools like GitLab, GitHub.  • Implemented Maven builds to automate JAR/WAR files and developed automated deployment scripts using Maven and Python to deploy war files, properties file and worked on Maven for building of deployable artifacts such as war & jar from source code and pushing the built artifacts to Nexus Repository.  • Extensive experience of designing and developing software applications with Microsoft Visual studio and .NET Framework various versions using C#, ASP.NET.  • Used the continuous Integration tools such as Jenkins for automating/Scheduling the build processes and worked on Jenkins along with Python scripts to automate routine jobs. Configured CI/CD tools to implement Blue - Green deployment methodology for reducing down time in Production environment.  • Built end to end CI/CD Pipelines in Jenkins to retrieve code, compile applications, perform tests and push build artifacts to Nexus Google Cloud Platform (GCP) as a part of POC.  • Implemented and maintained CI environments using Jenkins, performing deployments, packaging, build optimization, staging, defect tracking (JIRA), and root cause analysis, Smoke testing, Operation support and service delivery over web/app servers like Tomcat, WebLogic.  • Experience in writing Ansible playbooks, created inventories, custom playbooks written in YAML language, encrypted the data using Ansible Vault and maintained role-based access control by using Ansible Tower and Implemented IT orchestration using Ansible to run tasks in a sequence which can work on different servers.  • Set up the Chef development kit on a workstation, including the Chef-client using Chef DK installer and managed the knife command-line to provide an interface between a local Chef Bookshelf (the repository) and the Chef Server using Bash scripts to automate the deployment process.  • Integrated Docker container-based test infrastructure to Jenkins CI test flow and set up build environment integrating with Git and Jira to trigger builds using Web-Hooks and Slave Machines which involved in POC on Docker and used Docker registry, Docker-compose, Links, Docker bridge.  • Installing and configuring tools like Splunk for application servers, Integration with Splunk, which offers a pre-built information base of critical dashboards and reports and deployed new Splunk systems and Monitor Splunk internal logs from the monitoring Console (MC) to identify and troubleshoot existing or potential issues.  • Installed, configured, maintained, deployed, updated, monitored, performance tuning on Linux. Experienced in monitoring and debug performance issues on different OS Linux (RHEL & Centos).  Environment: GCP, Linux, Perl, Ansible, Chef, Jenkins, Splunk, Nexus, Ruby, JIRA, GIT, Maven, Docker, Bash, WebLogic. Build & Release Engineer AT&T - Atlanta, GA November 2015 to April 2017 • Worked on Hudson, Jenkins for continuous integration and for the end to end automation for all build and deployments including setting up pipeline jobs and upstream/downstream job configurations in Jenkins.  • Managed in Continuous integration system with GIT version control repository for the build process, whenever check-in's come from the developer.  • Managed services like IAM, Security groups, AWS Snapshots and creating volume from the snapshots, S3, DNS configuration in Route 53, Load Balancing, Auto Scaling, AMI.  • Managed AWS EC2 instances utilizing Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancing and Glacier for our QA environments as well as infrastructure servers for GIT and Chef. Automated the regular build and deployment processes for pre-prod and prod environments using Tools such as Maven following the Software Implementation Plan.  • Worked in areas of Jenkins like Plugin Management, master/slave configuration, Securing and scaling Jenkins, integrating Code Analysis, Performance issues, Analytics and Test Phases to complete the CI/CD pipelines within Jenkins.  • Worked with Groovy scripts in Jenkins to execute jobs for a continuous integration pipeline where Groovy Jenkins Plugin and Groovy Post Build Action Plugin is used as a build step and post build actions.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tool and automated the build and deploy processes using Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Used Nexus and Artifactory Repository Managers for Maven builds and used Maven dependency management to deploy snapshot and release artifacts to Nexus to share artifacts across projects.  • Used JIRA for ticketing and as well as defect tracking system and configure various workflows, customizations and plug-ins for JIRA bug/issue tracker, integrated Jenkins with JIRA, GitHub, Maven.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub. Whenever a new GitHub branch gets started, Jenkins, the Continuous Integration server, automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  • Worked on LINUX/UNIX system builds, administration, Installations, Upgrades, Troubleshooting on different distributions, such as Ubuntu, CentOS, RedHat, RHEL 4.x/5.x/6. x. Worked on Windows NT/8/12/12R2 servers.  • Installed, managed and Configured monitoring tool like Splunk for monitoring the log files, Network Monitoring, log trace monitoring and the hard drive status.    Environment: AWS, Linux, Perl, Nagios, Ruby, JIRA, GIT, Maven, Bash, SDLC, Apache Tomcat Servers, RHEL 4.x/5.x/6. x, Java, Python, DynamoDB, Cassandra, Shell Scripts, XML, UNIX, MS Office. Systems Administrator Tibco Pune, Maharashtra - IN April 2014 to March 2015 • Installation, configuration and administration of 200+ RedHat Linux servers and support for Servers using kickstart based network installation.  • Deployed and administered Microsoft SQL Server in standalone and clustered environments.  • Managed, and supported Windows 7, Server 2008, Linux, VMware and Active Directory domain network in multi-locations.  • Installation, configuration and administration of Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere.  • Responsible for installing and configuring VMware setup and Worked on deployment of applications on VMware and VCenter.  • Administration of user accounts adding and deleting accounts and assigning permission and ownership to various user groups.  • File system tuning, growing, and shrinking with VERITAS File system and LVM  • Installed and configured DHCP, DNS, TCP/IP, UDP, FTP, NFS server and clients, Assigning IP addresses to client hosts, and performed Troubleshooting.  • Utilized KICKSTART, SSH, FTP, AUTOFS, User Management, Disk Management and Swap Partition/Files management.  • Involved in complete Administration tasks on UNIX, RedHat Linux and Solaris and documentation for the projects executed.  • Worked with supporting 24x7 production computing environments and providing on-call and weekend support.    Environment: LVM, Kickstart, DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP, FTP, TFTP, NFS Terminal Services, SSH, SNMP, SMTP, NFS, Microsoft Windows, Linux, VMware workstation, virtual box, Red Hat. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Wilmington University May 2018 Skills Docker, Git, Jenkins, Perl, Python, Ruby, Scripting, Linux, Solaris, Chef, Nagios, Virtualization, Configuration management, Maven, Vmware, Cassandra, Mongodb, Splunk, Version control, Bash, Devops, AWS Certifications/Licenses AWS developer July 2018 to July 2020 Additional Information Skills and Expertise  ? Cloud Technologies:  ? Containerization: AWS, Google Cloud  ? Configuration Management and Automation: Docker, Kubernetes  ? Virtualization Technology: Chef, Ansible  ? CI/CD Tools: VMware, vSphere, Oracle Virtual Box.  ? Build Tools: Jenkins  ? Database Systems: Maven  ? Monitoring Tools: MySQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB, Cassandra.  ? Log Management Tools: Nagios  ? Version Control Systems: Splunk  ? Scripting Languages: GIT  ? Linux Distribution Systems: Bash, Shell, Python, Java, Perl, Ruby.  RHEL, Centos7, Ubuntu, Fedora, Solaris and Microsoft Windows.  ? Automation Testing Tools: Selenium.