Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Seattle, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator WASHINGTON FEDERAL SAVINGS - Seattle, WA May 2016 to September 2017 Joined the company as a contractor and converted to FTE due to outstanding performance for the company. Improved company resiliency by designing and implementing a DR strategy using VMware  SRM. Optimized virtualized environment by reclaiming underutilized resources, setting up alerts for monitoring the environment (Snapshot size, resource utilization, etc.) and streamlining systems  administration. Led effort to redesign backup infrastructure and architecture, incorporating both local and remote site backups and offsite storage. Was able to reduce duplicate backups, increase  responsiveness for restore requests, align backups with customer and auditors expectations, and increase organizational resiliency.  P: 360-250-4264 9512 Dayton Ave N  E: Nick.Stricklett@gmail.com Seattle, WA. 98103    Improved audit compliance rate by working closely with internal and external auditors to review and rewrite controls and commitments to be in line with how the business actually functioned. Became  primary point of contact to fulfill audit requests due to the thorough and quick responses. Reduced time  sinks by automating repetitive tasks using Powershell scripts, such as finding DHCP reservations, pulling  DFS properties, collecting server hardware information, and audit file properties on remote servers.  Other tasks included, but were not limited to, development and documentation of processes and procedures, supporting remote DR site and its associated applications, managing projects in coordination with other teams to meet deadlines, creating hardware refresh road-maps, and converting as much of our physical data centers into virtualized environments wherever it was prudent. Was responsible for  optimizing existing monitoring and developing new standards for emerging systems, maintaining key  systems, as well as providing top class customer service to all users that were supported by our systems.  Participated in maintaining a 24x7 environment, including taking part in an on call rotation. Jr. Systems Administrator MAJIQ Inc - Redmond, WA August 2013 to May 2016 Began as an IT technician responsible for 100 user systems, both local and remote on call 24x7. Roles  included, but were not limited to, system troubleshooting and repair, user administration and education,  imaging systems for user onboarding (Windows 7 and 8.1), tape backup management, WSUS patch  approval and deployment, initialization and configuration of new hosts added to existing VMware  cluster, building new server rack, and conversion of old hardware to virtual servers. Responsible for implementation of new encryption standard for 27 businesses. Built and configured servers for  customers stationed around the globe including Australia, Europe, and North America. Contributed to the standardized and streamlined build processes across multiple platforms. Heavily involved with  domain migration to new production standard. Established standards and procedures for migrating users to new domain using USMT. Promoted to Jr. Systems Administrator in 2014 and overtook responsibility of maintaining health and integrity of all servers, both physical and virtualized. Led project to virtualize  remote office in Gibsons, CA. Provided 24x7 support for all customer servers as well, managing hundreds of servers both internationally and locally. Was part of team responsible for rebuilding and virtualizing  existing physical infrastructure. Education Associate of Applied Science in Applied Science LAKE WASHINGTON INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - Kirkland, WA January 2012 to August 2013 Skills DFS (1 year), DHCP (1 year), CRISIS MANAGEMENT (Less than 1 year), CUSTOMER RELATIONS (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year) Additional Information • Operating Systems: Windows Server (2008R2 manager, Quantum Tape library  - 2012R2) • Server hardware: Dell, HP, basic UCS  • Networking: basic IPv4, basic VLAN • Storage: basic NetApp, Nimble  • Additional Proficiencies: Scripting (Basic • Monitoring: basic Solarwinds, basic Nagios  PowerShell) • Protocols: TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, Basic DFS    Personal Skills:  • Adept at communicating technical subjects to • Critical thinker  non-technical roles • Excellent track record in Crisis Management  • Strong and effective communicator • Ethical decision making in business processes  • Quick learner • Exceptional customer relations