Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Industrial Electrical Company Modesto, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Industrial Electrical Company 2012 to Present Current long term projects:  Implementation and administration of Microsoft Dynamics    In my current role I serve as the lead for day-to-day operations. Under the supervision of the IT Director, I handle tasks such as leading weekly IT meeting, serving as the  escalation point for teammates ( Systems Analyst and IT Support Specialist), and making decisions for IT purchasing/consulting.    Day-to-day:  Manage Windows 2003/08/12 Server environments utilizing Active Directory, DHCP,  VPN, IIS, Microsoft SQL Server 20xx, Microsoft Clustering Services (MSCS), and Storage  Area Network (SAN) configurations    Manage purchasing and warranty contracts for IT hardware and consulting.    As lead Sys Admin, I handle all disaster recovery scenarios. From our server  infrastructure to desktop level. Our current backup solution for VM's is Dell vRanger and for our physical servers we use Macrium.    Network administration is also a big part of my job. We use Untangle to manage our  network policy. It serves as our Firewall/Web Filter/Spyware Blocker/Intrusion  Prevention.    We are in a Windows Domain Environment, all company machines are joined to the domain. Using the Microsoft Deployment toolkit we have streamlined the way we  deploy machines. We can have a bare metal machine production ready within an hour.    Telephony: We run a hybrid solution on-site. Our PRI connects to our Cisco 2800 box,  which feeds the VoIP phones in the company. I am competent in Cisco CME, and can do  intermediate tasks. We have slowly been migrating to Microsoft Lync for its Unified  Communications ability, about 50% of the users onsite are running off of Microsoft Lync  phones. 50% of the work to get this done was done in-house, the rest was outsourced.    Deployed Microsoft Exchange on-premise    Filemaker database administration  Hardware:  HP Proliant Gen 7 &8 servers  HP MSA storage  HP network switches Systems Analyst Industrial Electrical Company 2011 to 2012 Supporting over 100 workstations in 3 separate branches (Modesto, Fresno, Sac)  Purchasing agent for companywide IT needs  Help Desk (Spiceworks)  Admin for user access and permissions (Active Directory)  Database development (Filemaker)  Backup and imaging for desktop machines (Symantec BESR & Macrium Reflect) Education Associate's of Science in Computer Science Modesto Junior College 2006 to 2008 Links http://Linkedin.com/in/joelsalinas209