Associate Systems Administrator Associate <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Southington, CT ? Possessing two years of vast experience in the field of Computer Hardware & Networking where Planning, Implementation, Administration and troubleshooting are involved with multiple platforms of OS viz., Microsoft Windows XP, 2003, 2008, 2012, Windows 7. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Systems Administrator Trisha Computer and IT Consultants - Connecticut March 2016 to Present Systems Administrator Techno Cops INS June 2014 to January 2016 Job Responsibilities  ? Administrating and troubleshooting 2003 server (workgroup model).  ? Managing user accounts and giving share & security level permissions.  ? Responsible to install, set up, maintain network and also configure the peripherals, cabling and equipments accordingly as per the requirement.  ? Responsible for maintaining the company strategy like designing, implementing and maintenance of enterprise network components.  ? Responsible to monitor whether all the components are available for successful communication.  ? Responsible for maintaining the Backup network, hardware, software, files on a regular basis accordingly as per the company policies.  ? Timely analyze whether any repairs or replacements is needed.  ? Managing data base of server & creating new users accounts.  ? Responsible for configuring & troubleshooting NETGEAR & CISCO ROUTER.  ? Responsible for configuring & troubleshooting SWITCHES.  ? Responsible for troubleshoot Microsoft windows issues.  ? Responsible for configuring & troubleshooting Microsoft outlook accounts.  ? Responsible for creating new Microsoft outlook accounts for new users.  ? Monitoring complete network & providing network statistics.  ? Responsible for the installation of operating system windows 7.  ? Responsible for the installation of software's like antivirus, MS-office, adobe & acrobat reader etc.  ? Responsible for maintaining the network & troubleshooting the network related issues.  ? Responsible for maintaining & troubleshooting network printers.  ? Responsible for troubleshooting Internet issues.  ? Responsible for sharing the network printers.    Achievements/Contributions    ? Rewarded by Vice president for the successful completion of new infra structure configuration in new office premesis like cabling, designing used in the organization using CISCO router under pressure.  ? Rewarded by Adt. Vice president as Star of the month for process implementation in Network systems using new technologies. Education Bachelor's of computer application in IT computer vinayka university - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2014 to 2017 Skills MCSE (1 year), Comptia A+ (2 years) Military Service Branch: mos 92y Service Country: United States Rank: private E1 Additional Information Expertise    ? Identifies, diagnoses, and resolves Level One problems for users of the mainframe, personal Computer software and hardware, Internet and new computer technology.    ? Provides one-on-one end-user problem resolution over the phone for user approved Personal Computer (PC) software.  ? Delivers, tags, sets up and assists in the configuration of end-user PC desktop hardware, software and peripherals.  ? Diagnoses and resolves end-user network or local printer problems, PC hardware problems and mainframe, e-mail, Internet, WLAN and local-area network access problems.  ? Coordinates timely repair of PC computer equipment covered by third-party vendor maintenance agreements    ? Able to provide a full range of support and client relationship services ranging from first through to third line support and customer on-site visits.    ? Able to work independently and within a team-spirited environment.  ? Attention to details with a desire to create high quality products.  ? Strong presentation skills.  ? Good knowledge and understanding of the network infrastructure and protocols such as TCP/IP, HTTP, etc.,    ? Desktop (PCs, Laptops and Peripherals) hands-on experience for both hardware and software.    ? Helps install local area network cabling systems and equipment such as network interface cards, hubs and switches.    ? Groups customers by keywords for profiling, sales and marketing campaigns, training.    ? Supports multi-message campaigns via e-mail, mail etc.    ? Technical Skills: Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer Certified  ? Windows 2000, XP, Server 2003, 2008, 2012  ? Ms office excel, word, powerpoint, Hardware & networking etc.,  ? Good at Presentation & Communication skills.    Assets    ? Hardworking, Self-confident, meets deadlines on task entrusted and ample analyzing capacity.  ? Takes Initiative and no additional directions are required once work is explained and assigned.