Linux Systems Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Part-time work Hampton, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator SAIC - Hampton, VA October 2016 to Present Provide Systems Administration and application support to NASA Langley’s SACD Directorate on a variety of cluster, server, and desktop platforms to include Redhat Linux 5/6/7, CentOS 5/6/7, and Ubuntu 12/14.  Applications include various commercial and custom-developed analysis software, graphics software packages, job distribution and queuing software, as well as license managers, compilers, and software development utilities.     Routine duties include applying vendor patches; tuning hardware and software; troubleshooting; hardware/software upgrades, compiling software, data center planning, end user support/consultation, configuring / maintaining backups, and security monitoring and compliance.     Limited on-call work after hours is required during special situations. Systems Administrator Tridium - Fort Belvoir, VA September 2015 to April 2017 Currently support the Army Modeling and Simulation Office to train the FA57 and CP36 in the Army Battle Command Systems (ABCS), and Simulations. Help run a lab of thirty plus computers and servers, which consists of multiple platforms of AGM windows operating systems, and Red Hat Linux systems. These operating systems have ABCS, and Simulation software loaded on them that have to communicate with each other in the Live Virtual Constructive (LVC) environment. I assist the teachers in different aspect as there instructional sessions over a 6 to 8 week time period.     Have provided IT / systems administration support for various training exercises. Maintains local area networks running Unix, Linux, and multiple Windows platforms; troubleshoots and repairs internet connectivity with effective security safeguards to prevent unauthorized intrusion; Administrates a government Simulation laboratory, with over 150 Unix-based systems; provides software and hardware support for lab employees. Supports the Microsoft Office suite and various internet and email programs; configured and maintained Linux DHCP, DNS, Email (sendmail), Samba, and apache web servers; Configured and maintained a Windows Active Directory server. Installed, maintained, and configured Windows 2003 Exchange, DNS, DHCP, IIS servers. Order and inventory of all equipment. Education Computer Science Bethel High School - Hampton, VA September 1993 to July 1997 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Linux, Active Directory