Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator Hendersonville, TN To continue building and refining skills in the consistently changing landscape of technology. Embrace new and undefined projects. Build on current infrastructure. Lead, mentor, and collaborate as a member of an effective team. Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Education Networks of America July 2016 to Present • Management of 90+ Windows Servers.  • Management of 20+ Centos 7 Servers.  • Heavier reliance on PowerShell scripting.  • Active Directory domain, group policy creation.  • ADFS and Proxy configuration.  • PowerShell experience: Automation and optimization.  • Microsoft Dynamics on-premise server implementation. Application install and configuration and maintenance.  • VM build and deployment, using Hyper V and KVM virtualization.  • Office365 management: Global Admin  • SharePoint 2016 on premise installation and configuration.  • Fundamental experience with Cisco Switch IOS, port configuration.  • Built DUO two factor authentication integration.  • Built central logging Graylog server.  • Backup and restore of MSSQL databases from Management Studio.  • Attached applications to MSSQL, MariaDB, MongoDB  • Assist in the design and refine of team operations.  • Provide technical and best practice mentoring.  • Lead team projects and deliver delegation of tasks.  • Assist with third tier user support.  • Maintain personal and team Customer first focus.  • Be in front of new technology.  • Take part in corporate planning.  • Provide technical experience to aid business decisions.  • Draft start to finish project plans.  • Implement and complete projects.  • Deliver infrastructure to the organization on time and operational.  • Work independently or on a team.  • Inform users to changes or improvements to enterprise technology.  • Understand 3rd party licensing and auditing.  • Plan, purchase, and reconcile within corporate budgeting. Systems Administrator Education Networks of America June 2014 to July 2016 • Management of 300+ Devices.  • Support of ~220 users.  • Built WDS server.  • Understand the technology needs of users.  • Provide technical assistance to users.  • Utilize enterprise applications to protect company data.  • Offer employees a 20-minute response time to tickets.  • Purchase and test company equipment.  • Meet with vendors and understand contracts in the corporate environment  PROJECTS    • Technical lead during company merge: Part of planning team from the genesis. Offering technical expertise to integration challenges. Built and deployed domain controllers. Designed Active Directory and Group Policy. Met with technical leadership to maintain current corporate culture during implementation of new technologies. Built two-way Active Directory forest trust and Office365 organizational trust. Drafted team plans for adding users and devices to domain. Drafted plans for acquisition of employee support.  • Microsoft Dynamics: Took lead in the redeployment of Microsoft Dynamics CRM. Company was in the process of earning buy in but previous builds we're unstable. I familiarized myself with the platform design per Microsoft's best practice documentation. Rebuilt frontend, backend, and SQL servers for a new QA environment. Then added ADFS and proxy functionality to mirror production. After it was successfully tested, I rebuilt the production environment using same methodologies. Providing a solid platform for users and developers.  • DUO two factor authentication: Organization made the decision to use 2FA. Team decided on DUO. Familiarized myself with how the technology worked. Team decision to protect Office365 applications first. Communicated to leadership about rollout cadence. Built proxy servers hosting DUO Access Gateway. Federated with Office365. Planned phased user enrollment. Drafted user communication. Education Associate of Science in Engineering Northwest Vista College 2009 to 2011 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (4 years), ADFS (3 years), MICROSOFT DYNAMICS (3 years), LINUX (1 year), Hyper V (4 years), KVM (3 years), Office 365 - Global Admin (3 years), Powershell (3 years), Microsoft Licensing (4 years), Windows 7 (4 years), Windows 10 (2 years), Windows Server (4 years), Sharepoint (2 years), DNS (3 years), Purchasing (4 years), CRM (3 years), Documentation (3 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Powershell Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mikecgarza1978 Certifications/Licenses MCSA June 2016 to Present Windows Server 2012  Certification number F715-5677 MCSE May 2017 to Present Productivity   Certification Number G143-2812 Additional Information SKILLS    • MCSE Productivity  • MCSA Server 2012  • Windows Sever  • Centos 7  • ADFS  • Office365 management  • SharePoint 2016  • Cisco  • DUO  • Active Directory  • PowerShell  • Microsoft Dynamics  • Virtualization: Hyper V, KVM  • Datacenter Server installation  • Linux Academy RHCSA course completion.    PROJECTS  • Technical lead during company merge: Part of planning team from the genesis. Offering technical expertise to integration challenges. Built and deployed domain controllers. Designed Active Directory and Group Policy. Met with technical leadership to maintain current corporate culture during implementation of new technologies. Built two-way Active Directory forest trust and Office365 organizational trust. Drafted team plans for adding users and devices to domain. Drafted plans for acquisition of employee support.   • Microsoft Dynamics: Took lead in the redeployment of Microsoft Dynamics CRM. Researched documentation to familiarized myself with the platform design using Microsoft’s best practices. Rebuilt frontend, backend, and SQL servers for a new QA environment. Then added ADFS and proxy functionality to mirror production. After it was successfully tested, I rebuilt the production environment using same methodologies. Providing a solid platform for users and developers.  • DUO two factor authentication: Organization made the decision to use 2FA. Team decided on DUO. Familiarized myself with how the technology worked. Team decision to protect Office365 applications first. Communicated to leadership about rollout cadence. Built proxy servers hosting DUO Access Gateway. Federated with Office365. Planned phased user enrollment. Drafted user communication.