Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Technician Miami, FL Work Experience Systems Administrator HP SPAIN 2013 to 2013 2013  Data Center Transformation Project and standardization of environments.  • Server virtualization and replacement of virtualized servers using VMWare.  • Installing and configuring servers with RedHat Linux-OS (different versions).  • Installing and configuring inventory tools, access and monitoring of HP.  • Solving the daily incidents in Servers Unix, Linux and Windows using Service Manager and Peregrine Servicenter Client.  • Configuration and maintenance services as Ntp (synchronization with corporate servers) Ssh (establishing trust relationships), FTP (file transfer between Linux-Windows servers), Multipath (installation and configuration service), Cron, Logrotate.  • Collection and analysis of SAR statistics.  • Making scripts to automate tasks. Systems Administrator STP GROUP 2012 to 2012 2012  Migration Project servers and disk arrays PepsiCo Iberia.  • Working with SUSE Linux Enterprise 11 and HP-UX servers.  • LVM configuration on the servers for the migration of Oracle DB. Mirror disk for the transfer of data.  • Repair damaged filesystems.  • Installing and configuring a monitoring system based on Pandora FMS for checking Linux (Ubuntu) and Windows (Server 2003 and 2008) servers. Access them through putty and Terminal Server. Systems Administrator EMTE SYSTEMS 2010 to 2012 Unification project systems of automatic Metro lines in Barcelona and Malaga.  • Configuration, operation and monitoring of HP- UX servers and Windows 2003. Remote access to them through putty and VNC.  • Programming and execution of scripts for performing different tasks testing and maintenance on servers.  • Telephone support for troubleshooting.  • Performing preventive maintenance project in which backups jobs and Windows Server 2003 (using Clonezilla ), ignites copies Unix servers, systematic review of Server logs are included.  • Project documentation on the corporate website.  • Installation and configuration of Open - Suse 11.3 server. NFS servers ( client and server functions ), ftp server ( vsftp ), samba, ntp.  • Testing in virtual machines with VMWare and Oracle VirtualBox Operator systems TSYSTEMS 2008 to 2010 Monitoring and troubleshooting.  • Monitoring services through Nagios.  • Operation Unix servers, Linux and Windows. Remote access to servers through Putty.  • Active Directory and Novell administration. Managing users, computers and printers on the network.  • Configuring Microsoft Outlook to work with Exchange.  • Resolution of incidents related to the network administration using the Peregrine Servicenter Client.  • Monitoring services through different tools such as HP OpenView, IBM Tivoli NetView. Education Bachelor in Electrical Enginneering Polytechnic Institute 2001 Electronics and Telecommunications Technician / High School 1988 Polytechnic Institute - Havana Additional Information SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS:    • LPIC 1 Certification (Linux Systems Administration). University P.Fabra. Barcelona, Spain.  • Course Linux Networking Systems. Barcelona, Spain.  • Course Windows 2003 Domain Configuration, System Administration.  Operating and managing directory. Barcelona, Spain.  • Certification Course networks on Windows 2003 and Operating systems.  CENSAI, Havana City, Cuba.