Linux Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Administrator - Vital Networks Group Cheverly, MD Work Experience Linux Administrator Vital Networks Group June 2015 to Present • Performed Security Administration on Linux systems  • Configuration of local yum repository and usage.  • Configured, setup and provisioned Servers for package Management functions  • Setup and configured Kernel Based Virtual Machines on Red hat Enterprise Servers  • Experience in Virtualization and Cloud Computing  • Performed installation and configuration of RHEL servers  • Used Access Control Lists to manage permissions on files and directories  • Managed users and groups in a RHEL enterprise network  • Used Remote Desktop and Virtual Private Network Appliances for Server Configuration  • Implemented SSH version - 2 to secure communications between servers  • Monitoring system infrastructure and network with Nagios.  • Installation and configuration of Domain Name Service.  • Experience with Role Based Access Control Security Administration  • Performance Monitoring and capacity planning on Linux Servers  • Extensive experience working with Yum commands for packages and package groups  • Hardening systems with Security Enhanced Linux and other security measures. Systems Administrator Mega Group Inc February 2014 to May 2015 • Configured RAID controllers and disk storage shelves.  • Utilized kick-Start and ignite for systems builds and recovery.  • Ensured that client's computers have access to SERVERS and other Network resources  • Compression and Decompression of files and performed Backup and Recovery.  • Maintains data files and Monitor system configuration to ensure data integrity.  • Experience with network configurations including knowledge of switches and firewalls.  • Provided customer service to resolve computer issues.  • Maintained records of daily ticket transactions, problems and remedial actions  • Used Web based ticketing System to transmit client request to senior technical teamInstalled,  configured and managed software.  • Network configuration and troubleshooting of network access for servers and clients.  • Managing system processes and installed services.  • Configured, implemented and maintained hardware RAID storage technology Education Bachelor of Science degree University of Lagos Certifications/Licenses Certified Systems Administrator Vmware Certified Data Center Virtualization Associate