Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Motivated IT professional seeking to secure a challenging position that will provide an opportunity to enhance and grow my skills, while utilizing my Network and Systems Administration, Desktop Support, and IT Management background and experience. Stockton, CA Responsible for effective provisioning, installation/configuration, operation, and maintenance of systems hardware and software and related infrastructure. Participating in technical research and development to enable continuing innovation within the infrastructure. Ensuring that system hardware, operating systems, software systems, and related procedures adhere to organizational values. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Dorfman Pacific Co. - Stockton, CA July 2015 to Present Responsibilities  Install new/rebuild existing servers and configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements. Develop and maintain installation and configuration procedures.Contribute to and maintain system standards.Research and recommend innovative, and where possible automated approaches for system administration tasks. Identify approaches that leverage resources and provide economies of scale.    Accomplishments  Configured infrastructure for a remote office including rebuilding rack servers, installing/configuring ESXi, NAS array with iSCSI targets, core switch configuration, deploying VMs and configuring wifi APs. Upgraded all switches in main distribution center to Dell Force10 including VLAN reconfiguration.     Skills Used  SAN, NAS, switch configuration Cisco/Dell/HP, CompTia A+, Network+, Security+; Group Policy configuration; Customer Relations Analyst; Imaging (Symantec Ghost Suite); Network configuration and support; Desktop and laptop; Active Directory; VoIP; Printers/Copiers (HP, Xerox, Ricoh, Panasonic); WSUS; Virtualization (VMware); Windows (All Versions); Microsoft Office (All Versions); DHCP; DNS; Windows Server 2003 – 2012 Network Administrator Heald College - Stockton, CA November 2012 to April 2015 Managed the IT Department for the entire campus. Provided systems administration support for Windows systems including server and workstation upgrades, backup and disaster recovery monitoring, user account setup and security administration. Commended for technical, analytical and problem-solving skills; effective task prioritization; and customer service orientation. Education AA Network Systems Administration Heald College AA Humanities SUNY Morrisville Skills SAN, NAS, switch configuration Cisco/Dell/HP, CompTia A+, Network+, Security+; Group Policy configuration; Customer Relations Analyst; Imaging (Symantec Ghost Suite); Network configuration and support; Desktop and laptop; Active Directory; VoIP; Printers/Copiers (HP, Xerox, Ricoh, Panasonic); WSUS; Virtualization (VMware); Windows (All Versions); Microsoft Office (All Versions); DHCP; DNS; Windows Server 2003 – 2012