Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - AirClean Systems Raleigh, NC An experienced, customer service oriented technician and innovative problem solver, comfortable in critical, high availability environments. I seek to engage my current skill set in a position that will challenge me as well as foster my passion for learning new systems and environments. Work Experience Systems Administrator AirClean Systems March 2015 to Present Accomplishments  Developed and Integrated heterogeneous systems  Deployed and configured CentOS 7 Virtual Machines for Web Development, System Monitoring Using Nagios CORE, and rsyslog    Reduced projected infrastructure spending by 150%  Consolidated physical hardware with the use of VMWare ESXI 5.5. This migration was the backbone for the scalability currently in place, resulting in lower management costs, and increased reliability.    Designed and Implemented 100 user domain    Following key business objectives, scalably designed and implemented Windows 2012 R2 domain with key services including DHCP, DNS, File, Print, Scan, Certificate Authority. Using Powershell scripting automated the user and policy configuration for 100 users reducing deployment time by 75%    Garnered recognition for all issues related to IT  Adeptly and tactfully simplified complex problems in order to improve customer understanding. Proficient multi-tasker, able to troubleshoot unrelated issues on several accounts simultaneously. Driven to assist with direction through projects, supervised others tasks to ensure the work was completed properly. Sought out by co workers to conduct quality assurance and process verification of tasks conducted by all levels of engineers. IT Administrator Signals Communication Systems Inc October 2012 to March 2015 Accomplishments  Reduced Outages 20% & mean time to repair by 30%  The writing of granular Root Cause Analysis for both internal and customer problems within the newly configured ticketing system led to a more efficient and cost effective troubleshooting practice.    Migrated from NT to Server 2008 R2  The planned migration from the de-centralized, unsupported NT domain controller to a new Dell 2008 R2 Domain controller including a 12TB NAS, DHCP, DNS, File Server, and Hyper-V host for 4 virtual Machines increased reliability, while reducing management time. This migration coupled with a network upgrade from 10mb to full gigabit compatibility saw a dramatic increase in network performance and reliability.    Went from 0% Disaster Recoverability to 100% Disaster Recoverability  Independently planned and implemented new backup policy and procedures using manufacturer best practices regarding Grandfather-Father-Son method.    Migrated unsupported EOL servers to Virtual Environment  Planned, Deployed, Maintained, and Optimized IT system infrastructure supporting 10 clients with over 6 hosts. Including migration from 3 hardware servers to Virtual Machine environment. Servers that were virtualized required the support and integration of proprietary software and hardware. DMH Computers Inc August 2012 to October 2012 Helpdesk    Accomplishments  Reduced Hard Drive Recycle time by 50%    Increased productivity through development and implementation of a data shredding center for safe recycling of Hard Disk Drives.    Demonstrated Exemplary customer service    While using both phone and remote troubleshooting technology proved by Kaseya agents, I was able to provide the highest level of customer service while also reducing ticket time through the use of my troubleshooting flowcharts.    Pulled and terminated cable    Installed copper and fiber cable infrastructure in desktop and datacenter environments Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Network Systems ITT Technical Institute December 2012 Additional Information Skills  Hyper-V End-User Cpanel LAMP  Network Design Cisco IOS Nagios  Windows Administration Troubleshooting Documentation  Cisco ASA VMware CentOS/Ubuntu