System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Newport News, VA Specialties: System Administration, SCCM,  Network Operating software  Windows/Linux Server administration  Virtualization and Virtual environments  Group Policy    I have detailed familiarity with:   SCCM 2012  Jetadvantage Security Manager  Microsoft Software including exchangeServer, MS-SQL, SharePoint, server 2003/2008/2012 R2  MySQL Sendmail, Vsphere, Vmware  SAN and NAS architectures   Blade and standalone servers  Firewalls and security  Norton Backup, symantec endpoint security, Forefront Endpoint Protection  printer server and security manager administration Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator LIEBHERR 2015 to May 2018 Primary focus on maintaining critical system and software administration. Year-round security auditing tasks and periodic project management. Tier 2 helpdesk and network/security infrastructure support.  Key Contributions:  ? Project Lead in implementing JetAdvantage Security Manager in partnership with HP across all North American Locations  ? Coordinated with Network and Security teams for year-round risk assessment and security auditing.  ? Integral role in Project Team converging parts and cost data to a new WAMAS system for Liebherr Parts and warehouse logistics  ? Key Role in Project Team transitioning from Dell Equalogic to Net-App, further maturing the NAS and SAN infrastructure.  ? Coordinate with IT Management in the building and maintaining of core system images and group policy via SCCM rollout Systems Administrator C2 TECHNOLOGIES 2012 to 2013 Responsible for effective provisioning, installation/configuration, operation, and maintenance of systems hardware and software. Coordinated daily with Programmers and SME's on    Key Contributions:  ? Racked and Configured all IBM Blade servers at Newport News and Vienne office locations  ? Coordinated and facilitated the implementation of Symantec Backup Exec for all system critical backups  ? Authored and published the daily preventative maintenance procedures for server room temperature monitoring, firewall monitoring, weekly network security spread sheets, weekly tape unit backups and scheduled tasks. Education Some college Skills SECURITY (3 years), BACKUPS (2 years), EXCHANGE, SERVER ADMINISTRATION, AUDITING (3 years), System Administrator, Vmware, Linux, Active Directory, System Admin Links http://linkedin.com/in/michael-radford-b114b732 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Present CompTIA Network+ Present CompTIA A+ Present VCP Present Additional Information HIGHLIGHT OF SKILLS    ? Group Policy Implementation  ? System Security  ? Information Management  ? Configuration Management    ? Project Leadership  ? Data Storage Solutions  ? Exchange Administration  ? Security Auditing    ? Backups/Recovery  ? Server Administration  ? Cost Benefit Analysis  ? Database Administration