IT administrator IT <span class="hl">administrator</span> IT administrator Work Experience IT administrator June 2014 to November 2017 Systems administrator January 2014 to May 2014 My duties included:    -Installing, supporting and maintaining severs or other computer systems    -Planning for and responding to service outages and other problems    -Project management for systems Education Diploma Institute of software technologies May 2016 to November 2016 Skills SECURITY (Less than 1 year), AUDITS (Less than 1 year), COMPUTER SECURITY (Less than 1 year), DISASTER RECOVERY (Less than 1 year), METRICS (Less than 1 year) Additional Information KEY COMPETENCIES:  Monitoring  ? Monitor the security of critical systems.  ? Monitor changes to highly sensitive computer security controls to ensure appropriate system administrative actions, investigate and report on noted irregularities.  ? Conduct network vulnerability assessments using tools to evaluate attack vectors, identify system vulnerabilities and develop remediation plans and security procedures.  ? Conduct routine social engineering tests and clean-desk audits.  ? Investigate potential or actual security violations or incidents in an effort to identify issues and areas that require new security measures or policy changes.  Strategy Development  ? Research new developments in IT security in order to recommend, develop and implement new security policies, standards, procedures and operating doctrines across a major global enterprise.  ? Define, establish and manage security risk metrics and track effectiveness.  ? Coordinate with third parties to perform vulnerability tests and create security authorization agreements and standards.  ? The ability to balance risk mitigation with business needs.  Disaster Recovery  ? Collaborate with business units to determine continuity requirements.  ? Conduct business impact analysis for vital functions; document recovery priorities of the key processes, applications and data.  ? Establish disaster recovery testing methodology.  ? Plan and coordinate the testing of recovery support and business resumption procedures while ensuring the recovery and restoration of key IT resources and data and the resumption of critical systems within the desired timeframe.