Storage Administrator Storage <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Storage Administrator Livermore, CA Work Experience Storage Administrator IDF - IL December 2015 to January 2018 Served as the resident Netapp and storage expert for an IDF command datacenter  ? Administered several Netapp controllers with multiple racks  ? Set up and maintained SAN based systems, including servers utilizing boot from SAN and LUNs  ? Performed day to day operations such as physically replacing drives and managing LUN and Volume sizes  ? Implemented OSSV, snapmirror, and snapshot backups  ? Regulated monitoring and quota management using PowerShell scripting  ? Spearheaded migration of vfilers from off site datacenters Systems Administrator IDF - IL October 2015 to January 2018 Administered a mission critical data center with over 200 servers on 4 different networks serving over 10,000 end users.  ? Administered servers running Windows Server 2003R2, 2008R2, and 2012R2  ? Administered and maintained Active directory and Exchange servers  ? Configured and administered DC, DNS, HUB, CAS, MBX and WINS servers  ? Configured Group Policy Objects, User and group objects, and over 20 OU's  ? Set up, maintained and supported a full Windows based infrastructure utilizing SCOM, SCCM, and PowerShell  ? Managed backups and disaster recovery solutions  ? Regulated policy using PowerShell scripting  ? Administered virtual servers in a VMware vCenter environment, including maintenance and administration of clustered ESX servers  ? Set up and administered a DR backup of an off site datacenter and performed failover recovery tests  ? Provided first level help desk support to high ranking officials Education Israeli Academy of Science and Arts - Jerusalem, IL September 2012 to July 2014 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (3 years), EXCHANGE (3 years), SCRIPTING (3 years), STORAGE MANAGEMENT (3 years), NETAPP (3 years), Vmware (3 years), Powershell (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS    Proficiency in Microsoft PowerShell scripting  Active directory and exchange  Netapp and HP storage management