System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Everlast Power San Francisco, CA Work Experience System Administrator Everlast Power - San Francisco, CA February 2015 to Present Responsible for constructing enterprise network in a fast growing start up; from physical segmentation to docker containers.    Multi-tasked to provide office staff with appropriate training as well as desktop support.    Developed scripts to automate network administration tasks and application deployments.    Collaborated with user experience design staff to keep e-commerce applications up to date. •  Commended for technical, analytical and problem-solving skills; effective task prioritization; and customer service orientation. • Educating personnel from office staff to executives about the rise of security issues; provided knowledge and enforced habits.    Reduced maintenance cost by 90% for all service calls; printer repairs, VoIP systems, shipping software.    Migrated CRM, rolled out from fully custom, poorly written obsolete software to SugarCRM.    Fixed issues with an organization's desktop computers and laptops, as well as handle concerns with servers and security issues affecting business networks. Systems Administrator AHP Welder - San Francisco, CA January 2016 to January 2017 Responsible for installing configuring, testing and maintaining operating systems, application software and system management tools.  Participated in design of the information and operational support systems.    Effectively rolled out business's email out of a desktop client and on to the cloud; migrated, maintained and quickly fixed issues in Outlook, Office365, OneDrive and other essential software.    Participated in moving a website to WordPress from a different platform. Updated plugins, configured multisite installs and much more in various types of content management systems.    Deployed Windows and Linux servers, Apache Web Servers on the businesses private network to host shipping database and other custom applications. Education Certification in Networking College of San Mateo - San Mateo, CA January 2009 to February 2011 Skills Active Directory (2 years), CRM (3 years), CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (3 years), Linux (5 years), security (3 years), System Administrator, Linux Administrator, Redhat, Vmware, Red Hat Additional Information Skills    Advanced physical workstation security skills (Creating, storing and managing secure passwords,  enabling BIOS passwords, lock-screens) (5 years), Data encryption (3 years), Sanitizing sensitive data  (4 years), Firewalld (3 years), SELinux (3 years), STIG Viewer (3 years), OpenDLP (Less than 1 year),  MyDLP (1 year), Linux (7 years), Debian (7 years), RHEL (5 years), CentOS (6 years), Ubuntu (5 years),  VMware vSphere and Workstation (3 years), VirtualBox (4 years), CRM (4 years), Active Directory (3  years), SEO (3 years), Wordpress (1 year), Firewalls (6 years)