Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - BEX Realty Deerfield Beach, FL To seek employment as a Linux Systems Administrator. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator BEX Realty - Boca Raton, FL 2017 to Present Responsible for all technical operations, support, and hardware at BEX Realty. Maintained and operated CentOS7 servers running the website, databases & email server. Designed internal  office network incorporating VPNs and VLANs. Designed and implemented robust backup  policy. Operated VoIP software and hardware to run in-house call center. Provided basic  technical supports to all office staff and Realtors. Responsible for purchasing all technology. Field Systems Technician H&R Block - Fort Pierce, FL 2015 to 2017 Setup Windows computers and maintained all technical hardware for 14 offices. Responsible  for all technology in the St. Luice and Indian River County offices. Needed to be on call in case any server, desktop or hardware failure Education Bachelor of Science in Statistics University of Florida - Gainesville, FL 2008 to 2015 Associate of Arts in Engineering Indian River State College - Fort Pierce, FL 2006 to 2008 Skills AWS (1 year), Bash (3 years), Database (2 years), FreeBSD (3 years), VoIP (1 year), System Administrator (2 years), Linux (8 years), Vmware (1 year), Redhat, System Admin, Linux Administrator Links http://boredstatistician.com Certifications/Licenses Red Hat Certified System Administrator August 2016 to August 2019 Additional Information Computer skills  Linux Skills Linux user since 2005. Operated physical, virtual, and cloud Linux servers in produc-  tion and testing environment  Linux Distributions CentOS7/RHEL7, cPanel, Debian, Ubuntu, Arch Linux  Other OSes pfSense/FreeNAS/FreeBSD, OpenBSD  Cloud Solutions Experience with AWS and Vultr.  Visualization Used VMWare and Proxmox in production environment  Networking Site-to-Site VPN with OpenVPN. Complimented VLANs, QoS, and traffic shaping  VoIP Installed and maintained 3CX PBX Phone Server.  Programming A  Bash Scripting, Python, R, LTEX  Database Ran and operated MySQL 5.6 Master/Slave cluster. Reasonable for database main-  Administration tenance, upgrades and troubleshooting