Eligibility advisor Eligibility advisor Systems Administrator Marietta, GA Work Experience Eligibility advisor HMS Holdings - Atlanta, GA December 2018 to July 2019 Process applications  Answering inbound calls  Process and sort mail  Data entry  Scanning  Filing Systems Administrator CIOX Health - Alpharetta, GA March 2018 to August 2018 Administrator for the engineering and database team.  Held important system meetings twice a week.  Send out email notifications and reminders. Medical Office Assistant Johns Creek Gastroenterology - Cumming, GA October 2017 to March 2018 Greet incoming patients, obtain needed documents and identification to ensure completion of billing information accurately.  Accept incoming calls and schedule patients appointments, and provider meetings as needed.•  Organize and maintain all confidential client files to be in compliance with HIPAA. Administrative Assistant Medlin Treatment Center - Marietta, GA March 2016 to September 2017 Performed all administrative duties for CEO and several Therapist.  Worked with adolescent patients and was responsible for their safety while in the facility.  Handled insurance verification, scheduled and administered psychological testing and communicated with therapist regarding results. Customer Service Representative Southeastrans - Atlanta, GA August 2015 to March 2016 Provided customer service support for high volume call center, speaking with over 200 patients, dispatchers, facilities, and transportation companies.  Identify, research and resolve customer issues using internal database and following up with completed call log and reports. Education Bachelors in Business Management and Healthcare Administration in Business Management and Healthcare Administration Briarcliff College - Patchogue, NY Skills Outlook, Administrative Assistant, Data Entry, Receptionist, Billing, MS Office, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Office, Quickbooks, Word, Excel, Filing, Scheduling Assessments Administrative Assistant — Proficient July 2019 Using basic scheduling, attention to detail, and organizational skills in an office setting. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/25ebn47ihykr0viy Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/z2zttxdgjua4aztj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.