Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Fort Collins, CO Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Advanced Micro Devices - Fort Collins, CO 2014 to Present ? Site IT support of 200 engineers at AMD's Fort Collins CPU core design center and, including all client workstations, VOIP phones and network access  ? Coordinated and entire site move from Longmont to Fort Collins including vendor coordination for all tel and data services  ? Fort Collins Data Center Support  ? Planned, built, opened and maintained a high availability, high density compute data center with 600 compute systems for nearly 9 years without a single facility related service outage  ? Successfully reduced data center utility costs by 20% ($5,000 per month) with a creative cooling strategy optimizing CRAC  units for load reduction while keeping N+1 compliance.  ?2014 consolidation of critical data center services from Fort Collins to Atlanta, GA for AMD’sdata center consolidation efforts to reduce bottom line expenses, migrating all physical hardware to virtual nodes  ? Remote Linux support for AMD's remote design centers across the U.S. including Sunnyvale, CA with over 1000 on site engineers,  escalation point for issues ranging from the desktop to the cloud, e-mail to the web  ? Remote VMware Vcenter administration for both server and client virtual installations  ? LSF (Load Share Facility) Cluster administration across AMD's 120,000 cpu core cloud. Assisted engineering with finding and eliminating long running, runaway jobs and optimizing cloud utilization  ? Proposed a project to create a desktop CPU class server farm to increase physical CPU design productivity by 40% over server  equivalent systems  ? Designed and implemented an infrastructure to deploy Microsoft Windows operating system images using Linux rsync and later Netapp  Snapmirror to keep OS images in sync across AMD's sites worldwide, reducing image compatibility issues entirely in the first year.  ? Responsible for AMD's SAMBA installations company wide enabling Windows clients access to NFS file systems  ? Lotus Domino administrator for AMD's Embedded products developer portal using Microsoft Cluster Services Systems Administrator National Semiconductor - NSC - Fort Collins, CO May 2001 to July 2005 ? Site IT support for 60 analog circuit design engineers in Fort Collins and an additional 30 users in Longmont, including all client  workstations, Nortel Networks Option 11c PBX and Audix voicemail systems.  ? Led the migration of Fort Collins users from Solaris to Linux system installations to cut capital expenses spent on Sun  workstations. Pioneered Linux kickstart installations and optimized X11 for Cadence engineering toolsets previously only  supported on Solaris platforms  ? Active Directory and Novell Netware administration  ? Successfully migrated a legacy Novell Netware domain to an Active Directory domain  ? Network and phone systems expansion lead for two separate buildouts to increase office space at the Fort Collins site Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Information Systems Colorado State University - Fort Collins, CO 1998 to 2001 Business Administration Metropolitan State College of Denver - Denver, CO 1997 to 1998 Skills ? Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows server and client, Red Hat Linux, Solaris, MacOS, Android and iOS ? Scripting skills: Python, Perl, Bash shell scripting ? Storage administration: Network Appliance OnTap, NFS, CIFS, SAMBA ? Network Services: NIS, DNS, DHCP, WINS, Linux Kickstart, Windows Deployment Server Additional Information ? Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows server and client, Red Hat Linux, Solaris, MacOS, Android and iOS  ? Scripting skills: Python, Perl, Bash shell scripting  ? Storage administration: Network Appliance OnTap, NFS, CIFS, SAMBA  ? Network Services: NIS, DNS, DHCP, WINS, Linux Kickstart, Windows Deployment Server