Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - La Torretta Resort Katy, TX Seasoned customer-centric, problem solving IT professional with over 8 years' experience; technical expert with a proven track record of providing insightful leadership in complex environments. Work Experience Systems Administrator La Torretta Resort 2017 to Present • Maintain security patches for all Windows computers and servers.  • Oversee and process all Active Directory requests and functionalities to include, Group Policy Management (planning, implementing, and troubleshooting) and Security.  • Manage and maintain all Meraki access points and switches through the Meraki dashboard.  • Configure SSIDs for groups and events and ensure conference rooms have LAN connectivity, and bandwidth utilization.  • Manage all Cisco catalyst 3500 switches while phasing them out to replace with Meraki.  • Facilitate all third party vendor calls and ensure complete resolution of all point-of-sale systems, property-management- systems and time clock issues.  • Responsible for all back office and guest room phones issues including CAT5/6 cable repairs and termination, networking issues, PBX configurations and extension preferences.  • Manage and maintain all IP based cameras and ensure connectivity to the server running EZ Watch Pro.  • Troubleshoot all printers including network and local via USB. Set up scan-to-email and e-fax, etc, as well as maintain an updated address book.  • Perform break/fix where needed and troubleshoot all mobile devices for wifi and email setups.    Key Accomplishments:  ? Successfully restored all network shares after a ransomware attack, with minimal downtime.  ? Successfully migrated 200 mailboxes from Exchange 2007 to Hosted Exchange 2016. Systems Administrator Odyssey Information Services 2016 to 2017 • Served as Senior [SME] Technical consultant for external clients, in an effort to provide outcomes, solutions and on-going support to existing accounts.  • Upheld daily responsibilities for successfully implementing back-up servers.  • Served as lead administrator overseeing Office 365 - managing email accounts, group access, mailboxes, organizational distribution lists, creations, modifications, and spam blocking.  • Oversaw and processed all Active Directory requests and functionalities to include, Group Policy Management (planning, implementing, and troubleshooting) and Security.  • Maintained end user support on mobile devices, throughout the organization.  • Served as additional senior support resource for Desktop Engineering team on escalated cases - as well as, dedicated remote support for executive sales team.    Key Accomplishments:  ? Solely responsible for implementing Anti-Virus solution (ESET) throughout the Texas Region (Central Zone) site offices  ? Seamlessly implemented organizational helpdesk solution for enterprise technical support. Systems Administrator M7 Services 2013 to 2015 • Served as administrative lead for enterprise hosted exchange, responsible for creating email accounts, resetting passwords and configuring Outlook issues.  • Oversaw and processed all Active Directory requests and functionalities to include, Group Policy Management (planning, implementing, and troubleshooting) and Security  • Managed registered domains by successfully configuring pertinent CNAME, Auto-Discover, and MX records.  • Provided mobile device support for iOS and Android, by way of configuring mail clients.  • Oversaw set up functions for local and network printers and drivers in support of end-users.  • Built, managed, and troubleshot virtual machines such as Oracle and VMWare.  • Effectively and efficiently drove all virus removals with ESET, Symantec, and Sophos.  • Successfully remediated TCP/IP, DNS, and DHCP issues.  • Performed O/S installs and administered/maintained Windows 2012/2008 Enterprise servers.  • Interfaced with DBAs, software development, network support personnel and vendors for efficient solutions.    Key Accomplishments:  ? Successfully led the organizational migration from Microsoft Office 2010 to Hosted Exchange 2013, for approximately 500 end users - with zero impact. Desktop Engineer Chevron 2012 to 2013 • Led the overall responsibility to manage Active Directory through proprietary interface/s, designed by enterprise Chevron engineers.  • Spearheaded responsibility for configuring and troubleshooting Microsoft Outlook via Problem/ Incident management methodologies while providing archiving and data file support.  • Worked closely and managed third party vendor engagements on escalated support issues.  • Troubleshot all printers including network and local via USB. Education AAS in Computer Information Technology San Jacinto College Skills EXCHANGE (4 years), CISCO (1 year), NETWORKING (1 year), MICROSOFT EXCHANGE (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT WINDOWS (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/icalvar Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ 2013 CompTIA Network+ 2019 Additional Information Technical Proficiencies:    Workstations / Servers / Networking:  ? Microsoft Windows Server 2003/2008/2012  ? Microsoft Windows XP/7/8/10  ? Microsoft Exchange Server 2007  ? Cisco network switching configuration