Loss Prevention Associate Loss Prevention Associate Vine Grove, KY Work Experience Loss Prevention Associate Academy Sports + Outdoors - Elizabethtown, KY July 2017 to Present - Provide prompt, friendly customer service by engaging customers in a friendly manner as they enter/exit the store  - Assist customers entering the store with return merchandise and marks items prior to directing customers to service desk  - Ensure vendors are properly signed in and provide vendor badge  - Act as a theft deterrent through physical presence and customer service  - Identify and communicate with management potential internal and external theft issues Technology Coordinator / Systems Administrator West Point Independent Schools - West Point, KY August 2018 to June 2019 • Provide professional level technical assistance to school employee and students as needed.  • Demonstrate understanding of the use and integration of technology tools in instruction.  • Demonstrate positive interpersonal relationships with staff, parents, students and community.  • Resolve hardware/software interface and interoperability problems.  • Manage accounts, network rights, and access to systems and equipment  • Ensure server is operating at its potential and make evaluations for improvement as needed due to changing of times.  • Maintain systems configuration  • Oversee all server needs, wiring, router, proxy, TV’s, CSU/DSU, switches, hubs, sound systems, microphones, copiers, scanners and other technology equipment. Data Entry Randstad - Louisville, KY April 2017 to May 2017 - Accurately enter data into multiple systems  - Open, sort and verify contents of mail  - Ensure accuracy of documents and prepare them for processing  - Identify and correct errors in data  - Work in a high volume, production environment Student IT Helpdesk Eastern Kentucky University - Richmond, VA February 2016 to December 2016 - Maintain friendly customer service with the students and faculty on Eastern Kentucky University’s campus.  - Work three locations on a flexible schedule whilst maintaining control of the computer labs  - Keep work areas clean and organized  - Assist in any computer software-related issues  - Keep accurate logs of any and everything that happens in all locations and make sure they are stored in a very organizational manner SENIOR SALES ASSOCIATE AAFES March 2015 to August 2015 MAY 2016 - AUG 2016  • Some of my key responsibilities for this position:  ? Showcase strong and effective customer service skills  ? Work cash registers for various electronic material-based transactions  ? Manage the Electronics Department within the store which includes, but is not limited to:  * Maintaining daily inventories  * Keeping the workplace clean and freshly stocked with goods  * Note daily the number of "critical" items we held in stock (which was any laptop over $500 or any tablet / iPad)  ? Interpersonal skills were paramount when receiving phone calls and assisting customers throughout the store Education BACHELOR'S DEGREE in Criminal Justice EASTERN KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY December 2016 ASSOCIATE'S DEGREE in Criminal Justice ELIZABETHTOWN COMMUNITY AND TECHNICAL COLLEGE December 2014 Additional Information COMPUTER SOFTWARE  • I've always been fluent in understanding how computers work, and I'm very comfortable with how most of today's software works. That includes Microsoft Office, any Windows Operating System, as well as some of the Linux Operating Systems.  • Along with software, I type at approximately 78 Words Per Minute.  COMMUNICATION  • Working in sales has given me excellent communication skills when relating to customers and various other circumstances.