Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - BOSH Global Services Marcellus, NY Work Experience Systems Administrator BOSH Global Services - Syracuse, NY October 2014 to Present Microsoft Server 2003 and 2008, Microsoft Windows XP, Vista, and 7, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, VMware ESXi 4.1 Microsoft Visio - Creation and upkeep of Visio Diagrams of systems layouts for continuity and inspections  • Perform bandwidth usage monitoring on video, WAN/LAN connections, utilize data to recommend requirements changes based on customer need. Administered NetApp SAN by monitoring performance and capabilities and planning for future growth requirements  • WAN/LAN: Installation, configuration, maintenance and troubleshooting on Cisco (3700, 3800 & 6506 series routers and switches), Marconi ATM switches (ASX-200), Fastlanes, and taclanes Brocade BigIron, ClearCom Intercom System, and ThinkLogical DCS 72 & KVM fiber extenders  • IP subnet and VLAN implementation  • Astria MPEG-2 and Piranha MPEG 4 Video Encoders with multicast configuration and management Information Assurance Officer/ Systems Administrator Eustis (JBLE) - Hampton, VA September 2012 to October 2014 1 Fighter Wing/94 Fighter Squadron/IA Directorate  Hampton, Virginia, Sep 2012-Oct 2014  Systems Administrator for the Special Access Program (SAP), NIPRNet, SIPRNet, JWICS and Deployed networks Responsible for planning, implementation, quality assurance, configuration, installation, integration, maintenance testing and systems security as the assigned Information Assurance Officer (IAO).    • Server administrator- Windows Server 2003, ADUC, DHCP  • Ensured certification and accreditation on several DoD networks including NIPR, SIPR, and JWICS  • Administered NetApp SAN by monitoring performance and capabilities and planning for future growth requirements  • KG175D Encrypion Device - Configured, troubleshot, and trained others for deployments  • Microsoft Visio - Creation and upkeep of Visio Diagrams of systems layouts for continuity and inspections  • Planned and coordinated all required information assurance and Systems Admin efforts for deployment of over 300 personnel and over $250,000 in network equipment to Kadena AFB, Japan; Savannah, GA; AFCENT and Nellis AFB, NV. Systems Administrator Eustis (JBLE) - Hampton, VA February 2011 to September 2012 Hampton, Virginia, Feb 2011-Sep 2012  Day to Day long haul systems support to established networked resources for all of Joint Base Langley-Eustis and several satellite organizations.    • Built standalone Windows network for training and testing VMware, VDI, and other system resources  • Administered NetApp SAN by monitoring performance and capabilities and planning for future growth requirements  • Coordinated the DoD's first integration of iPhone/iPad/Android mobile computing devices with AF NIPR Networks  • Managed shared file services for over 14,000 users across Langley AFB  • Maintained day to day operation of $72Million in NIPR and SIPR network equipment  • Provided full-scope communications support for F22 TDYs and deployments  • Spearheaded consolidation of USSTRATCOM Missile mission network into Langley AFB network backbone  • Performed software upgrades and maintained current operating system platforms and information management applications on both NIPRnet and SIPRnet for all of Langley AFB Education B.S. in Information Systems Security University of Phoenix 2016 A.A.S. in Information Systems Management Community College of the AF - Maxwell AFB, AL 2014 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security + February 2011 to February 2017 VMware VCP5-DCV Present Mar 2015 (projected) EMC Academic Associate February 2014 to Present CompTIA Server + September 2011 to Present Additional Information • Four years' experience in design, testing, maintenance, and training support of Windows server 2003/2008 Environments.  • Two years' experience with VMware ESX, and VDI Systems configuration and administration.  • Over two years' experience with organizing/executing organizational-level Information Assurance (IA) activities to ensure compliance with legal/regulatory requirements while meeting customer Automated Information System (AIS) needs.  • DoD 8570 Compliant Systems Security administrator.  • Solid background in TCP/IP, principles of routing, switching, and LAN/WAN troubleshooting.  • Keen virtualization, networking, Systems installation and troubleshooting skills.  • Experienced with Visio network architecture drawing utilities.  • Excellent organizational, interpersonal, and communications skills.  • Quick Learner and adapts well to any environment.  • Strong initiative to work through issues and follow through on all assigned tasks.