Lead Trojan Electronics Technician Lead Trojan Electronics Technician Lead Trojan Electronics Technician - DynCorp Intl Kapolei, HI Work Experience Lead Trojan Electronics Technician DynCorp Intl - Schofield Barracks, HI April 2018 to Present USA  Responsible for end user training, advanced technical support, and account configuration for users. Support the installation of hardware and software for the upgrade/development of TROJAN DATA Network-1, TROJAN DATA Network-2, and TROJAN DATA Network-3.    Primary duties include: • Install, maintain, troubleshoot and repair various types of electronic and mechanical equipment and related hardware.  • Configure satellite communications equipment based on mission requirements and parameters set forth in support of U.S. DoD Tactical/Deployed customers.  • Manage Distribution and Inventory Control Processes for equipment totaling a monetary value of 1.4 million dollars.  • Generate standard operating procedures and ensure compliance.  • Oversee the dispatching, routing, tracking, and shipment of activities to ensure safe, prompt, and accurate delivery of equipment. Systems Administrator Leidos Inc - Fort Bragg, NC September 2017 to April 2018 USA  Responsible for the planning, design implementation, and capacity management of the telephony environment for Cisco Unified Communications Manager (CUCM) 11.5.1.13900-52 in the JMICS systems.    Primary duties included: • Setup/configure new IP Phone Accounts on the JMICS Network • Provide advanced technical support and configuration for end users in support of the installation of new upgrade/development of CUCM System • Design and maintain Phone Trees to Management requirements • Integrate Cisco Unified Presence with JMICS • Played an instrumental role in implementing the Cisco Unified Presence within the JMICS system by providing end-user training and support Systems Administrator U.S. Navy - Fort Meade, MD March 2016 to September 2017 USA  Served as a systems administrator providing network support to end-users at local and remote sites. Expertly managed technical support operations, diligently troubleshooting issues to identify root causes and prevent reoccurrences.    Primary Duties Included: • Managing system accounts while identifying account types and procedures for creating, activating, modifying, monitoring, disabling, and removing accounts • Maintaining MS Exchange Server - Performing troubleshooting and providing resolutions for server problems • Promoting timely intelligence reporting and analysis through maintaining a stable network and fast reaction to trouble calls • Configure, implement, and manage VMWare Virtual Desktop across multiple platforms • Plan and coordinate the installation, testing and operation of server software, hardware and firmware to include performing scheduled, periodic, and ad-hoc maintenance as required • Train personnel to maintain mission critical 24-hour service desk troubleshooting a multitude of desktop applications, peripheral devices, computer hardware and network issues • Training employees across multiple departments on network operations including log-in procedures, network management software, permissions, printing issues, security and use of software Systems Administrator U.S. Navy - Camp Lejeune, NC October 2015 to March 2016 USA  Supported Marine Special Operations Support Group for Joint Special Operations while responsible for training personnel on the configuration, administration, and maintenance of network, satellite, storage, video teleconference (VTC), Voice over IP (VoIP), desktop and server information systems.    Primary Duties Included: • Set up and managed 24 deployable satellite communications nodes over the course of six months in support of over 50 military personnel.  • Trained over 50 military personnel on all systems while performing network management duties with little to no downtime • Administer, maintain, and troubleshoot Local Area Networks (LAN) and Network Attached Storage (NAS) attached to VMware environments • Develop training manuals for end-users to ensure seamless transition following hardware/software upgrades Education High school or equivalent Skills Troubleshooting, Networking, Maintenance Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E4