Computer Technician Computer Technician Galliano, LA I would describe myself as a dedicated and productive person who is very ambitious and would love to be part of a company who provides opportunities for personal and financial growth. I am a great resource for any company to possess with many skills in information technology. I am also a very fast learner who welcomes new challenges. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Computer Technician Lady of the Sea General Hospital - Galliano, LA September 2017 to Present I am part of the IT department team. We manage all electronic systems and software at our hospital, multiple clinics and pharmacies. We help users through a work order system and also mange servers, computers,robots and POS devices. Customer Engineer (Contract Position) Computech Corporation/NCR - Houma, LA September 2016 to December 2016 Performed field service repair and maintenance on teir 2 devices including servers, point of sale devices and automated teller machines. Systems Administrator (Contract Position) Evangel World Prayer Center - Charlestown, IN February 2010 to August 2011 Managed electronic systems setup and support,trained employes in proper use of equipment. Computer Technician (Contract Position) Addeco USA - Louisville, KY July 2009 to January 2010 Worked for Toshiba and Ernst & Young as a computer technician. I would diagnose, order parts for and repair Toshiba and Dell computers. Education Computer Information Security Ivy Tech Community College - Sellersburg, IN 2011 to 2014 Skills C++, Linux, VMware, Information Technology, Microsoft Office, Active Directory, Windows Server, Proofpoint, Desktop/Laptop/tablet Support & Repair, Computer Repair, Server Support, VOIP Administration, IP Security Camera Support, Athena Health Software Support, Doc Records Support, Jumpstock Software Support, Apple Iphone/Ipod/Mac Support & Repair, Spacelabs Telemetry Software Support, Konica Minolta Printer Support, Help Desk Support, Kali Linux, Clinical IT, Novarad Radiology Software support