HPC Systems Administrator HPC <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> HPC Systems Administrator - RedLine Performance Solutions Marlton, NJ Work Experience HPC Systems Administrator NOAA - Princeton, NJ 2015 to Present Part of a geographically diverse team that manages a High-Performance Computing cluster for NOAA's Research and Development High Performance Computing environment and NOAA's GFDL facility. Evaluates new hardware and software with proven benchmarking, performance tools, and procedures for acceptance. Responsible for designing and implementing  cloud infrastructure across 3 sites consisting of services critical to the program. In charge of the maintenance and  improvement of the high-volume batch environment which processes over 20,000 user jobs per day. Responsible for the majority of hardware related tasks including installation, integration, and proper cable-management. Maintains reliable and up to date documentation procedures on all facets of equipment & services.  o Performed major upgrade of cluster management software using xCAT  o Designed & implemented full virtualization for infrastructure services using Foreman and Puppet.  o Performed migration of batch scheduling software from Moab to Slurm.  o Installed various collaboration software within the program to help promote coordination within a geographically disparate team.  o Performed multiple major Operating System & kernel upgrades for High-Performance Computing cluster  o Promoted to lead administrator for the batch compute system and promoted to site-coordinator. Junior HPC Systems Administrator NOAA - Princeton, NJ 2013 to 2015 Part of a team that manages the High Performance Computing cluster at NOAA's GFDL facility. Responsible for maintaining over 150 servers to ensure maximum reliability and uptime. Helped troubleshoot complex user issues with batch  processing scripts. In charge of maintaining local disaster recovery setup, ensuring proper configuration and schedule with off-site vendors. Acted as hands on for remote administrators in a variety of capacities including installation of new hardware,  troubleshooting, and inventory management.  o Performed major integration of new cluster systems, ensuring stability and compatibility with existing cluster.  o Coordinated with local Facilities & other Administrators to move all systems to replace the Data Center floor.  o Performed massive clean-up initiative to better organize systems as well as well as improving cabling  standards.  o In charge of coordination for all major system outages, planned & unplanned Systems Administrator Exceptional Medical Transportation - West Berlin, NJ 2011 to 2013 Lead administrator in a small ambulatory transport business to manage their Windows-based infrastructure.  Performed full upgrade of systems to modernize the company. Managed several servers that perform many different  functions including Domain Controllers, MSSQL backend servers, and Terminal Services servers. Supported all technology  efforts including user support and communication support for EMTs in the field.  o Performed major OS upgrade to critical production systems.  o Normalized backup & Disaster Recovery procedures to a reliable state.  o Implemented regular patching procedure as well as imaging tools for user workstations.  o Oversaw major revamp of communications for field employees. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Rowan University 2011 Skills Networking, Puppet, Juniper, Storagetek, Rsa, Equallogic, C++, Git, Linux, Java, Brocade Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems: Linux, RHEL/CentOS, Debian, SUSE, MS Windows (XP, 2003, 2008, 2012, ), Apple OS X  Networking: Force10, Juniper  Software: xCAT, Slurm, Git, bash, python, c, c++, java, ruby, Puppet, Foreman, Cobbler, Moab, TORQUE, KVM  Hardware: Dell PowerEdge, Storagetek SL8500, Brocade, Blade Server, EqualLogic, RSA