Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - BP America Seattle, WA Work Experience Systems Engineer BP America - Renton, WA August 2018 to Present • Design, build, maintain, and manage Windows servers, workstations and Red Hat Linux servers over a widely distributed network.  • Design, installation, monitoring, and maintenance of process control and business critical systems, applications, and networks.  • Actively participating in network design review and redesign process.  • Applying new technology where practical, simplifying where possible, and ensuring they are protected from cybersecurity threats while maintaining 100% availability.  • Installation, configuration, and maintenance of Windows OS, network issues  • Apply security patches and software upgrades  • Manage licenses and certificates  • Work, design, test, and implement server solutions in physical and virtual servers using VMware  • Design, build, configure, and maintain network firewalls (WatchGuard), switches, modems, and routers  • Design, build, configure, and maintain wireless networks and equipment  • Analyzed the hardware and software requirements for AD implementation  • Designed Active Directory instruction and implemented the first Domain Controller within the company  • Design and manage DNS and DHCP  • Keep up to date on the latest networking, IT, IT Security technologies and manage cybersecurity  • Create and manage patch management systems (WSUS)  • Planned, installed, and administered EPO and manage anti-virus (AV) servers  • Manage backups of systems (Veeam)  • Administer Group Policy.  • Create and maintain documents, drawings, policies and procedures  • Research innovative, and where possible automated approaches for system administration tasks  • Assist in the creation and maintenance of emergency recovery plans and procedures  • Execution of day-to-day administration activities associated with infrastructure as well as technical research and development to enable continuing innovation.  • Provide on-call support for pipeline end users Systems Administrator Institute for Corporate Productivity (i4cp) - Seattle, WA January 2018 to August 2019 • Installation, configuration, and maintenance of Windows OS, network issues in a production support environment  • Designed and managed Active Directory  • Manage VPN, LAN and EDI (SecuriSync, Secure FTP, etc.) computer platforms.  • Managing WSUS servers and patching process  • Created a standard procedure for testing and releasing the security patches for Servers and Desktops  • Administered Group Policy.  • Determine the rationale and methods for upgrading company's network, equipment and software programs each time updates are released.  • Maintain, reconfigure and upgrade of routers and firewalls  • Create/update and administer disaster plan that will keep the company functional in the event of a crisis.  • Keep up to date on the latest networking, IT, IT Security technologies  • Create budgets and schedules for information technology projects.  • Oversee all phases of project from conception to completion.  • Create project documentation.  • Provide risk assessment.  • Manage multiple cloud-based services including Azure.  • Purchase, configure and replace laptops for end users.  • Maintain on-boarding/off-boarding process, checklists and documents changes as it relates to technology, OS, and hardware.  • Day-to-day technical support to end-users IT Systems Administrator Liberty Language Services - Vienna, VA December 2015 to September 2017 • Configured, maintained, and administered server hardware and software.  • Analyzed the hardware and software requirements for AD implementation  • Designed Active Directory instruction and implemented the first Domain Controller within the company  • Prepared the environment and the devices to join to the Windows Server 2012 R2 domain  • Installation, configuration, and maintenance of Windows OS  • Work, design, test, and implement server solutions in physical and virtual servers using Hyper-V and VMware  • Extended domain structure by adding more domain controllers  • Introduced, Installed and configured Amazon Web Services (AWS) Servers.  • Planned and implemented application deployment across the company  • Monitoring servers' performance and resources  • Managing user accounts, security and distribution groups lifecycle  • Created the standard Win7 and 8 imaging platforms using Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT)  • Managing WSUS servers and patching process  • Created a standard procedure for testing and releasing the security patches for Servers and Desktops  • Administered Group Policy.  • Creating and Managing backup jobs as well as planning for DR  • Assisting the Helpdesk team with resolving the escalated issues  • Planned for Moodle v2.x to Moodle 3.x upgrade. Created battle plan and conducted the first upgrade in test environment, backed up the data (including online courses, users' data, and customized settings.), confirmed compatibility, found the roots of the problems I encountered during the test and finally performed the upgrade in production.  • Managing and administrating ZenDesk and Podio (Ticketing and task management systems).  • Configured, installed, and administering Five9 cloud contact center software.  • Execution of day-to-day administration activities associated with infrastructure as well as technical research and development to enable continuing innovation.  • Research innovative, and where possible automated approaches for system administration tasks.  • Organizing Business administration apps to improve on work flows.  • Support end users on complex technical issues including problems related to applications, client computers and servers.  • Support the IT needs of the organization's employees and internal groups.  • Automated some day to day tasks using PowerShell scripts.  • Active participation in 24/7 on-call rotation    Cloud Street, Baltimore, MD Windows Systems Administrator September 2014 to December 2015 • Installation, configuration, and maintenance of Windows OS, network issues in a production support environment  • Work, design, test, and implement server solutions in physical and virtual servers using Hyper-V and VMware  • Maintaining, monitoring, and administering network based services: File and Print services, Email, Active Directory, DHCP/DNS  • Perform monitoring and maintenance of all servers in the operations team environment  • Installation of all Windows servers including hardware/software upgrades and patching of OS and applications using Windows Update Services (WSUS)  • Prepare written documentation of environment and application configuration.  • Work with Senior Systems Administrator implementing new sever technologies  • Supporting the application development teams  • Performed desktop migration from Windows XP to Windows 7 and Windows 8.1  • Responsible for software deployment for corporate clients  • Maintain, monitor, and troubleshoot windows software deployments  • Planned, installed, and administered Symantec Endpoint Protection (SEP) for almost 600 clients  • Administer company information security testing and protection plans.  • Support end users on complex technical issues including problems related to applications, client computers and servers.  • Support the IT needs of the organization's employees and internal groups.  • Active participation in 24/7 on-call rotation Systems Administrator PG IT Institution June 2008 to August 2012 • Managed several network implementations including network planning, design, testing, documentation  • Administering Windows Based systems  • Working with Physical, Virtual, and cloud base systems  • Performing Active Directory related tasks through PowerShell  • Responsible for hardware and software applications for workstations, servers, and network data communications.  • Collaborated with executive management and department leaders to assess network capacity needs.  • Responsible for server backup  • Make recommendations for mitigating identified risks.  • Maintained user's mail, print servers, and server/user accounts. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Towson University December 2014 Skills Vmware, Virtualization, Security, Active Directory, System Administrator