Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator- Trinitech Consulting Boston, MA Highly analytical System Administrator with a wide range performance skills in systems installation, configuration, upgrading, and maintenance of operating systems and server such as Solaris 10/11 & CENTOS, RHEL HAT 6/7 and bridging servers to a network. Experience in troubleshooting network connectivity issues such as DHCP and DNS, installation of VMware (oracle virtual box/VMware ESXi ) and lastly with excellent written and oral communication skills. Work Experience Systems Administrator Professional Skills at Trinitech Consulting - Beltsville, MD October 2018 to Present • Build multiplatform Servers on VMware, which include Windows Server 2008, UNIX Solaris 10/11, LINUX Centos 6.4, and RHEL 6.4/7.  • Responsible for assigning hostnames, static IP addresses, default gateway addresses and DNS addresses to Windows 2008 Servers and also introduce server to the network.  • Use the "dcpromo" tool to configure DNS, Active Directory as well as to promote standard Windows 2008 servers to domain controllers, such as Windows 7, 8 and 10 NOS imaging and configurations and software deployment.  • Create new user accounts and profile on Windows NOS, UNIX and LINUX systems.  • Troubleshoot and resolve OS, application, malware desktop related issues on various Windows NOS.  • Network Administration - use of TCP/IP troubleshooting tools to troubleshoot and resolve network connectivity and DNS, DHCP related issues within a LAN, Windows NOS clients to join the domain as well as configure file and print sharing on Windows NOS to enable resource sharing.  • Daily use of VPN, RDP, SSH, Telnet, Putty and Winscp.  • Experience in building and configuring VMware host and guest systems on Oracle Virtual Box as well as bridging VMware systems to communicate with other physical LAN systems. Knowledge in SSH and SCP Unix/Linux  • Experienced in Storage Management SAN/NAS/LUN (FreeNas installation on Vmware, configure LUNs on a NAS server, create volume in the NAS server, create LUN from a Volume and attach LUN to a server.) AWS (cloud and Ec2 instance experience)  • Linux package management (installing of package using the yum tool), LVM, RAID, NFS and security management ( system hardening, constant use of system ticketing) and System Monitoring. Teacher May Institute - Randolph, MA August 2014 to October 2018 Education Masters in Public Health Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Allied Health Sciences - Boston, MA May 2020 Bachelor's of Art in Criminal Justice Curry College - Milton, MA May 2014