AWS Platform Engineer - ServiceNow AWS Platform Engineer - ServiceNow AWS Platform Engineer - ServiceNow - National Geospatial Intelligence Agency Fenton, MO Work Experience AWS Platform Engineer - ServiceNow National Geospatial Intelligence Agency April 2019 to Present • Engineered a highly available and scalable infrastructure for self-hosted ServiceNow environment.  • Automated infrastructure deployment and maintenance with self-written Python scripts which reduced administrative burden and potential for errors.  • Designed, tested, and implemented solutions that reduced infrastructure cost and footprint, led to increased availability and scalability, and increased application responsiveness.  • Created a team Wiki site that allowed for more dynamic documentation and collaboration as well as providing a single source of information for new team members leading to a significant decrease in onboarding time.  • Provided design recommendations which followed the AWS Well-Architected Framework, resulting in a design that was much more fault tolerant, scalable, and secure.  • Perform automated backups and provide a documented and tested disaster recovery plan. Systems Administrator/ Systems Engineer Leidos - National Geospatial Intelligence Agency March 2017 to April 2019 • Worked as the SME for network license servers providing guidance for organizations to implement their own network license solutions using best practices.    • Engineered standard configuration for concurrent use license servers greatly reducing the administrative burden of systems administrators.    • Designed and implemented a plan to standardize license server configurations to reduce confusion, reduce onboarding time, and enable creation of consistent documentation    • Engineered and maintained network license servers on both Windows Server and RHEL operating systems.    • Performed root cause analysis on issues related to concurrent use licensing and provided recommendations for how to prevent issues from recurring. Systems Administrator United States Army March 2014 to March 2017 • Implemented and maintained Distributed Common Ground System (DCGS) for Division intelligence section.  • Used Puppet to configure and maintain servers using both Windows Server and RHEL operating systems.  • Assisted with creating disaster recovery plan to ensure ongoing intelligence operations could be maintained.  • Maintained 5 9s of uptime ensuring that 24/7 intelligence analysis could be performed consistently.  • Worked between multiple different teams to ensure systems could communicate effectively.  • Administered both Cisco and Dell switches and routers. Education Bachelor of Science Western Governors University Skills Python, Scripting, Documentation, Infrastructure engineering, AWS, Linux, Aws Ec2 Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) AWS Solutions Architect - Associate Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) Cisco Certified Network Associate - Security Cisco Certified Design Associate(CCDA) AWS SysOps Administrator - Associate CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Security+ CompTIA Project+ CompTIA Server+ Additional Information SKILLS & EXPERIENCEE  • 6 years of industry experience  • Infrastructure engineering for highly scalable and available applications.  • Quickly adapt to new environments and technologies.  • Creating in-depth documentation.  • Python Scripting.  • AWS cloud engineering.