Desktop Support Specialist Desktop Support Specialist Desktop Support Specialist - Jevs Philadelphia, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Desktop Support Specialist JEVS Human Services - Philadelphia, PA April 2019 to Present - Appropriately attempt to resolve immediately and where necessary escalate to the appropriate Service  Team (Service Delivery, Production Support, etc).  -Deploy, troubleshoot, and coordinate repair of hardware such as laptops and mobile devices at the service desk as well as at the customer's desk. Systems Administrator Nuix - Conshohocken, PA December 2017 to April 2019 -Daily administration, management and support of Desktop / Business applications, phone system, Network  HTML 5 and Windows/Linux client and server infrastructure.  CSS 3  -Provide 1st, 2nd and 3rd level support for all IT related issues.  JavaScript -Performing maintenance, testing upgrades, and providing technical support to users.  React -Provide hands-on support for local o ce sta requiring IT Support - desktop/laptop builds and LESS troubleshooting, audio/visual setup and testing, remote hands for global network engineer.  GIT -IT System maintenance tasks - ensure systems are patched for security vulnerabilities, data backups.  -Hardware asset life cycle management - procurement, con guration, stock management and repairs. Desktop Engineer Hybros - Bensalem, PA June 2016 to December 2017 MacOs -Install, upgrade, support and troubleshoot Windows OS, Mac OS, authorized desktop applications,  Linux hardware and peripheral equipment.  -Monitor and execute preventative maintenance and repairs on computer, laptops, printers, and peripherals  Servers  -MS outlook con guration, Outlook backup & restores and troubleshooting.  Monitoring  --TCP/IP Con guration, Internet Maintenance along with basic Networking, Mapping drives, wireless  Patch Management networking, networking in domain environment.  Security -Administrate MS Active Directory accounts and groups including O ce 365.  Access Management -Provide support to remote users.  Problem Solving Support Integration Analyst DaVita - Malvern, PA January 2015 to June 2016 -Expedited telephone support for multiple clinics across the network. (average 35 calls daily)  -Worked directly with Alpha/Beta applications logging bugs and system errors accurately, along with being a subject matter expert for the applications  -Achieved an 88% rst call resolution along with a high customer satisfaction rating  -Utilized ServiceNow call tracking system to log, track and manage incidents and service requests  -Executed password resets, desktop and printer support, network connectivity troubleshooting Education Lambda School 2020 DPT Business School July 2003 to March 2004 Skills Wordpress, Javascript, Front End, HTML 5 (2 years), css 3 (2 years), ReactJS (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), LESS (Less than 1 year), AWS (Less than 1 year), HTML5 Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional March 2004 to Present