Network and Systems Administrator Network and <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Grayson, KY A dedicated, adaptable, and experienced network specialist who balances productivity without sacrificing safety of personal or equipment. Equally capable of working alone, as a member of a team, or a leader of a team, with years of leadership and mentorship experience. My qualifications include:  • U.S. Secret Clearance.  • Adaptable knowledge and experience of command line interfaces.  • Experience with satellite terminals/receivers, servers, routers, switches, wireless gateways, hubs, firewalls, encryption devices, and all accompanying wires/connection methods.  • Over 8 years of Leadership experience.  • Adept at conflict resolution in the work place.  • Experience with Voice over IP phones and Cisco Unified Call Manager.  • Training and mentoring skills and experience.  • Physically fit, strong, flexible and agile.  • Highly optimistic  • Adaptive troubleshooting skills  • Great work ethic  • Highly Dependable Work Experience Network and Systems Administrator United States Maine Corps - Camp Lejeune, NC June 2014 to July 2019 Network Installation:  Working alone, extended services of a classified U.S Secret network from Marine Corps Base Quantico in Virginia to 3 different Marine Corps installations in California. Each on site Installation included a point to point encryption device, 2 routers, 3 layer 3 switches, at least 80 laptop computers (imaged on site), at least 20 Cisco VOIP phones, and a printer. This project was completed in under a month in preparation of a training exercise that included 8 different operational units. I have conducted many other similar exercises and network installations in places such as North Carolina, Japan, The Philippines, and South Korea.  Maintenance and Records:  Adequately maintained records and maintenance of over $900,000 worth of communications equipment, resulting in 0% operational failures due to hardware malfunction in my time in charge of this section and perfect scores on 2 enterprise level inspections of records and equipment functionality.  Help Desk and customer service:  Took charge and implemented a smooth running Help Desk for 2 different organizations by putting in place new processes and procedures such as an asset tracker, a trouble ticket tracker, and a Microsoft organizational mail box that received all customer emails and could be accessed by all members of each helpdesk. Provided satisfactory customer service and help desk support for over 800 marines at 2nd Battlion 8th Marines, and for over 200 high ranking individuals at the MAGTF Staff Training program.    Adaptability:  Successfully held numerous positions over my past 5 years of military service. These include Cyber network operator, maintenance and records manager, helpdesk manager, and section supervisor. These positions were all held over both stationary long term occupations and dynamic environments moving from area to area, even country to country. As well as held positions outside of my job field such as security guard for the Marine Corps Museum, Marine mentor in the marine corps mentoring program, and watch manger creating shifts for guard posts and patrols. Education None Skills Active Directory, Networking, Customer Service, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7 Certifications/Licenses Security+ September 2017 to February 2020