Job Seeker Randallstown, MD Work Experience VINDS Inc June 2015 to Present • Installation automation in Red Hat Linux and Solaris.  • Configuration and maintenance of applications on Citrix, Solaris and Red hat 6 -7 servers.  • Provisioning, engineering, maintaining and supporting of Amazon Web Service (AWS) Cloud Administration.  • Experience with security Information and Event Management (SIEM)  • Introduced new servers to the network. Maintaining and troubleshooting network connectivity.  • Experience with Solaris Zones. Configuring, Migration and resource management of Zones.  • Systems Security Administration and User administration using Role Based Access Control and Sudo.  • Security administration using Firewall, IP Table, SE Linux and ACL  • Exposed to Puppet and Chef Configuration management tools.  • Disk configuration & Managing File Systems in RedHat and Solaris.  • Maintaining Cloud Administration using Open Stack, virtualization and zones.  • Install, configure, and administer systems with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP)  • Server monitoring using Nagios, Solar Wind  • Perform system backups and recovery  • Experience with Network Operation Center ( NOC )  • Recommended Sun OS kernel/OBP patch upgrade for production/development servers.  • Checking alert logs, trace files and file System maintenance.  • VMware installation and configuration, virtualization  • Creating and Managing root and sparse zones  • Providing 24x7 Sun hardware and software support for workstations, entry- and middle- range servers, storage products and the Solaris Operating Environment.  • Install and set up Postgre for window  • Connect Postgre data base for window  • Creating data base and table with PostgreSQL  • User management, Creating and managing user account, groups and access levels.  • Creating Mount point for DBA team and supporting various database implementations.  • Controlling the System Logging services, and examining system Log Files of all system events.  • Implementing RAID levels using SVM on Solaris and LVM on Linux.  • Development and operation of CRM (Customer Relationship Management) using Python scripting  • Experience with remedy ticketing system.  • Experience in disabling and enabling root password Systems Support Administrator EP Management Service, LLC January 2012 to May 2015 • Installation and configuration and maintenance of applications on Solaris and Redhat.  • UNIX and Windows system security administration  • Troubleshot and maintained Unix and Windows systems; resolved software and hardware related issues.  • Experienced with Internet technologies including TCP/IP and HTTP, NFS, DNS and BIND  • Managed File system, Users accounts  • Installation automation in RedHat Linus using kickstart procedure.  • OS ticketing and helpdesk assistance for customer services  • Used Active Directory for user's accounts and group management.  • Performed System wide backups using Veritas network backup. V  • System and network management using HP OpenView and RACADM.  • Providing Tier II and III support for Data networks including Layer2 and 3 support: VLANs, ACLs,    All professional references are available on demand Education B.S. in Computer Science / Information Systems Technology Monroe College A.A. in Computer Information Systems Monroe College Skills Aix, Ksh, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Sparc, Sun, Sunfire, Unix, Network attached storage, Nas, Storage area network, Tcp/ip, Citrix, Lan/wan, Netra, Tcp, Vmware, Vpn, Netbackup Additional Information Skill set:    Platforms: Fedora, Ubuntu, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6-7, Solaris 9-11, X86/X64 platforms, Windows 2003, 2008, 2011 Server, Win XP, IBM AIX 6.1/ 7.1 TL3  Hardware: Citrix servers, Sun SPARC (Sun Netra Servers, Sunfire V240, V440, V490, V880, V890,  Sun SPARC Enterprise T2000, M3000), IBM (e-Server), HP (9000, ProLiant)  Languages: UNIX Shells (sh, csh, ksh, bash), Perl, HTML, SQL, VP Script, Ruby, Python  Storage Tech: Veritas, Symantec NetBackup, TCP/IP, LAN/WAN, VPN, VMware, MySql Database, Oracle Database, Storage Area Network (SAN), Network Attached Storage (NAS).