Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer Work Experience Systems Engineer Charter Communications - CO August 2018 to April 2019 • Provides 2nd - 3rd level solution resolution for applications and services offered internally and to customers.  • Leads active troubleshooting from RCA to resolution.  • Provides guidance to junior colleagues regarding processes and best practices.  • Engages and supports appropriate teams to resolve incidents with large impact. Systems Engineer at Charter Communications Apex Systems - CO - Denver, CO March 2017 to July 2018 • Analyzing Video Operations' monitoring solution using Icinga2 open source software and PostgreSQL database on CentOS 6.5 servers.  • Migrated video infrastructure servers (Linux CentOS) from private IP address network to public network in National Data Center. Linux Administrator HCL America - CO September 2015 to July 2016 • Installed and supported Linux OS (Red Hat 6) on virtual servers  • Managed storage LUNs addition/removal  • Provided access management through Powerbroker  • Managed local VIPs  • Created and modified BASH shell scripts for automation/monitoring tasks HCL America - CO May 2014 to July 2016 Systems Administrator HCL America - CO May 2014 to September 2015 • Managed resources in day-to-day access management tasks. (Active Directory, Windows and Linux servers security access)  • Provided escalated support, analysis and resolution of complex access security tasks.  • Lead SOX audit project, streamlining secure access for compliance and automation with BASH/Perl scripts  • Administration of TPAM Unix Sr. Systems Administrator Access Security - Phoenix, AZ April 2010 to May 2014 • Privileged access senior team member: researched, validated, granted secure access on Windows and Red Hat Linux systems (local and active directory); gathered critical information for quarterly Unix server access audits; trained new resources; created shell and Perl scripts to facilitate a manually-intensive process for account termination  • Rolled out new Quest TPAM access security tools from QA to Production (Total Privileged Access Management)    Achievements:  • As a Sr. Systems Admin, I expanded scope of TPAM solution to add an additional 3000 servers and HA (high availability) status  • Reduced week+ long process of Linux server auditing to a few days with shell scripts  • Completed Red Hat Certified Systems Administrator exam, knowledge of Linux servers functionality, authentication, and access security Education Professional Diploma in Programmer-Analyst Delta College - Montréal, QC 1993 Professional Diploma in Accounting and Finance College Edouard - Longueuil, QC 1990 Skills LINUX, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CHEF, CISCO, DNS Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS  • Linux Administration (RedHat/CentOS)  • Windows 2016 (Active Directory, DNS, DHCP)  • Splunk  • VMWare hosts management, VMPlayer  • Cisco Switches & Routers  • Small project management (Automation with Chef)  • Working knowledge of network fundamentals  • Skilled day-to-day systems management and access ( systems monitoring), circumventing interruptions, upgrades/fixes, and documenting processes; access fulfillment and quality monitoring.