IT Engineer II IT Engineer II IT Engineer II - Walgreens Hainesville, IL I succeed in a fast-paced work environment where change is constant and often the norm. Fully experienced Azure AD Engineer, Domain Architect, Systems Engineer and Administrator with broad experience designing, implementing, troubleshooting, and administering various operating systems, servers and network hardware, and software packages. Work Experience IT Engineer II Walgreens - Deerfield, IL October 2017 to Present • Work as AD engineering team lead with 10 members, included near shore and off-shore in the department of information security in total is made up of roughly 180 security and identity access management professionals to support globally across the US, UK, India, and Mexico.  • Work as a domain architect and take ownership for all domain forests aspects.  • Report directly to global security identity manager and work closely with IT security and operation team.  • Lead for LEAP's project by working with Microsoft architect to design and architect all requirements to migrate identity infrastructure to Microsoft cloud Azure AD.  • Architect, design, and implement Azure AD Connects with hybrid and multi-forest environment.  • Provide third level support related to Azure AD/O365 technologies and domain forest infrastructure.  • Manage and support all Azure AD/O365 identity requirement, included DNS, ADFS, AD Connect, PING, MFA  • Manage Azure AD Prod/Test tenant as a GA role and implement all conditional access policies required for O365 apps access.  • Setup apps onboarding, licenses, service principal creation, roles assignments, API permission, and other related to Azure AD integration.  • Define new processes for Azure AD related projects, tasks, and requests, included Azure AD governance, standard, and best practices.  • Lead all projects and tasks related to Active Directory infrastructure, AD migration, domain consolidation, RAP, audit and compliance, and security vulnerability reports.  • Manage, troubleshoot, and support over 35 domain forests and over 35,000 user accounts for entire corporate of Walgreens.  • Manage and support over 40 domain controllers located in data center 1, data center 2, and other 100 distribution center sites.  • Design, build, and implement ManageEngine, included ADManager Plus, Recovery Manager Plus, Application Manager, and ADAudit Plus to support all requirements for Active Directory administration.  • Consolidate Quests products and reduce IT costs by saving for security identity team's budgets.  • Design, build, and upgrade domain controllers to Windows Server 2016. Decommission DCs running on 2003/R2, 2008 R2, and other none required applications servers.  • Design and architect all project related to Active Directory, integration, migration, consolidation, and upgrade.  • Develop protocol to support establish standard and improve engineering, operation, and monitor of advanced or complex features. Implement FIM and MFA on DCs in a scope of PCI requirement.  • Provide solution to remediate and improve AD infrastructure, included AD cleanup, DCs stability, AD backup and restore, Apps servers migration, AD upgrade 2016, DCs HA and decommission.  • Overall AD infrastructure cleanup. Improve security policies by implementing best practices for securing AD infrastructure, security checklist, security baseline for DCs 2016, meet PCI compliance, and other AD security policies.  • Architect, design, and implement afresh test domain. Implement new AD and OIM password sync.  • Migrate legacy domains to corporate domain forest and take to identity engineering team ownership.  • Align AD password filter with other IAM technologies such as Enterprise LDAP, Authenticator, OIM, and PING.  • Bring new technologies to support AD globally between Walgreens, Boots, Alliance.  • Provide AD roadmap for identity engineering leadership.  • Mentors less experience members and 2L identity operation support team. Sr. Systems Administrator Fresenius Kabi USA - Lake Zurich, IL January 2015 to October 2017 • Managed and troubleshot Symantec NetBackup 8.0 architecture in Data Center and other 10 remote site offices.  • Managed and maintained Scom 2012 for IT infrastructure. Administered the Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC's servers to ensure compliance with both departmental and corporate policies and procedures.  • Managed, troubleshot, and monitored server infrastructure running Windows Server 2008/2012 R2 included 200+ physical servers and 500+ VM servers (vSphere 6) in Data Center and other remote sites.  • Assisted Sr. Systems engineer to design and implement AD architecture and Global AD migration project. Troubleshot advanced issue in Active Directory, Active Role, and provided support for multi-site Domain Forest.  • Administered 20 AD domains and provided related services supporting 100+K users. Maintain, manage DNS, GPOs throughout AD enterprise.  • Worked with Sr. Engineer to create enterprise-level design for AD and DFS servers for global migration.  • Installed, configured, and maintained AD infrastructure for remote sites (North America, Canada, France, Puerto Rico, and Dominican Republic). Performed AD migration for all remote sites using Quest Migration tool.  • Implemented IT project related to other department's request and contacted vendor for application support.  • Worked with QA and Validation team to support all quality system documents requirement, included IQ, OQ protocols. Contacted vender Dell, HP, Microsoft and others for technical support.  • Worked as a level 3 technical support in server team to provide resolution to user using ticket system in resolving high priority issue.  • Monitored and tested system performance and provided statistical reports, SLA for Data Center manager.  • Created, maintained, and updated documentation for all infrastructure related procedures, application, and systems.  • Reported directly to Data Center manager for any infrastructure project and system related issue. Systems Engineer MMD Services Inc - Chicago, IL July 2014 to January 2015 • Worked as a MMD contractor for onsite employment with Fresenius Kabi, located at 3 Corporate Dr, Lake Zurich, IL 60047.  • Assisted Senior System Engineer for any project in designing and tested all new server systems and applications.  • Performed tasks as system administration includes Netbackup job status report, storage availability, data center hardware status, server performance management, and system status verification.  • Monitored help desk ticket and aid in resolving high priority availability issue.  • Built and managed VM templates for deployment of IT infrastructure's project and other department. Systems Engineer Information Technology Partners - Chicago, IL March 2014 to July 2014 • Worked as a deployment team lead with six Desktop Engineers for any deployment project at the client remote site.  • Implemented and administered Windows Server 2008 R2/2012 R2 and Exchange Server 2013 for multi-tenant.  • Managed and maintained Active Directory, GPO, Exchange Server 2013, and LanDesk Management Suite 9.5 for entire corporation.  • Performed tasks as daily operations engineer for preventative maintenance, system administration, performance management and tuning, installing updates and patches and troubleshooting shared computing systems in partner user environments based on the schedule.  • Provided support to L1systems engineers and helpdesks for any technical tickets and issues escalation.  • Configured and maintained network switches, routers, and firewalls for partner remote site's infrastructure.  • Traveled to partner site offices to perform core network infrastructure deployment, upgrade, and troubleshooting.  • Developed templates with core based OS, Drivers, application, using LanDesk Management Suite 9.5 for deployment on laptops, desktops, and thin clients.  • Developed technical solutions, troubleshooters, knowledge bases, installation and configuration instructions for support and service group.  • Performed post configuration in users and computer settings and customizations on laptops for partners.  • Built, and modified automated scripts for administrative usage in MS Exchange, Lync, and SharePoint.  • Implemented VMware ESXi 5.5 servers for Datacenter and partner site offices. Created, deployed, and migrated VM servers and templates within ESX hosts. Management of virtual servers and templates using vSphere Center. Systems Administrator International Bank of Chicago - Chicago, IL May 2013 to February 2014 • Provided supporting and managing for system and network infrastructure, IT management, Helpdesk, IT project for bank headquarter and other seven branch locations.  • Performed and maintained data backup, recovery systems and processes along with Symantec Backup and Recovery software. Managed assets inventory include hardware, software, and licenses.  • Maintained Microsoft server based network security, network rights, policies, enforcement of naming standards, login scripts and network software upgrades. Created and managed group policies, users, computers, and group accounts.  • Managed, monitored, and deployed patches, updates, and securities using WSUS and GFI LanGuard. Monitored and remediated baseline security reports for IT manager and for the States IT auditor and examiner.  • Managed and maintained AD, DNS, DHCP, File servers, and Exchange servers for production environment.  • Worked with vendors and IT security companies to perform external penetration test for the IT infrastructure.  • Created and managed documents of network diagrams, knowledge bases, instructions, IT request forms, IT policies, and other IT department documentations.  • Developed and maintained backup strategies/documentation for all servers and capable network devices and performed offsite disaster recovery testing for all key systems.  • Created and/or maintained vendor relationships with several companies including Dell, IBM, and CDW. Systems Engineer Sath Technologies Inc - Schaumburg, IL August 2011 to May 2013 • Designed logical and physical network architecture for development and production environment, the volume of data in each location, concurrent users and other parameters.  • Designed User/site hierarchy for achieving the best possible scalable and secure solution that can be integrated with Active Directory infrastructure.  • Designed, developed, and managed Windows Server 2008 R2, domain forest, child domains, and AD and DNS infrastructure for development and production environment.  • Created MSI application packages using AdminStudio Suite as per the user requirement. Developed and repackaged of application packages into MSI to deploy within SCCM infrastructure.  • Migrated and repackaged server-specific application. Tested and troubleshot the MSI packages in VMware lab and deployed to all workstations in Production using SCCM 2012.  • Installed, configured, and managed MS Exchange server 2010, SCCM 2012, SQL 2008 R2, SharePoint 2010, and MS Lync 2010.  • Built, modified, and maintained automated scripts for provisioning new clients onboard, including MS Exchange, Lync, and SharePoint.  • Configured, and managed VMware ESXi 5. Created, managed, and deployed virtual servers and templates.  • Created documentations of work instruction, procedure, technical solution, client provisioning workflow, helpdesk call and web processes, DNS architecture, servers and network architecture diagram, installation and configuration instructions for Exchange, SCCM, SQL, and SharePoint. Systems Admin Volunteer Career Resource Center - Lake Forest, IL October 2009 to February 2012 • Provided hardware and software support of network including all aspects of network infrastructure; servers, routers, switches, firewalls, cabling, PCs, printers, databases, and applications.  • Reviewed/recommended prospective hardware/software products based on organization requirements and direction. Managed several desktop OS and hardware upgrade/replacement projects using various imaging, scripting, and automation techniques to perform efficient desktop rollouts.  • Installed OS, and applications, and provided troubleshooting on desktop and network issues to resolution. Built, and maintained computer systems to improve speed, reliability, and efficiency of operation. Lab Instructor Robert Half Technology - Gurnee, IL August 2010 to August 2011 • Educated students in MS Windows XP, Vista, 7 and 2003 Server at Computer Systems Institute. Trained and mentored students on CompTIA A+, Network+, network infrastructure management and troubleshooting.  • Provided application and OS deployment training for students by creating and testing application packages with AdminStudio and deployed using MDT in the Lab environment. Troubleshot hardware problems for lab, maintained and upgraded workstations, servers and operating system lab rooms. Prepared hardware lab benches. Rebuilt workstation PC's for students. Education Masters of Science in Information Technology in Network Management Colorado Technical University - Colorado Springs, CO November 2013 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Royal University of Phnom Penh - Phnom Penh, KH September 2002 Skills Cisco, Exchange, Firewalls, Iis, Scom, Landesk, Asp, Security, Sharepoint, Html, Javascript, Scripting, Vbscript, Visual basic, Xml, Netbackup, Symantec, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2008, Sql server Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ratthasouk Additional Information Professional Skills and Qualifications    Operating Systems: Windows, vSphere/ESX/ESXi, Linux (openSUSE, SLES, CentOS), Cisco IOS  Management Software:  Azure AD, NetBackup Enterprise 8.0, SCOM 2012, vSphere 6.5, Quest Active Role, ManageEngine, Microsoft Exchange Server 2007/2010, Microsoft SCCM 2007/2012, Microsoft Lync 2010 for Multi-tenants, Microsoft SharePoint 2010, Microsoft WSUS, LanDesk Management Suite 9.5, Microsoft IIS, Microsoft Endpoint Protection, MBSA, Cisco AMP, Symantec Endpoint Protection, Kaspersky Security Anti-virus, GFI LanGuard, ADAuditPlus, OpenDNS, Sophos, Bit9    Databases: MS SQL Server 2008/2012, MySQL  Hardware: Servers, Firewalls/Routers/Switches, Desktops/Laptops/Thin Clients, Printers/Scanners/Projectors  Scripting and Programming: Windows PowerShell, Exchange Management Shell, PowerCLI, HTML, ASP, XML, Visual Basic, VBScript, JavaScript