Job Seeker Norcross, GA Work Experience Publix Information Systems Technology Services. (ISTS) March 2014 to Present • Monitor multiple security systems for a Fortune 500 company.  • Investigate arising incidents caused by malicious activities, and identified false positives.  • Documented security events daily to create a baseline of activity for client network.  • Refined and improved existing documentation system, resulting in reduced labor costs totaling $15,000 annually Via increased workplace efficiency.  • Investigated alerts created by IDS/ IPS including malicious file uploads, compromised servers, SQL injections and port scanning. OutSystems IT Systems Administrator April 2010 to March 2012 • Monitored and managed email spam filters, firewalls, anti-virus systems, and vulnerability scanners.  • Deployed and observed IDS sensors and their resulting alerts.  • Performed in-depth forensics on workstation hard drives.  • Investigated various security incidents, mostly the result of malware infections. Education Bachelor's Gwinnett Tech 2014 to 2017 Skills IDS (5 years), SECURITY (5 years), IPS (4 years), MALWARE (1 year), BACKTRACK (Less than 1 year), Active Directory, Comptia, Linux, Tech Support, Service Desk Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • SECURITY: McAfee SIEM/ EPO/ NSM, fire eye CMS/ ETP, Secure works, IDS/ IPS, Sumo Logic cloud based log management, SSL configuration and management, Juniper NetScreen/ Palo Alto Networks firewall.    • REVERSE ENGINEERING: Ollydbg, WinBdg, GBD, IDA Pro, PEiD, and Malware Sandbox.    • NETWORKING: WireShark/ TCP View packet analysis, DNS servers, mail servers.    • OPERATING SYSTEMS: Windows XP, Vista, 7,8; Windows server 2003, 2008, and 2012;  Linux including CentOs, Ubuntu, Arch, Debian, BackTrack and Kali.    • Demonstrated ability to verify accuracy of incoming shipment and rectifying errors    SPECIAL SKILLS  • Computer hardware intelligence and understanding of regular hardware issues, protocols and applications.  • Able to work continuously for long hours including while performing active work, bending and climbing.  • Outstanding customer service skills with the highest number of positive reviews.  • Polished communication and presentation skills.  • Capable of interfacing with peers as well as upper level management.  • Exceptional organization and time management skills.  • Excellent manual dexterity  • Certified forklift license and Demonstrated knowledge of operating forklift  • Excellent communication skills  • Perfected organizational and multitasking skills  • Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines