Principal Systems Administrator Principal <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Principal Systems Administrator - The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey Great Neck, NY Work Experience Principal Systems Administrator The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey - Jersey City, NJ January 2017 to Present Network Infrastructure & Operation's Administrator/Contract Manager:  • Manage the $163 million budget for the unit.  • Serve as the liaison for the assistant director and manage his day-to-day events and various items that deal with the NI&O unit.  • Contract Manager - for the largest contractor account in the technology department and deal with all aspects of the account - invoices, timesheets, equipment orders for the entire agency, main contact dealing with scheduling of staff, staffing issues, cyber security training, maintain employee matrix from contactor with their employee listings and all relevant information needed, ensure contract performance by monitoring for compliance, and much more.  • Invoice oversight, act as liaison to troubleshoot issues and ensure the technology department receives services as expected.  • ERF's - (Expenditure Review Form) Create, track and oversee all ERF's which are presented to the CTO for his approval and signoff.  • Oversee the destruction of old/out of warrantee networking/computer equipment, make sure proper steps were taken (i.e. Port Authority configurations were wiped clean), schedule and oversee the pick-up of equipment from all Port Authority facilities.  • Facilitate the collection and communication of NI&O project statuses for the entire agency to the Assistant Director of the NI&O unit and help strategize the workload with him.  • Manage and regulate the access and storage of all network diagrams for the agency.    Executive Assistant/Office Manager:  • Oversee agency and department communications, work with units on composing, approving and final distribution of announcements.  • Communicate professionally and constructively to effectively resolve issues in order to have department run seamlessly.  • Provide support on department projects as requested.  • Assist team members with day to day activities when needed/providing backup.  • Maintain communications process documentation, distribution lists, asset library and message archives.  • Participate in the planning and execution of department meetings and employee engagement events including assistance with meeting agenda and presentations, securing offsite meeting venue and arranging team activity including room bookings, AV needs, catering, etc.  • Assist in the management of the Chief Technology Officer's calendar, including scheduling meetings and conference calls and arranging travel.  • Route CTO's telephone calls, take messages, respond to questions.  • Communicate with a broad range of Port Authority professionals on behalf of the CTO.  • Process expense reports on behalf of the CTO.  • Create and maintain weekly/monthly/quarterly department reports that document the Network Infrastructure & Operation's activities for the CTO.  • Help in the management of daily office functions.  • Build relationships and promote services with internal and external departments. Communicate effectively and directly with internal and external departments and employees; promote services and provide solutions.  • Participate in and seek functional and cross training opportunities for the department as approved by my supervisor.  • Perform various other related duties as requested/required to facilitate the productivity of the department.  • Identify department gaps and process improvement opportunities and propose changes to the supervisor.  • Provide support for all aspects of event management.    Voice Help Desk Assistant Manager:  • Maintain process flow & tracking sheet, inventory control of IP phones and headsets, verifying charge codes for payment & follow up as needed. Project Coordinator Pomeroy for Port Authority of NY and NJ - Jersey City, NJ November 2012 to December 2016 • Oversaw and managed tickets associated with the migration of all Port Authority mailboxes from creation, assignment, and resolution. Was able to bring the amount of 800+ tickets under control and to a manageable level.  • Worked closely with business management teams to determine business process and productivity needs and an appropriate technology strategy to support business goals.  • Created business solutions using IT resources in response to business requirements.  • Continually managed project expectations with team members and other stakeholders.  • Worked with each department's IT coordinator to develop a communication plan to ensure appropriate migration-related communications for that department/business unit.  • Created and coordinated the groups to be migrated with the IT coordinator for each department and the migration team.  • Delivered progress reports, proposals, requirements documentation, and presentations.  • Proactively managed changes in the project scope, identified potential crises, and devised contingency plans.  • Demonstrated interpersonal, analytical, and problem solving skills.  • Managed remote or onsite post-migration support with technicians when users encountered issues the morning after migrations for each user.  • Delegated tasks and responsibilities to appropriate personnel.  • Identified and resolved issues and conflicts within the project and project team.  • Provided each department's IT coordinator information, support, and guidance as they completed pre-and post-migration tasks.  • Ensured that 100% of mailboxes that were migrated were functional post-migration, including being able to send and receive emails and perform all standard calendaring functions in Office 365.  • Ensured that 100% of mailboxes that were migrated and accessed with mobile devices were functional post-migration on those mobile devices, including being able to send and receive emails.  • Performed second-level supporting and troubleshooting for client's post-migration issues.    Project Coordinator - Windows 7 Migration  • Acted as main account liaison for PA project manager on all activities both technical and business related.  • Migrated 6000+ computers agency wide for the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey, including desktops, laptops, and workstations.  • Upgraded workstations to the Windows 7 64bit (32bit by exception) operating system.  • Provided project management to service engagements.  • Developed the full-scale project plan and associated communications documents.  • Communicated project expectations to team members and stakeholders in a timely and clear fashion.  • Estimated the resources and participants needed to achieve project goals.  • Demonstrated the ability to work independently, take initiative, establish plans, set priorities, multi-task, and manage time.  • Facilitated all regularly scheduled meetings to track project deliverables.  • Created and maintained all project documentation.  • Identification of resource requirements and scheduling of project tasks.  • Tracking of project status and budget. Provided progress reporting to PA project manager.  • Escalated Windows 7 issues and coordinated passing off to tier 2 or 3 level support.  • Developed deployment strategies and processes suitable for supporting the planned workstation rollout on Windows 7.  • Identified users' applications (both installed and web based), determined how to copy users' data and profile from computer for migration.  • Interviewed IT coordinators to identify special considerations and other settings, collaborated with teammates to identify process improvements, responded quickly when issues arose and assisted other teammates as needed.  • Established, created, and maintained a comprehensive inventory spreadsheet for assets upgraded.  • Proven program management and leadership experience in delivering large Windows 7 Upgrades / Refresh projects.  • Demonstrated strategies and techniques that can be utilized to streamline work streams and processes as part of the Windows 7 Refresh Project.  • Demonstrated experience managing multi-million dollar simultaneous projects, per scope and within budget, in complex decision-making environment with multiple end user groups and vendors.  • Demonstrated strong communication skills at all organizational levels from executive to front-line staff. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Business Administration Long Island University - Brookville, NY January 1999 Skills Scheduling, Outlook