Unix/Linux Systems Administrator Unix/Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Unix/Linux Systems Administrator - General Dynamics Information Technology Edwardsville, IL To work in an environment wherein my skills and experience in handling technical issues will contribute towards to the organization. Work Experience Unix/Linux Systems Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology - Scott AFB, IL 2017 to Present • Maintains smooth operation of multi-user computer systems (physical and virtual).  • Junior Commvault Tape Backup Administrator.  • Sets up administrator and service accounts.  • Maintains system documentation, tunes system performance, installs system-wide software, and allocates mass storage space.  • Respond to customer service trouble tickets.  • Interacts with the end-user.  • Evaluates vendor products.  • Develops and monitors policies and standards for allocation related to the use of computing resources.  • Makes recommendations to purchase hardware and software, coordinates installation, and provides backup recovery. Solaris 10 Systems Administrator II Agile Defense, Inc - Scott AFB, IL 2013 to 2017 • Responsible for the administration of Solaris 10 servers.  • Building base servers and end user workstations.  • Perform system backups and restorations.    • Monitor and optimize system performance.  • Respond to customer service trouble tickets and network outages.  • Document, monitor, administer and report on system security posture in accordance with DoD and local guidance and policies.  • Create, maintain, and manage system administrator and user accounts.  • Optimize system operation and resource use, and performs system capacity analysis and planning.  • Monitor VMWare virtual machines & ESXi servers (CPU, Memory, Disk and Network Utilization).  • Perform virtual machine snapshots, create templates from virtual machines, and deploy VMs from templates and allocate virtual machine resources. Solaris 10 Systems Administrator ExecuTech Strategic Consulting, LLC - Scott AFB, IL 2009 to 2013 • Provisioned, administered and maintained Sun Microsystems M5000 web servers.  • Assisted with installation of new hardware at the Communication Data Center at Scott Air Force Base and the St. Louis DISA Defense Enterprise Computing Center (DECC) locations.  • Assisted Oracle field engineers in troubleshooting hardware issues.  • Worked trouble tickets submitted in Remedy.  • Created and maintained documentation, ensuring that it is both accurate and current.  • Managed setup and maintenance of group and user accounts (Solaris & Windows Server 2008).  • Oversaw and applied appropriate operating system patches and upgrades in accordance with Oracle service bulletins to maintain system integrity.  • Interacted with customers to answer questions regarding webpage access issues.  • Trained junior system administrators when necessary. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Information Systems Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE 2008 Skills Linux, Sparc, Sun, Unix, Unix/linux, Storagetek, Dhcp, Ldap, Systems administration, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Vpn, Sftp, Dns, Nagios, Oracle, X86, R2, Visio, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, Solaris Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-5 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS/COMPETENCIES    Operating Systems:  Microsoft Windows 10; Windows Server 2012 R2, and UNIX/Linux.    Systems Administration Management Tools and Protocols:  Sun Common Array Manager (CAM), Simpana/Commvault CommCell, VMWare vSphere, Nagios® Core(TM), Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visio, VI Editor, LDAP/AD, RDP, VPN, DHCP, DNS, TCP/IP, SSH, SFTP.    Computer Hardware Installations and Support:  Workstations and laptops: Sun Microsystems SunBlade 1500 and 2500 workstations (x86, SPARC).    Servers and arrays: Oracle (Formerly Sun Microsystems) Midrange and Enterprise servers (SPARC Enterprise Servers: M4000, M5000, and M9000), Sun StorageTEK 6140 arrays, Quantum DXi 6700/6800 Series VTL System, Quantum Scalar i500 Tape Backup Library.