Linux/Unix Systems Engineer Linux/Unix <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Linux/Unix Systems Engineer - Arrow Electronics, Inc Highly competent Linux/Unix Systems Engineer with 5+ years of experience and with Emphasis in Systems Administration, Data Center migration, Server Deployment and production support with automation and scripting.    • Experienced in Linux/Unix System Administration, Server Builds and Application support of Red Hat Linux, Sun Solaris, Apache, WebLogic, Web Sphere, and VMware.  • Worked extensively in planning, designing, installing and configuration and implementing on Sun Solaris 9, 10, 11; RHEL 4, 5, 6, 7.  • Experience with managing and integrating with virtualization solutions (VMware, LDOMs, Zones)  • Experience in Creation and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in OEL and Red Hat Enterprise Linux.  • Experience in installing, configuring and troubleshooting Apache 2.2.x web server on Red hat Linux and Sun Java System Web Server 6.x, 7.  • Developed automated processes that run daily to check disk usage and perform cleanup of file systems on UNIX environments using shell scripting and CRON.  • Experience in Installing Firmware Upgrades, kernel patches, systems configuration, performance tuning on Unix/Linux systems.  • Almost 2 years of Experience in Elastic Search, Logstash, Kibana ELK experience (design, building and maintaining)  • Design and implement data modeling for Elastic Search (ELK) indexing and query to handle documents.  • Experienced with SAN, NAS and storage administration, with EMC Clarion & DMX storage. Configured Sun Multi-Packs, Storage Arrays, T3's and SAN backup for disaster recovery.  • Worked with Veritas Cluster, Sun cluster, Oracle RAC.  • Installing, configuring, and maintaining Samba Web Servers, WebLogic and WebSphere Application Servers, and Oracle, SQL and Sybase, Oracle RAC database technologies.  • Moving RHAS machines from physical to virtual including VMware ESX 3.5 and vSphere 4.0.  • Installing and upgrading VMware tools on client machines.  • Strong ability to troubleshoot any issues generated while building, deploying.  • Experience in working on source control tools like GIT.  • Experienced with SAN, NAS and storage administration, with EMC Clarion & DMX storage.  • Worked with Veritas Cluster, Oracle RAC.  • Installing, configuring, and maintaining Samba Web Servers, WebLogic and WebSphere Application Servers, and Oracle, SQL and Sybase, Oracle RAC database technologies.  • Experience with various UNIX systems including building of servers, migration, production support, data center support, packaging, automation, troubleshooting and security hardening of servers.  • Moving RHES machines from physical to virtual including VMware ESX 3.5 and vSphere 4.0.  • Installing and upgrading VMware tools on client machines.  • Managed Patches, Upgrades and Licensed Products for System software on all flavors of UNIX and Linux Servers.  • Supported Disk Volume Management - creating volume and Logical Volume Manager.  • 24X7 on-call production support and troubleshooting problems related to RHEL and SUSE Linux. Work Experience Linux/Unix Systems Engineer Arrow Electronics, Inc - Denver, CO June 2017 to Present • Worked on server builds in multiple environments such as DEV, QA2, UAT, VPT (PS) and MGL.  • Creating and managing Virtual Machines and Templates on VMware.  • Installation of RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux) 6.X, 7.X administrator and server maintenance.  • Using and configuring Red Hat Satellite server, yum repositories and Troubleshooting activities.  • Oversee Linux systems, using Red Hat satellite for configuration management and enforcement, as well as to ensure systems are updated and current.  • Configured and maintained ZFS file systems in Solaris 10.  • Responsible for installing, managing, deploying and administrating Oracle databases,  Including RAC database.  • Responsible for maintaining multiple Oracle database environments for all Production, Development and Test systems.  • Installed and configured Zones (virtual servers) for Solaris 11/10 Server.  • Performing Linux Kick Start installation, RAID & LVM Implementation.  • Configuring inner and outer view of DNS server to resolve internal & external queries  • Planning and setup of Disaster Recovery Servers.  • Upgrading Solaris 10 to Solaris 11 using live upgrade.  • Installed, configured, and managed new LDAP environments for upgrade needs.  • Worked on BMC remedy ticketing tool, involved in solving certain tickets.  • Worked with Apps team and involved in solving server related issues.  • Red Had Satellite Server for patching and kick start-based server deployment  • Diagnosing, troubleshooting, and resolving performance issues along with other application, network and system.  • Initiate compliance and vulnerability scan requests to identify and report weaknesses and potential Security breaches.  • Participated in disaster recovery planning, implementation and testing.  • Pro-actively ensure stability, response time and life cycle over the network  • Provide reports on activity, quality and performance of data network.  • Apply OS patches and upgrades on a regular basis. Maintain operational documentation.  • Reviewing system and application logs for troubleshooting. Managed Disks and File systems using LVM on Linux, kernel patching.  • Setting up network environments using TCP/IP Sockets, NFS, DNS, SNMP agents, DHCP and Proxy.  • Experienced in configuring and administrating NFS, NIS and FTP with very good understanding of networking protocols such as TCP/IP Sockets, DNS.  • Managing User Accounts and Groups, managing Disks and File Systems. Linux Systems Administrator Windstream Communications - Twinsburg, OH May 2016 to June 2017 • Installation of RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux) 6.X, 7.X administrator and server maintenance  • Used Red Hat Satellite server for pushing required packages and patching Red hat Linux servers.  • Built Solaris servers using jumpstart installation and LDOMs using the images.  • Worked with backend multi-TB storage systems such as EMC, NetApps, and Hitachi using Volume Managers such as LVM, ZFS/ZPOOL, and VERITAS Volume Manager.  • Working on the Unix platforms like Linux Red hat 5, 6 & 7 applying the Security patches and doing all the change management.  • Build Lower and PROD Environment, Install Tomcat & JBoss Servers across test & production environments.  • Currently working on server build activities which involves building Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 and 7 servers in both Physical and Virtual platforms and procedure documentation.  • Installing, configuring, tuning, and supporting Linux servers.  • Involved extensively in virtualizing and managing them using VMware and VCenter vSphere.  • Experienced in recovering OS from VM snapshots and working on Maintenance mode through VM console.  • Perform Backup and restore using Veritas NetBackup's. Restored files for end-users when necessary.  • Experienced in tasks like managing User Accounts and Groups, managing Disks and File Systems.  • Worked on system administration tools, Networking (LAN and WAN, ) UNIX, Load balancers, DNS, TCP/IP and Storage technologies.  • Performed Cloning of virtual machines in VMware.  • Configured and maintained NFS, NIS and DNS for sharing the file systems and the name resolutions.  • Experience in providing day-to-day user administration like adding/deleting users and managing user's queries and maintained Server.  • Configured volume groups and logical volumes, extended logical volumes for file system growth using Logical Volume Manager (LVM) commands.  • Performing online addition of LUNS to the servers for provisioning disk space and resizing file systems.  • Participated in quarterly patching schedules.  • Participated in disaster recovery planning.  • Managing disk storage using VERITAS Volume Manager 4.1/5.0 and Solaris Volume Manager.  • Installing HBA drivers, firmware and Power Path software in Production, Development and QA servers.  • Administration of active applications which monitor the application server including installation of plug-ins for Apache Webserver.  • Patching of RHEL and Solaris servers and Performed root cause analysis of technical issues.  • Administering of High Availability VERITAS Cluster Servers for redundancy purpose.  • Managing data backup and recovery operations using VERITAS Net backup by working with Backup team.  • Involved in data center migration, SAN switch and SAN storage migration.  • Monitoring system resources, disk usage, scheduling backups and restore.  • Configuring and troubleshooting NFS, FTP and SSH for users. Linux/Unix Administrator Diginet Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to February 2015 • Configured UNIX infrastructure, and supported RHEL (Linux) 5, 6, servers.  • UNIX server maintenance and tasks including configuring Java for applications, providing disk space (LVM and VERITAS Volume Manager), application specific user id (s), sudo access, administrative record keeping tasks.  • Proficient in patching Solaris and RHEL servers to recommended security levels. Maintaining and upgrading operating systems like RHEL.  • Implemented DNS, NFS, NIS, Auto mount networking services.  • Implemented DNS, NFS, NIS, Auto mount networking services.  • Configured volume groups and logical volumes, extended logical volumes for file system growth needs using Logical Volume Manager (LVM) commands. Maintained availability, increased capacity & performance of production machines by upgrading their hardware (disks, CPU, memory, IO board, power cooling unit, motherboard etc.) & firmware.  • Managed file permissions & ownership for important directories & files.  • Troubleshooting of all kind of OS related and hardware related issues on the Linux servers  • Performed process automation, scheduling of processes using CRON jobs.  • Implemented DNS, NFS, NIS, Auto mount networking services.  • Experienced in Creating user accounts, user administration, local and global groups on ESX and Red Hat Linux platform.  • Reviewing systems and application logs for troubleshooting. Managed disks and file systems using LVM on Linux, kernel patching. Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNTU Master of Science in Computer Science SILICON VALLEY UNIVERSITY Skills DNS (5 years), LINUX (5 years), NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (5 years), NETWORKING (5 years), NFS (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.x, 6.x, 7.x, VMware ESX 3, 4, 5, Centos 6.5, 7, Solaris 10, 11, Ubuntu 11, 12.  Scripting Languages Shell, Python.  Hardware Dell PowerEdge, Intel X64 based servers, HP Blade Servers, Backup Devices  Networking NIS, NFS, DNS, SSH, CISCO Switches/Routers/Access Points and Firewalls.  Server Monitoring Tools Splunk, ELK, Nagios  Volume Management Red Hat LVM, Veritas Volume Manager, ZFS  Virtualization VMware, KVM, Docker, Hyper-V, vSphere Client.  Protocols TCP/IP, IPv4, IPv6, FTP, SFTP, SCP, DHCP, LDAP  Version control GIT  Continuous Build Integration Jenkins  Web/Application Servers Web Sphere, Tomcat, Web logic