Linux System Administrator Linux <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Villa Rica, GA Work Experience Linux System Administrator Intercontinental Exchange - Atlanta, GA June 2018 to January 2019 At Intercontinental Exchange I was part of the Systems Engineering 'Shared' teams which means I was involved in assisting with the building and maintenance of projects for teams across the board. This included, but was not limited to server builds outs (both physical and virtual), custom software installation and configuration, puppet module maintenance and user administration.     Technologies and Software Utilized   Redhat Enterprise Linux, VMWare ESx, Puppet, Foreman, Git and more Systems Administrator Merk Design Solutions, LLC - Atlanta, GA May 2016 to June 2018 At Merk Design Solutions, LLC it is my responsibility to own all aspects of their technical needs including but not limited to payment processing, website infrastructure, social media and desktop support.    Technologies and Software Utilized  Ubuntu Linux, Wordpress, Ansible, PHP, Python, MySQL, Varnish, macOS, Windows 7-10 and more Systems Engineer Hewlett Packard Enterprise - Austin, TX November 2014 to May 2016 In my tenure at Hewlett Packard Enterprise my role evolved from being a team member to eventual team leader of Public Cloud Monitoring. We were responsible for the infrastructure and development of all tools utilized to monitor HPE's various OpenStack deployments and environments. My role eventually lead to me being part of a DevOps team responsible for building and operating synthetic transaction based monitoring for OpenStack components.    Accomplishments included:  ? Performing the first Icinga cluster rebuild and restructure since Public Cloud's inception  ? Migrated all monitoring environments to Icinga2 to implement a single view into the HP Public Cloud  ? Took over as Team Lead  ? Lead project "Visine" to "get the red out" of Public Cloud monitoring (30% fewer false alarms in Public Cloud)    Technologies and Software Utilized  Ubuntu Linux, Icinga/Nagios, Chef, Ruby, Python, Ansible, MySQL, Jenkins, NGINX and more    Open Systems Administrator  CORT (Contract Position) - July 2014 to November 2104    At CORT I was responsible for managing a vast infrastructure which utilized Red Hat Enterprise Linux, VMware ESXi 5, Cisco UCS, Microsoft Active Directory, and many other enterprise level suites. During my contract with CORT I successfully launched and improved a variety of products and processes including, but not limited to, a Conflunce based intranet, rebuilt the backup infrastructure, and ensuring the company is compliant with all internal and external compliance requirements. I was with Hewlett Packard Enterprise until their Public Cloud division ceased operation in May 2016    Technologies and Software Utilized  Red Hat Enterprise Linux, some Debian, VMware ESXi and Vcenter, Cisco UCS, Puppet, Rundeck, MySQL, MSSQL, IIS and more. Open Systems Administrator CORT (Contract Position) - Austin, TX July 2014 to November 2014 At CORT I was responsible for managing a vast infrastructure which utilized Red Hat Enterprise Linux, VMware ESXi 5, Cisco UCS, Microsoft Active Directory, and many other enterprise level suites. During my contract with CORT I successfully launched and improved a variety of products and processes including, but not limited to, a Conflunce based intranet, rebuilt the backup infrastructure, and ensuring the company is compliant with all internal and external compliance requirements.    Technologies and Software Utilized   Red Hat Enterprise Linux, some Debian, VMware ESXi and Vcenter, Cisco UCS, Puppet, Rundeck, MySQL, MSSQL, IIS and more. Infrastructure Architect StarView Solutions - Austin, TX October 2013 to July 2014 At StarView Solutions it was my duty to design and implement all necessary components of a highly-available, heavily trafficked VoIP network. My work has included designing and implementing a fully geographically redundant XenServer based infrastructure, overseeing an office relocation and build-out and implementing automation and monitoring procedures to ensure SLAs are met and exceeded. I was with StarView Solutions until their purchase in July 2014.    Technologies and Software Utilized  Linux (Predominately Ubuntu, some Debian and Redhat as needed.) OpenSIPs, Windows Server 2K8, iptables, OpenVPN, MySQL, Apache, Wordpress, Puppet and more. Linux Systems Engineer Interactive Life Forms, LLC - Austin, TX November 2011 to October 2013 As a Linux Systems Engineer for Interactive Life Forms, it was my duty to assist in the design and implement all major technical projects while ensuring 100% uptime for current production systems.  Accomplishments included:  ? Automated desktop deployments and management  ? Automated server deployments and management  ? Lead project to unify system logins into ActiveDirectory  ? Assisted with project to redesign backup and recovery procedures    Technologies and Software Utilized  Linux (CentOS, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Ubuntu and Debian), Windows (Server 2003, Server 2008 R2, XP and 7), Mac OS X, Apache, MySQL, PHP, Ruby, SVN, Kickstart, PXE, iptables, Nagios, Puppet, Salt, SSH and VMWare ESX/i Linux Systems Administrator Rackspace US, Inc - Austin, TX March 2011 to November 2011 As a Linux Systems Administrator for RackSpace Hosting I provided technical support for thousands of customers with linux servers in various configurations. Duties included providing support via ticketing system and phones, writing documentation, maintaining maintenance schedule, and assisting other departments with linux based configurations.    Technologies and Software Utilized  Linux (CentOS, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Ubuntu and Debian), Plesk, Postfix, MySQL, Apache, i/DRAC, i/LightsOut, VMWare ESXi, rsync, memcache, PHP, and qmail Linux Systems Administrator HostGator.com - Austin, TX October 2010 to March 2011 As a Linux Systems Administrator for HostGator.com I provided technical support to customers relating to their web hosting services ranging from issues arising from content management systems on shared accounts to issues with dedicated servers. Duties included providing support via ticketing system, as well as phone, writing documentation, and assisting with monitoring the health of server fleet.    Technologies and Software Utilized  Linux (CentOS, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Ubuntu and Debian), Plesk, CPanel, QMail, Apache, Virtuozzo (OpenVZ), PHP and MySQL Skills documentation (3 years), Network Administration (4 years), Scripting (5 years), System Administration (7 years), Linux (10+ years), PHP (7 years), Python (5 years), MySQL (7 years), Apache (7 years), NGINX (7 years), Soldering (2 years), Active Directory (2 years), Jenkins (3 years), Nagios (4 years), Zabbix (2 years), JIRA (4 years), Confluence (4 years) Additional Information Key Skills  Systems & Network Administration ? Desktop Support ? Documentation ? Scripting & Automation