Computer Systems Administrator Computer <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Computer Systems Administrator Jacksonville, FL IT Technician and Cyber Security Analyst with an active Top-Secret/SCI with CI-Poly Security Clearance and 6+ years of proven experience interacting and collaborating with multiple levels of management and diverse teams. Skilled in computer network exploitation, threat defensive cyberspace operations, and secure communications. Possess a comprehensive background in security systems, cyber-threat mitigation policies, risk management, and data analysis. Implements broad-based knowledge and practical application of strategic planning, process improvement, and project management to achieve organizational goals. Articulate communicator with keen bottom-line focus and a proven ability in enhancing operations through delivery of value-added programs, policies, systems, and procedures. Bilingual in Spanish in both oral and written communication.    • Project Planning  • IT Leadership  • Information Security    • Web Development  • Training & Mentoring  • Systems Administration    • Policy Implementation  • Network Defense  • Performance Improvement    IT SKILLS & CORE COMPETENCIES    Cyber Security VMWare Windows 7 Windows Server 2008 R2 Microsoft Office Suite  McAfee ePO Internet Applications Active Directory HBSS LINUX/UNIX Servers Work Experience Computer Systems Administrator U.S. Navy - San Diego, CA April 2017 to June 2019 • Maintained classified and unclassified local area networks including four Rugged Servers and 18 Virtual Machine Servers.  • Discovered weaknesses and fortified computer and network equipment by creating new rules using Microsoft Forefront Threat Management Gateway bringing down network vulnerabilities and decreasing cyber incidents.  • Supervised the inventory of 149 unclassified and 44 classified computer systems using the Regional Inventory Tracking Application and developed a local inventory document providing 100% accountability.  • Performed daily network vulnerability scans and applied all equipment patches through Windows Server Update Services to mitigate and maintain Department of Defense Cybersecurity policies.  • Monitored and maintained user accounts on an Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS) server while installing all required patches and updates.  • Responsible for the installation and maintenance of Host Based Security System (HBSS/Endpoint Security) components on assets to minimize rouge systems detected by McAfee ePO server.  • Demonstrated expertise in establishing and maintaining user accounts, profiles, file sharing, access privileges, and maintaining password requirements in accordance with DoD, DON instructions and policies utilizing Active Directory for 385+ users.  • Improved and maintained a Web based and a local Microsoft Excel trouble ticket document creating a troubleshooting guide to aid new Network and Domain administrators reducing the speed of service of trouble tickets.  • Provided Systems Authorization Access Request (SAAR-N) training for users utilizing all computer systems and network applications throughout the enterprise. Operations Supervisor U.S. Navy - Wahiaw?, HI March 2014 to April 2017 • Oversaw the installation and training for 76 coworkers on 12 Windows Server 2008 R2 virtual machines for the Command and Control Office Information Exchange system.  • Performed administration activities including setting user accounts, roles, access, and privileges for 4,223 customer accounts using the primary U.S. Navy messaging systems.  • Assisted site administrators in the installation, testing and maintenance of HBSS components all enclaves for the C2OIX system.  • Responsible for installing, upgrading and configuring 2 Linux/Unix Servers. Served as the primary system administrator for the NOVA Information Exchange Terminal.  • Sustained 99% uptime of critical services by monitoring alerts, performing routine server audits, and implemented system redundancy.  • Created and maintained documentation as it related to installation, configuration, and processes for the five Top Secret Naval Messaging Systems valued at $500M+ in equipment and software.  • Implemented new operating procedures to report major Information System events and interruptions of service to senior officials using the Enterprise Network Management System.  • Maintained a shared database for the Command and Control Office Information Exchange System; presented a more efficient method to analyze and prevent a significant disruption in synchronization. Skills Active Directory, Linux, Linux Administrator, Vmware, Redhat, System Administrator Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jorgepenabarbosa Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ October 2013 to October 2019 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vesaqbv0dahmogsl Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sw3oa6lagxe9gud Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/d6kwc-qqql8ypkr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.