Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - Bunker I.T Milton, NH Work Experience Systems Engineer Bunker I.T November 2018 to Present • Responsible for maintaining VMware infrastructure.  • Responsible for upgrading and keeping VMware in compliance.  • Setup and configured Buffalo infrastructure and operations VM's.  • Setup and configure 10GB and 40GB Mellanox switches.  • Configured and setup SonicWALL firewalls in Manchester Datacenter. Systems Administrator Virtualization Liberty Mutual Insurance April 2018 to November 2018 • Responsible for creating and managing Power BI reports for VM's  • Responsible for Decommissioning of old Linux VMs  • Responsible for decommissioning of old thin clients and setup and of new devices  • Responsible to updating all templates to newest VDA and SCCM and updating VRA. Exchange Systems Administrator Liberty Mutual Insurance April 2017 to April 2018 • Responsible for support of Lync Server and the Exchange network  • Completed Exchange and Lync server Tickets as they came in.  • Responsible for upgrade of Exchange and Lync Servers  • Office 365 implementation and Support Systems Administrator BackBay Networks August 2016 to April 2017 • Responsible for onsite support and management of School Networks and infrastructure.  • Supervise and handle support tickets as needed.  • Operate Veeam Backup products and applications as well as manage Sonicwall and Fortigate.  • Conduct VCenter and VMware setups.  • Perform Migrations from Hyper-V to VMware.  • Manage Exchange and Lync servers for schools and clients.  • Conduct migration from onsite exchange to office 365.  • Responsible for maintaining Exchange 2016 and Exchange 2013.  • Management and support of all AD infrastructure for clients. Systems Engineer Axis Computer Networks January 2016 to August 2016 • Responsible for the onsite support and service of multiple customers. Support included Microsoft Server and Data Networking Infrastructure support.  • Managed all assigned remote tickets.  • Performed hands on experience with multiple applications, technologies and hardware including: Microsoft Server, Windows 10, VMware, Citrix, Fort iGATE, Cisco ASA Sonicwall, Datto Backup Products and also Intronis. Systems Administrator Daystar Computer Services January 2014 to January 2016 • Responsible for remote and onsite service and support of data networking and Microsoft Server in a multiple customer environment.  • Performed fast paced phone support which includes resolving LAN and WAN issues. Focused on LAN network problem solving.  • Experienced administering and managing Microsoft Server, Windows 7 and 8, VMware ESXI and VCenter, Fortigate products and also some Cisco products.  • Administered Office 365 implementation and support.  • Executed installation and support of multiple models of Fortigate Security Appliance.  • Performed installation and support of Fortigate and Ruckus Wireless Products.  • Migrated and supported Microsoft Server 2012 and Microsoft Exchange. Also, migrated and supported Active Directory. Support Technician Nerd-1-1 IT Consultants - Portsmouth, NH September 2013 to January 2014 • Responsible for remote and onsite service & support of voice and data networking in a multi customer environment.  • Performed fast-paced help desk support that included troubleshooting and resolving IP LAN & WAN, VoIP & other network issues.  • Utilized Microsoft, VMware, Watch Guard & several other popular technology manufacturers.  • Built companies first Open Source VoIP phone System which resulted in lower telecom cost & greater flexibility.  • Implemented remote access VPN that allowed workers flexibility to work remotely.  • Administered Microsoft Exchange & Active Directory implementation and support.  • Executed installation & support of Firewalls & Routers. Desktop Support / Network Support (Consultant) Seacoast Laboratory Data Systems March 2013 to June 2013 Responsible for internal support of network and desktop clients.  ? Requirements included entry-level network administration supporting a switched and routed windows and Linux network.  ? Majority of support included but not limited to troubleshooting, diagnosis and ultimately resolution of customer issues with several popular desktop applications.  ? Performed infrastructure support and maintenance of VoIP Systems and Terminal Server. Senior Support Technician BayRing Communications August 2011 to January 2013 Responsible for all aspects of customer support which include fielding incoming customer calls and troubleshooting multiple applications.  ? Experience with VoIP, Hosted Exchange, Linux and Microsoft Server 2003 & 2008, Cisco Routers and Firewalls, T1, DSL, GPON and VMWare.  ? Provided systems administration support, troubleshooting, monitoring, upgrading, backup and maintenance of all systems hardware related infrastructure for customers.  • Built the Companies Hosted Exchange Server which became a new product offering for Customers. Liberty Mutual Insurance February 2011 to August 2011 • Completed IT Help Desk Training which involved learning and troubleshooting a wide range of applications.  • Responsible for fielding customer phone calls to identify and ultimately resolve technical software and network issues. Education High school or equivalent