IT Consultant IT Consultant Charleston, SC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Consultant Cantey Tech Consulting - North Charleston, SC August 2016 to Present • Administers physical and virtual servers running Domain Controllers, File Servers, Application Servers, Remote Desktop Services, etc.  • Monitors physical and virtual server health and performance utilizing industry standard monitoring tools.  • Performs backups of virtual machines.  • Installs required software on end user workstations.  • Troubleshoots and resolves server and end user issues both remote and on site.  • Travels to client sites to install/setup new computers, network equipment, servers, etc. Systems Administrator StraCon Services Group, LLC - North Charleston, SC November 2015 to August 2016 • Administers physical and virtual servers running the PTC Windchill PDMLINK application.  • Monitors physical and virtual server health and performance utilizing industry standard monitoring tools.  • Performs backups of virtual machines.  • Installs required software on end user workstations.  • Troubleshoots and resolves server and end user issues. Information Systems Administrator StaffTechs - Knoxville, TN September 2010 to November 2015 • Contract position working for the Dept. of Homeland Security's Chemical Security Division. Environment consists of 75-80 servers with the majority running MS Server 2008.  • Developed new system and application implementation plans, custom scripts and testing procedures to ensure operational reliability.  • Assisted with an after-hours upgrade of PBX hardware and software to include the troubleshooting and resolving of PBX hardware and related application issues.  • Implemented and virtualized the RSA SecurID program. A two-factor authentication solution adding additional security to the network and critical servers. This saved the company over $7K in hardware costs. Virtualized over half a dozen servers realizing a cost savings of over $20K.  • Implemented Microsoft System Center 2012 R2.  • Administers company infrastructure (both physical and virtual), servers, networking and PBX equipment for a complex, multi-site network.  • Troubleshoots and leads problem-solving efforts, often involving outside vendors and other support personnel.  • Performed after-hours patching of Windows and Linux systems and software.  • Trained technical staff in the use of developed or acquired software and hardware, demonstrating leadership in solving complex problems.  • Provides end-user support, server and network administration for a high availability call center.  • Utilized Quest Help Desk Authority to document issues and the associated resolutions.    Other Experience United States Navy Enlisted 1992 - 2001 Honorable Discharge Education High school or equivalent Skills Active Directory, Help Desk, System Admin, Linux, System Administrator, Vmware Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-5 Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qi-2iq29lljv1gj Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/i1kgwuq7hvri-fht Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ud0vnznxzddh1rtu Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.