Network and Systems Administrator Lead Network and <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead Network and Systems Administrator Lead Work Experience Network and Systems Administrator Lead U.S. Navy - Jacksonville, FL September 2018 to July 2019 • Lead the recovery of ISNS (iSCSI SAN system on hypervisor) shipboard networks and servers to bring the LAN up from scratch in order to be operational following a 16-month administratively down period.  • Provided training to junior personnel including reviewing and writing network policies, instructions, and SOPs in order to certify the ships networks.  • Operated and performed system monitoring and circuit restoration of various HF, UHF, SHF, and EHF communication suites.  • Performed over 150 maintenance checks and 25 spots checks with zero discrepancies.  • Maintained logs, files, and publications as it relates to communication and network operations.  • Managed 99% uptime on all systems to include repairs, ordering parts, new installations to support various time sensitive missions.  • Lead the coordination efforts with Mid-Atlantic Regional Maintenance Center to install 25 pieces of cryptographic gear, seven HF Radios, four UHF/VHF line of sight radios, two Satellite communication systems, and the commercial broadband satellite program. Network and Systems Administrator Supervisor U.S. Navy - Key West, FL September 2015 to September 2018 • Supervised a team of System and Network Administrators running a 24/7 Joint Operations Center 365 days a year in support of counter narcotic operations resulting in the arrest of 1085 traffickers and seizure of $7.2 billion in narcotics.  • Resolved over 100 network fault isolations across 3 networks, 50 DISA circuits, and 14 tactical satellite networks.  • Revamped JOC troubleshooting binder to include updating and rewriting network and systems SOPs (standard operating procedures) resulting in a 20% reduction in isolation and repair times.  • Provided Quarterly training in operational security, digital media management, acceptable use policies.  • Trained personnel on network issues and system issues across DOD networks and over 50 different programs resulting in 70% increase in work center expertise. Network and Systems Administrator U.S. Navy - Dededo, GU September 2012 to September 2015 • Meticulously solved hundreds of network and system trouble tickets resulting in 100% mission accomplishment overseas for 31 commands with over 4000 end users.  • Managed a Remedy database of 4,400 network and computer assets throughout the island of Guam resulting in 100% accountability from production to destruction.  • Upgraded to Windows 10 on an entire secure network used for base communications with minimal downtime.  • Documented all new users and network segments to the DOD network. Education Bachelor of Science in Cyber Security Saint Leo University - Jacksonville, FL August 2017 to Present Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, NAS, SOLARWINDS, TCP/IP, DHCP, TCP, VMWARE, HYPER-V, BATCH FILES, PYTHON, VBSCRIPT, BACKUPS, DISASTER RECOVERY, FTP, SATCOM, OPERATIONS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Technologies: Hyper-V, VMware, Active Directory, WSUS, SATCOM, SAN/NAS, Cisco, Crystal, Group Policy, Backups/Disaster recovery, Continuity of operations, FTP, DNS, DHCP, PVST+, TCP/IP, Python, PowerShell, VBScript, BATCH Files  • Tools: Ping, Tracert, ipconfig/ifconfig, Putty, nslookup, route, pathping, Solarwinds.