System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Hawthorn Woods, IL 15+ years of experience as an IT professional. Extensive familiarity administering and maintaining everything from 100+ domain controller global infrastructures to small-business LANs. Comprehensive experience with planning, configuring, monitoring and troubleshooting both hardware, virtualized, and cloud environments.    Exceptional verbal and written communication skills. Ability and willingness to adapt to any environment and work with minimal supervision. Enthusiastic and energetic attitude with regard to tackling challenges head-on and turning them into learning experiences. Client-focused approach no matter the position or problem being solved. Work Experience System Administrator Paylocity - Schaumburg, IL May 2018 to September 2018 • Maintained a constant hypervigilance for potential information security flaws and exploitable attack vectors, per the sensitive nature of the payroll business.  • Created new and modified existing amounts of automation courtesy of Powershell, scheduled tasks, Zendesk triggers, and other custom scripting.  • Administered Atlassian Jira and Confluence instances for the organization, with 30+ separate Confluence instances for individual teams and departments.  • Contributed extensively to intra- and inter-departmental documentation for hundreds of interconnected systems of all sorts, shapes, and sizes. System Administrator/IT Engineer ACH Foods - Oak Brook, IL September 2017 to December 2017 • Worked hand-in-hand with technical and executive resources to meet project deadlines related to a global datacenter migration of all corporate resources.  • Cataloged the aforementioned resources and readied them for the migration including physical/virtual servers, configurations of on-premise AD & Azure infrastructure, pre-existing VLANs, and multiple appliances for network filtering, routing, and QoS.  • Ascertained inconsistencies in existing traffic patterns via Splunk in order to harden servers/hosts and make them compatible/compliant with the new datacenter's standards. System Administrator/IT Engineer Prescient Solutions - Sycamore, IL April 2017 to August 2017 • Assumed ownership of multiple existing infrastructure responsibilities for maintenance, updates, security, and performance. Spearheaded projects for new client needs as they were discovered and followed them from inception to completion.  • Worked with our other administrator to ensure 24/7 smooth functioning of all production VMs via tweaks in configuration as necessary for our VMWare hosts, NetApp storage, and Cisco networking/traffic filtering.  • Monitored and maintained the Active Directory/Group Policy infrastructure in a multi-domain, multi-forest environment. Suggested and implemented changes that resulted in better efficiency and security as the opportunities were discovered.  • Created a proof of concept for moving non-essential member servers into Azure and off older hardware in order to reduce expenditures.  • Created and modified existing documentation for the client site's individual pieces of infrastructure. Took the lead on the projects assigned to me in terms of creating training/installation documentation as well. Senior System Engineer United Airlines - Mount Prospect, IL August 2016 to March 2017 • Supported end-line technicians and other technical department staff through an imaging technology transition between HPCA/SCCM 2007 to SCCM 2012/NOMAD.  • Coordinated resources to facilitate the successful replacement/re-imaging of hardware for 40+ worldwide sites. This project was finally run to completion after this, its fourth iteration.  • Correct inconsistencies on the back-end through the SCCM console and Active Directory Sites & Services to aid in software distribution to hundreds of remote sites.  • Traversed numerous deep dive troubleshooting paths for myriad proprietary airline software and hardware related to ticket and bag tag printing. Office 365 Ambassador Microsoft October 2015 to June 2016 Remote  • Handled issues throughout the entire range of Office 365 and Microsoft Online products, including Exchange Online and Azure Active Directory, both in online-only and hybrid installations.  • Utilized the Parature ticketing system to keep detailed case notes and contact information, as well as updating end users very frequently per strict SLAs.  • Worked out problems in Exchange and Office migration projects leveraging hybrid setups as well as IMAP and staged migration techniques to offset legacy Exchange limitations.  • Walked business owners through DNS changes as necessary to forward mail, migrate mailboxes, and verify domain ownership, and troubleshot related DNS issues, often related to MX and SPF records.  • Utilized PowerShell to securely connect onsite resources to online O365 tenants and gather information for in-depth problem resolution. System Administrator AptarGroup - Crystal Lake, IL June 2014 to November 2014 • Served as the sole North American member of a global team dedicated to the health of ~65 virtualized domain controllers and over 100 member servers, hosting everything from DirSync, to production SQL databases, to forest-wide DNS and Exchange servers.  • Spearheaded a last-minute operation with a VAR to migrate ~4800 users into Azure AD for use in Office 365 in order to secure $160,000 of free services.  • Worked alongside SAP resources to integrate Office add-ins including but not limited to data visualization, business processes, and middleware compatibility.  • Headed up the AD/domain controller aspects of a weekend-long project virtualizing 50+ production SAP hosts with high executive visibility.  • Remotely assisted with changing over our full contingent of DCs and checking their health during a forklift move from one datacenter to another. Domain Administrator AbbVie Pharmaceuticals - Chicago, IL August 2013 to April 2014 • Monitored and managed 100+ domain controllers globally for issues with AD replication, DNS propagation, and DHCP scopes.  • Troubleshot and solved a widespread issue with Kerberos token bloat that was affecting users from multiple domains and organizations. Co-created a simple web-based tool for direct support technicians to use in order to fix the issue.  • Interfaced directly with development teams and project managers to issue guidance in the use of our multi-forest LDAP authentication.  • Kept watch over MIIS/Forefront Identity Manager servers to ensure maximum uptime of global, high visibility and mission critical web-based applications. Was entrusted with 24/7 manipulation of all resources and re-creating entire VMs utilizing Avamar backups in critical situations. Network Administrator Insight Beverages - Lake Zurich, IL July 2011 to November 2012 • Managed 25+ virtual servers running the company's entire IT software infrastructure. Decommissioned antiquated servers and re-allocated limited host resources to prioritize mission critical SQL servers and ESX hosts.  • Managed Exchange 2010/Exchange online server maintenance and upkeep, alongside policing user mailbox and Online Archive size limitations.  • Reorganized the Active Directory infrastructure for more efficient management, as well as more streamlined and accurate application of Group Policy.  • Optimized Insight's backup and disaster recovery solution utilizing a robotic tape library through Backup Exec, and sent tapes to Iron Mountain per their DR plan.  • Collaborated with other staff to maximize performance for mission-critical ERP and proprietary data warehousing applications. Security Help Desk Team Lead United States Department of Veterans Affairs - Hines, IL October 2009 to July 2010 • Utilized remote connections, Solarwinds, Cisco ACS, and in-house proprietary software for delving into significant-impact VPN, Microsoft Server 2003/2008, and network issues.  • Troubleshot connectivity and configuration issues with the VA's Rescue VPN client for upper management and C-level employees across an extremely varied install base.    Previous IT experience through October of 2003 upon request. Education AS in Finance University of Phoenix October 2011 to November 2016 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Nas, Openview, Solarwinds, Tcp/ip, Ldap, Tcp, Telnet, Vmware, Forefront identity manager, Kerberos, Netapp, Adfs, Sql server, Sql, Hp openview, Ghost, Veritas Certifications/Licenses MCSA Present A+ Certified Present Network+ Present Additional Information Technical Skills  • Software    Microsoft  Over a decade of Active Directory & Group Policy experience, Windows Server through 2016, Office including 2016 and Office 365, PowerShell (all versions), Azure and assorted other Azure tools, LDAP, Kerberos, AD Federation Services (ADFS), DirSync/MIIS and Forefront Identity Manager, SQL Server (all versions), Exchange Server (all versions), ActiveSync, Lync, SCCM, WSUS.    Other  TCP/IP, Cisco ASDM, VLANs, VMWare vCenter/vSphere/ESX/ESXi (all versions), EMC Unisphere, HP Openview/iLO, Symantec/Veritas BackupExec, Solarwinds, LANSweeper, Ghost/GhostCast Server, Telnet, PuTTY.    • Hardware  Dell, HP, and IBM servers, EMC and NetApp hardware, Dell NAS backup vaults, assorted robotic tape libraries, Cisco routers/switches/access points and ASA devices, Fluke and other network testing/tracing/diagnosis tools.