Linux/Datacenter Systems Engineer Linux/Datacenter <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Linux/Datacenter Systems Engineer - Comcast Corporation HQ Philadelphia, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux/Datacenter Systems Engineer Comcast Corporation HQ - Philadelphia, PA 2014 to Present • Coordinate with Offshore Team and Datacenter Engineers to rack, stack, build and configure servers  • Coordinate with Project Managers and Datacenter Engineers to decommission and/or relocate hardware from various datacenters  • Build and support OpenStack and VMware environments  • Launch and monitor virtual servers using OpenStack Cloud Environment web UI and VMware vSphere client.  • Provide system administration and technical support to Oracle DBA, Splunk and Openstack Teams  • Rack and stack HP, Dell, Oracle, SevOne servers, Cisco and Arista Network switches, and NetApp Storage devices.  • Install and test copper, fiber and twinax cable connections using Fluke Network Testing Tools.  • Maintain asset and inventory tracking with Service NOW Asset Management Software  • Implement SPP (Service Pack for ProLiant) updates, Spectre/Meltdown BIOS firmware and iLOM firmware updates on HP servers.  • Replace hardware parts, such as hard drives, DIMMs, Fusion IO PCIe cards, fiber SFPs, HSM cards, etc.  • Implement iLOM configurations on all newly installed and/or ready to be relocated servers.  • Perform systems requirement gathering, analysis and specification, designing, developing, testing, configuring and implementation of the UNIX/Linux Systems.    • Provide remote hands-on production and technical support for Compute, Network and Storage teams and co-ordinate with those teams to ensure the data is being processed accurately without errors and also fix the reoccurrence of any repeating issues.  • Develop timelines for the project delivery and manage projects and resources to the successful completion.  • Build and support OpenStack and VMWare environments.  • Performed daily system monitoring, verified the integrity and availability of all hardware and server resources, and reviewed system and application logs  • Install mail servers such as Postfix, Zimbra (8.0.7), and Dovecot Enterprise Edition (2.2)  • Setup new Dovecot architecture which included Dovecot Proxy servers, Dovecot Director servers, and Dovecot Backend servers. Setup cluster of Zimbra and Dovecot servers. Test Zimbra and Dovecot integration in the same lab environment.  • Install HAproxy software based load balancer and LDAP servers for user access authentication.  • Write shell scripts to create backup files, collecting and analyzing log files, and monitor system load average.  • Work collaboratively with Java App, Operations, QA, Messaging Infrastructure Services, Messaging Engineering, and Product Engineering Teams in the process of installation, configuration and administration of custom web applications using Apache Tomcat.  • Configured and maintained Software Raids, Logical Volume Manager (LVM) and Hardware Raids.  • Configured Dovecot servers talk to Scality Object Storage instances.  • Write, commit, submit, and clone git project repositories from GitHub and Gerrit using GitBash. Linux Systems Administrator EZ Facilities, Inc - Hoffman Estates, IL 2012 to 2014 • Extensively interacted with the WEB, DBA and APP teams in the process of installation, configuration and administration of new Fault Tolerant Cluster Linux servers (mostly RHEL) and VMware ESX servers on IBM, HP and Dell hardware.  • Created Automated Kickstart environment for RHEL distributions.  • Configure services such as DNS, DHCP, NFS, LAMP (Linux+Apache+Mysql+PHP), Apache Web Server and Apache Tomcat, Red Hat JBoss, Samba, FTP, SSH, Telnet, HTTP, RPM and YUM repositories.  • Installed and Upgraded Veritas Storage Foundation High Availability (SFHA).  • Configured Application under Veritas Cluster Services.  • Managed SAN disks under Veritas Volume Manager (VxVM) and Logical Volume Manager (LVM).  • Build, configure and deploy VMware Virtual Machines and templates.  • Configured and maintained 300 servers using Puppet Configuration Management Tool.  • Participated in server consolidation, better hardware utilization and overall utility cost reduction programs by focusing on virtualization technologies.  • Wrote shell scripts for various system tasks such as backups, collecting and sorting logs, installation and monitoring.  • Implement Linux Server patching quarterly.  • Monitor and maintain the disk space, backup systems and tape libraries and implement change controls, capacity planning and growth projections on the systems.  • Upgrading and configuring hardware including network cards, SCSI cards, HBA cards, copper and fiber cables, DIMMs, hard drives, CPU's, and backplanes  • Troubleshoot existing user accounts, security objects and authorizations to resolve security conflicts by creating sudo users, supporting users, setting up new accounts, password resets.  • Create status reports, project plans and attend team meetings to coordinate activities Linux Systems Administrator School Specialty, Inc - Appleton, WI 2010 to 2012 • Participated in migration of NIS accounts into Centrify Environment  • Day-to-day administration on RHEL 4/5 which includes Installation, upgrade & loading patch management & packages  • Configure and maintain Software Raids, Logical Volume Manager (LVM) and Hardware Raids.  • Implement Red Hat Enterprise Linux Kickstart Installation.  • Maintenance of all the diskless clients, servers, workstations and complete Linux system.  • Create, monitor and modify user accounts.  • Configure various network services, such as DNS, HTTP, LDAP, DHCP, NFS, NIS, Sendmail, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, Samba, SSH, FTP    • Develop shell scripts for backups using ufsdump and other UNIX/Linux commands.  • Performance monitoring with conventional tools such as top, sar, netstat, iostat, etc.  • Install, monitor and maintain hardware/software related issues on Linux systems.  • Investigate, install and configure software fail-over system for production Linux servers.  • Monitor and maintain the disk space, backup systems and tape libraries.  • Maintain and schedule company backups and participate in disaster recovery planning, Zoning on Fiber Channel Switches, load balancing the network.  • Planning and coordinating activities related to upgrades and maintenance on the systems.  • Upgraded the FastT Storage Server and tape libraries in the network for backup.  • Managing local and remote printers with Admin tool.  • Create status reports, project plans and attend team meetings to coordinate activities. UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator Rand McNally - Skokie, IL 2009 to 2010 • Evaluate performance of various systems to see that they meet business needs.  • Install, upgrade and maintain Windows, Linux and Solaris operating systems.  • Installation, setup and configuration of RHEL, CentOS, OEL and VMware ESX on HP and IBM hardware.  • Install and manage patches and other software packages using UP2DATE, YUM and RPM.  • Used different Unix/Linux commands to run, maintain, setup schedule work, protect and rescue file systems.  • Added, modified or deleted users' and groups' account on local systems using tools and manual procedures.  • Create automated Kickstart environment for RHEL standard builds for WEB, APP and DB servers.  • Setup FTP, NFS and Samba File sharing on Linux and Windows servers.  • Setup and configured Apache Web Server in Red Hat EL servers.  • Perform daily system monitoring, verify the integrity and availability of all hardware and software resources, and review system and application logs. Education MBA in Information Technology Goldey Beacom College - Wilmington, DE 2017 MBA in International Business Lindenwood University - Saint Charles, MO 2014 BS in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Gazi University - Ankara, TR 2009