Senior Accountant Senior Accountant Senior Accountant - Loeb Enterprises, LLC Astoria, NY Work Experience Senior Accountant Loeb Enterprises, LLC - New York, NY September 2018 to Present New York  • Communicate accurate data, interpretations, and advice to stakeholders on reporting, costing, forecasting, budgets, and analytics relevant to the organization and their industry.  • Prepare, review, and distribute financial statements, MD&A, and other ad-hoc reporting to executives. Answer all related questions and advise management on financial decisions.  • Supervise full-cycle accounting according to US GAAP for different portfolio companies, including revenue, COGS, and expense recognition, inventory and activity-based cost accounting, monthly closing, and other reconciliations.  • Successfully evaluated and implemented new reporting solutions and numerous new reports for different companies. I applied my SQL, data-architecture, and programming knowledge.  • Collaborate with different teams to determine pricing models and key financial drivers. Senior Accountant Infinity Consulting Solutions - New York, NY June 2017 to September 2018 • Extensive problem-solving of data flow through business systems, including Dynamics CRM, Dynamics GP, and data ETLs. Also prepared and interpreted financials, and ad-hoc reports.  • Collaborated with teams to write accounting policies and procedures for compliance purposes and automated numerous reports using programming knowledge.  • Performed monthly and annual closing procedures including subledger reconciliations, and managerial reports. Maintained accurate accounting for accounts payable, accounts receivable, cash receipts, fixed assets, and more. Financial Systems Analyst Alaska USA Federal Credit Union - Anchorage, AK March 2016 to October 2016 • Maintained the organization's primary financial accounting systems, including the general ledger, chart of accounts, accounts payable subledger, purchasing systems subledger, and cost centers chart of accounts.  • Develop custom MS Excel application to map transactions between operational and administrative subsidiary ledgers to the general ledger, which eliminates human error and improves financial data integrity. Auditor In-Charge Altman, Rogers & Company - Anchorage, AK August 2015 to March 2016 Full service financial audits in accordance with US GAAP from engagement letters, audit programs, testwork, walkthroughs, drafting audit finding documentation and letters to board of directors. Payroll Administrator Kakivik Asset Management, LLC - Anchorage, AK February 2013 to February 2014 Payroll administrator for over 500 employees working in the oil & gas industry on the Slope of Alaska. Including accurate accounting for and billing of labor by project to clients. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting in Accounting University of Alaska - Anchorage, AK May 2015 Skills ACCOUNTING, BUDGETING, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FORECASTING, SQL, C#, C++, PYTHON, DATA ARCHITECTURE, POWER BI, SSRS, EXCEL, ARCHITECTURE, BI, General Ledger, Bookkeeping, Quickbooks, Financial Analysis, Financial Reporting, Word, Pivot Tables, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Financial Modeling, Fp&A, ERP, Financial Planning