Project Manager Project Manager Project Manager Montgomery, AL An accomplished certified transitioning Non-Commissioned Officer in the United States Air Force with 6 years of professional experience in System Administration, Supervision, and Project Management. Additional skills include:  • CompTIA Security+  • Active Security Clearance  • Windows Administration  • ITIL Foundations Certified  • Management  • Training & Mentoring  • CompTIA Project+  • Network Security  • Versatile Communication Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Manager United States Air Force May 2018 to October 2019 Plans, Programs, and Resources - United States Air Force - Maxwell Air Force Base - Gunter Annex  Manages short- and long-term cyber projects in support of Business and Enterprise System's (BES) $2.1B mission.    • Manages multiple cross-functional teams while utilizing Agile concepts on deployment of information technology assets, configuration standards and policies set by United States Air Force Officials, and quality of life upgrades across the installation.  • Advises executive leadership on communication projects/initiatives supporting 130 Combat Support Systems.  • Updates and maintains senior executive management wireless communications capabilities consisting of 75 accounts across 3 geographically separated bases and 51 Project Management Offices, transcending 12 functional communities. Administers all devices, negotiating upgrades, costs, and device availability while projecting the technical refresh cycle for each individual device.  • Orchestrates a technical lifecycle plan for an outdated Multifunction and Single Function Printer fleet spread over the entirety of Gunter Annex. Incorporating an annual budget of $60,000 towards revamping and securing the printer network, reducing resources utilized by 25% and saving an estimated $179,000 over 5 years.  • Responsible for administrating and coordinating an annual average of $359,000 worth of network change requests and proper usage of the Change Advisory Process through all customers on the installation.  • Manages Command, Control, Communications, and Computers Systems Requirements providing guidance and solutions for base technology refreshes, emerging technologies, and Enterprise Information Technology as a Service (EITaaS) planning. Supervisor United States Air Force November 2017 to May 2018 Field Assistance Service - United States Air Force - Maxwell Air Force Base - Gunter Annex    Senior System Administrator responsible for workshop training, development, and oversight of daily functions.    • Supervised and mentored 5 team members, enforcing United States Air Force policies by utilizing progressive discipline, Enlisted Performance Reporting (EPR), and professional development towards the Journeyman skill level in each individual specialization.  • Authored and edited 12 volumes of Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for team functions, correcting all outdated terminology, errors, and reduced the risk of a negative mission impact.  • Performed Quality Assurance metrics analysis for a $24 Million Air Force contract, enforcing SLA policies and protecting the illegal distribution of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) on 61K accounts.  • Performed advanced system administration for 35 servers and 61 client systems, allowing quality metrics to exceed industry standards by over 60%.  • Displayed excellent communication skills between leadership and Airmen. Able to clearly convey orders from senior leadership down the chain of command and reciprocate progress or concerns to leadership. Systems Administrator United States Air Force June 2014 to November 2017 Field Assistance Service - United States Air Force - Maxwell Air Force Base - Gunter Annex  Served as a Subject Matter Expert and technician for team of 8 military personnel and 61 contractors.  • Managed Server environment of 35 physical and virtual machines, being primarily responsible for critical updates, installations, and continuity to ensure "five nines" Service Level Agreement (SLA) requirements for 800K Department of Defense users.  • Utilized troubleshooting techniques to provide on-site support for 61 government contractors. Provided 24/7 365 assistance for all issues, hardware and software, that the contractors experienced while documenting problems, solutions, and guidance as tickets in our Government Off the Shelf version of BMC Remedy.  • Executed weekly vulnerability management to reduce critical threats, securing the network and deterring national threats to the Air Force Network.  • Possessed administrative permissions for BMC Remedy, allowing for management of accounts for elevated issues, merging of duplicate accounts with previous incidents, and permissions modification for users.  • Cornerstone for system advisory process and dispatched 430K critical messages to inform and sustain network services for 78 Program Management Offices at 450 Department of Defense sites. Education Bachelor of Science in Network and Operations Security Western Governor's University - Salt Lake City, UT 2020 Associate of Science in Information Technology Management Community College of the Air Force 2017 Skills Microsoft Project, Outlook, budget, Scheduling Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qir21-nicvfhhjgr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information ·        CompTIA A+  ·        CIW Site Development Associate  ·        CompTIA Cloud Essentials  ·        CompTIA Network+  ·        LPI: Linux Essentials  ·        CCNA (expected 2020)