Linux Systems Engineer Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Linux Systems Engineer Work Experience Linux Systems Engineer Apple May 2016 to March 2019 • Installed, configured and updated RHEL servers with new package updates with RPM and YUM service.  • Used Ansible to automate the configuration and deployment of application and automating the server configuration process.  • Monitored system activities such as CPU, Memory, Disk and Swap space usage to avoid performance issues.  • Install and configure DHCP, web (Apache, IIS), mail (SMTP, IMAP, POP3), and file servers on Linux servers.  • Performed daily regular maintenance and configuration tune-up in order to minimize downtime and maximize performance.  • Working knowledge of AWS services, such as Elastic compute cloud, Elastic Block storage, and simple storage service.  • Worked on HP Gen8, Gen9, Gen10 servers.  • Worked on Ansible, Puppet to configure new applications  • Working experience building scalable, highly available, mission critical virtual infrastructures  • 4+ years doing virtualization/virtual system administration.  • Managed over 100+ VMware servers 2003, 2008 R2 & 2012 with VSphere client 5.1  • Built, installed, and tested Linux and VMware servers based on requirements from Design and Architecture or established standards.  • Installation, Configuration, Administration and Trouble shooting of ESX 3.x, Vspere 4.0, Virtual Center, VI Client  • Used Git to keep version control in our environment.  • Experienced with migrating 400+ servers from Redhat 5 to Redhat 7.  • Perform patching for up to 4000 servers using Fortress Endpoint management  • Worked with python codes and development with dev op team  • Worked on AD environment to administer and maintain user or service level accounts.  • Configuration and administration of LDAP, NFS and NIS in Linux and also implemented Samba for sharing of resources between Linux and Windows environments.  • Creating permissions for the file and directories to perform troubleshoot on application and network level to resolve issues.  • Manages user/ group accounts which included creating new accounts and adding them in different groups, setting up user environment, changing passwords, changing default permissions, and setting ACL's.  • Scheduled Cron jobs for automating tasks like, process management, file system management creating and deleting backups, server reboots.  • Implement and Set RAID levels like RAID 0, RAID1, RAID 5, and Raid 10 using LVM.  • Managing user authentication using LDAP servers.  • Swap space management.  • Configured IPTABLES firewall and SElinux contexts on Linux systems for system security.  • Performed Ticket assessment on daily basis for work performed at all levels and documented SOP (Standard Operating Procedure).  • Maintained proper documentation of all the activities carried out during the project. Linux Systems Engineer/ Administrator Hewlett Packard - Austin, TX June 2014 to April 2016 • Installing new/rebuilding existing servers which support infrastructure (NIS, NFS, PXE boot, Kickstart File Servers, Automount, DNS, DHCP, Netbackup and Print Servers)  • Experienced in installing, configuring and maintaining VMware ESX and ESXi.  • Built multiple ESXI host servers, added them to Vcenter and moved machines using Vmotion, and administer VM on hypervisor ESXi.  • Responsible for keeping all VMware ESXi hosts up to date with patches and upgrades.  • Experience in design and development of applications using .NET Framework, C#.NET, ADO.NET, LINQ, Visual Studio 2003/2005/2008, AJAX, SQL Server 2008, UML.  • Strong knowledge of various procedural and object-oriented programming languages such as C#.  • Maintain and managed over 300+ RHEL servers on various infrastructure platforms such as Dell, VMware.  • Experienced with data protocols such as DNS, HTTP, LDAP, SMTP, FTP, and SNMP.  • Performed monthly security / system patches and updates manually.  • Experienced with basic Bash Scripting.  • Managed Operating Systems using the Nagios monitoring tools.  • Troubleshoots network related issues, security related issues, capturing packets using tools such as TCPdump, Wireshark.  • Responded to all LINUX systems problems 24x7 as a part of an on-call rotation and resolving issues in a timely.  • Executing and resolving queries regarding application and technical issues.  • Working hand in hand with senior staff and client to resolve complicated issues. Linux System Administrator United Healthcare Group - Hartford, CT April 2012 to April 2014 • Monitor server hardware and configuration to ensure integrity of data and software Provides level II help support assistance to the PC Support department.  • Basic installation of OS using pxe, server security, server monitoring using Nagios.  • Updated/patched Linux-Virtual Machine in VMware clusters.  • Worked with File System includes UNIX file System, and Network file system.  • Set up the user groups and access controls.  • Provided on-call support using the Remedy Ticket System for routine system administration issues.  • Worked with netstat, iostat monitoring commands  • Added users to NIS and AD and resolved logon issue.  • Planned, scheduled and implemented OS patches on both Solaris & Linux boxes as a part of proactive maintenance. Education Bachelor's in computer Science in computer Science NEW YORK CITY COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY Present High school diploma FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT HIGH SCHOOL June 2003 Skills Active directory, Dhcp, Ldap, Nfs, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Telnet, Vmware, Apache, Linux, Shell scripting, Nis, Raid, Udp, Dns, Nagios, Networking, Scripting, Ftp, Nmap