Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer Hagerstown, MD Work Experience Systems Engineer LCG Inc - Rockville, MD March 2017 to August 2019 Maintained onsite NIH data center, physical servers, virtual hosts and 70+ virtual machines.  ? Rebuilt VMware 6.5 host environment including a new VCenter virtual appliance.  ? Rebuilt NetBackup environment with local and off site Quantum storage.  ? Deployment of Cohesity backup cluster with migration from NetBackup.  ? Deployment of Nutanix cluster, migration of all data off EMC SAN to Nutanix.  ? Migrated from VMWare 6.5 to Nutanix Acropolis as primary hypervisor.  ? NIH (NINDS) GPO policy editing, testing and customization to ensure compliance.  ? Responsible for all data backup, restore and vaulting to Azure DR site.  ? IBM BigFix administration including desktop, server, mac and third party software patching.  ? Microsoft Azure administration and infrastructure build out. Systems Engineer K12 Inc - Herndon, VA May 2016 to March 2017 Setup and configuration of Microsoft WDS.  ? Setup and configuration of Microsoft Hyper-V host cluster.  ? Active Directory auditing, management and clean up via GUI and Powershell.  ? Resolution of daily ticket escalations via Service Now ticketing system.  ? Racking, cabling, and setup of Dell servers.  ? Management and auditing of Exchange 2010.  ? Management of Microsoft 365 with multiple subdomains.  ? Lync 2010 local client management, currently in project to convert to Skype for Business.  ? Skype for Business cloud management for Microsoft 365 users.  ? Sharepoint online/365 management of pages, access and general user support.  ? Manage and deployment of updates on WSUS for servers and computers. Systems Engineer HealthCare Strategies - Columbia, MD April 2015 to May 2016 Migration of Exchange from 2007 to Exchange 2013 Hybrid Office 365.  ? Setup and design of Sharepoint for Office 365.  ? Setup and configuration of Skype for business formerly Microsoft Lync platform.  ? Setup and configuration of Microsoft WSUS.  ? Setup and configuration of Microsoft WDS.  ? Manage and maintain Avaya phone system with recording and EVM.  ? Migration of physical and virtual hosts to hosting datacenter including P2V.  ? Design and setup of new virtual host environment with migration from XenCenter to VMware.  ? Group Policy auditing and additions for streamlining environment and dated policies.  ? Management and configuration of Spiceworks for network and server monitoring.  ? Maintain all local and remote systems for all users including all helpdesk requests.  ? Disaster recovery design and implementation. Systems Engineer Global Data Consultants - Chambersburg, PA May 2014 to September 2014 Migration of internal Exchange from 2007/10 to Exchange 2013 and Office 365.  ? Deployment of Dell SAN infrastructure including LUN provisioning and security.  ? Design and setup of complete customer infrastructure including P2V, Hyper-V, VMware 5.x and Exchange 2013/365 Hybrid.  ? Responsible for LYNC administration and management in a large scale environment.  ? Managed and maintained Cisco Unified Connections Manager voice system for 400 plus users.  ? Maintained internal systems infrastructure updates, active directory management and break fix. Systems Engineer - NOC Team Lead Skyline Network Engineering - Glen Burnie, MD July 2011 to May 2014 Managed a network operations center team of 9 individuals, conducted quarterly/ yearly reviews increases, scheduling, on call rotations, hiring, dismissals, training and documentation. Responsible for meeting high level SLA for the State of Maryland's network uptime as well as state and private customer interfacing during outages.  ? Worked with private industry clients to develop, as well as implement needed environment changes and hardware setup from racking through live handoff to client.  ? Implemented and maintained multiple private industry environments using VMware 5.x, including group policy, active directory management, file server and DFS setup.  ? Responsible for maintaining all customer and internal hardware for multiple platforms, deployments, inventory management and procurement working directly with industry providers.  ? Setup and maintenance of local and offsite disaster recovery site using Commvault, VDP and Backup Exec software for internal and customer environments to ensure data integrity.  ? Created and maintained documentation on projects and implemented solutions through change control and standard operating procedures. Systems Administrator - Team Lead Dell Federal Government Services - Fairfax, VA July 2009 to July 2011 Customer service team lead where I was responsible for employee training, SOP creation and maintenance.  ? Promoted to team lead of the second largest building operated by NIAID at the NIH and was responsible for oversight of six technicians, tier3/4 support and maintaining the NIH SLA agreement.  ? Provided a wide array of services including hardware break fix, Apple MAC support, imaging, Microsoft Office 2003/07/10, OS support, networking, printer deployments and BlackBerry server management. Education Bachelors of Science in Information Systems Management University of Maryland University College - Hagerstown, MD June 2016 to Present Associates ITT Technical Institute - Youngstown, OH April 2002 to March 2004 Skills Exchange, Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp, Juniper, Orion, Systems administration, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Dns, Firewalls, Iis, Networking, Remedy, Scom, Migrations, Netbackup, Hyper-v, System Administrator, BigFix (2 years) Additional Information Technical Expertise:  Operating Systems Server 2016, 2012/R2, Server 2008 R2, Server 2003, Windows 10/7/XP/98  Software/Features  Office 2007/2010/2013/2016/365, Lync/Skype for Business, Exchange 2007/2010/2013/365 Hybrid-Migrations, Active Directory, Group Policy, DHCP, DNS, TCP/IP, Citrix XenCenter, Cisco Unified Communications Manager, VMWare 3.5 - 6.5, Symantec Antivirus, Certificate Management, Backup Exec, NetBackup, Cohesity, Nutanix/Acropolis, SQL Server, Commvault, Microsoft Dynamics, Avaya Site Administration, Microsoft IIS, Microsoft WSUS, Hyper-V, IBM BigFix and Microsoft WDS.    Ticketing Systems Salesforce, Heat, Remedy, Spiceworks, Service Now and RT  Networking  HP Switches/Routers, Juniper Firewalls, Sonicwall, OSI Model understanding. Comfortable working in server racks, working with fiber, and managing patch panels/cabling.    Monitoring/Automated Systems Administration Spiceworks, Orion Solar Winds, WhatsUp Gold IBM BigFix, and SCOM.  Hardware All desktop and server components including 3rd party vendor appliances.  Other Video Teleconferencing and Unified Messaging Systems (Polycom, Tandberg, Lync, Skype for Business and Cisco)