Windows Architecture Consultant Windows Architecture Consultant Seeking Cloud, Infrastructure, and DevOps roles. Wilmington, DE Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Windows Architecture Consultant NaviSec, LLC - Tampa, FL March 2019 to Present At NaviSec, I've ran and audited client environments for HIPAA compliance standards and assisted in remediation for client staff. Dealing with medical clients has proven to be engaging and beneficial to my skills.    • PowerShell for insight into client split domain environments, services  • including: AD, GP, Exchange, MFA,  • Provided full reporting and documentation for staff to remediate  • Full analysis of both web and db servers using Microsoft Best Practices  standards for reference  • Nessus and Qualys for infrastructure health and CVE reporting  • Remediation and patching for exploitable Windows systems DevSecOps Enginner ProLink Solutions - Englewood, CO March 2017 to July 2019 I returned to ProLink given past work reputation and proven automation skills with cloud infrastructure across all 3 major platforms. During this time, I’ve built and generated ideas for issues encountered with an ever growing client base. Passed both SOC Type I & II for the first time on a two person ITS team. I lead and provided solution adoption into cloud and web for the stack.    • AWS tools/services including: EC2, ELB, S3, RDS, Inspector, Config, Systems Manager, CloudWatch,Terraform, ELK, Nagios and Datadog   • SaaS deployments and config requests processed in a timely and effective manner through CI/CD while following and defining compliance standards  • Pentesting automation and procurement along with development support for security fixes within microsoft web applications  • Server and service architecture/patching/security, reporting for all on-site and cloud hosted architecture for compliance and oversight purposes. Managed and maintained full on-site and AWS split domain environments and added new functions/solutions for security/cost saving purposes  • Automation of monitoring, IDS and SIEM functionality  • API Implementations for Compliance Auditing and Policy regulations Systems Engineer Tek-Hut, Inc - Boise, ID January 2017 to March 2017 At Tek-Hut, I was responsible for implementing new projects and servers into School District infrastructure. In this role, setup WDS/MDT for School IT directors to utilize for their end users and students. Team of one for system engineering with over 15 school districts across the NW.    • AD, DHCP, DNS, DPM, GP, PowerShell & SCCM consultant for Clients  • Setup 15 host Hyper-V datacenter running over 500 VMS running: Unix, UTM, VoIP and Windows  • Content Filtering, Spam Filtering, Firewall Management Systems Engineer ProLink Solutions - Englewood, CO November 2014 to October 2016 As System Engineer with ProLink, I was responsible for finding software to allow automated updates for end user 3rd party software. Finding effective Penetration Testing software for internally developed web applications. Managing and deploying development tier machines and even configuring MDT/WDS for easy workstation/server deployment. AD, DNS, GP. software, hardware, IIS/SQL configuration and setup.     • Documentation and for client usage of services  • Maintained AWS and deployed new services for given use cases  • Handled purchasing/quotes/vendors for H/S solutions  • Automating and optimizing operational tasks Systems Engineer SharpShooter Imaging - Wheat Ridge, CO January 2013 to November 2014 My time at SharpShooter was spent helping employees troubleshoot all kinds of software and hardware issues throughout the US via remote sessions. I'd assist with camera configurations, Windows servers and industry grade photography printers. I gained exposure to Linux web servers and configurations using Puppet/Chef during this time. I learned most of my skills here in a fire drill type scenario, and enjoyed it for quite some time. It's where most of my internal backend OS skills generated from.    • Windows imaging, provisioning and automation  • Documentation for site support issues  • CentOS exposure and design for web services  • Tier 3 level support  • Soft skills  • On Call Scheduling Systems Administrator Sooper Credit Union - Denver, CO January 2011 to January 2013 Sooper was my first hands on, corporate position. Worked with a department lead and Network Administrator in a mixed Windows/Unix environment. Together, we worked and configured branch migrations of Phone/ Systems and Networks for the Data Center. I was responsible for introducing new software stacks into the environment for production level use.    • PCI Compliance Reporting for Audits  • Windows and UNIX server and software level configuration  • Patching and Security for all devices  • Backup and Redundancy  • Workstation Imaging and Implementation Education High school or equivalent in General Chatfield High School - Littleton, CO Skills Kubernetes (2 years), Docker (2 years), AWS (6 years), Windows (10+ years), Powershell (7 years), Azure (3 years), SOC Type 2 I/2/3 (2 years), PCI (2 years), Automation (7 years), YAML (3 years), Terraform (3 years), GCP (2 years), YARA (2 years), IIS (8 years), SQL (7 years), Web Design (10+ years), CMS Management (6 years), VMware (8 years), Hyper-V (8 years), XenServer (4 years), VOIP (8 years) Links https://nomtechbytes.com https://github.com/zuphzuph Certifications/Licenses AWS SysOps March 2019 to March 2022