Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - Midwest Tape, LLC Hudson, MI Accomplished and adaptable IT Professional distinguished by a strong technical background, established project management experience, and practical cross-functional business process knowledge. Truly passionate about IT, I have frequently championed initiatives to better facilitate business goals with technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Midwest Tape, LLC - Holland, OH 2014 to Present Holland, OH 2014 - Present  An international firm servicing libraries with physical and digital media across the U.S. & Canada ~ 350+ Employees  Senior Systems Administrator  Hired to ensure systems continuity while facilitating company growth into an enterprise class organization, which supports distribution of both physical product and digital product, through our media streaming application. Leveraging professional knowledge to help revitalize and replace existing legacy technologies and standardize IT Infrastructure policies in an effort to better support core business priorities. Also responsible for overseeing project planning and completion for a Jr. Systems Administrator and a Desktop Support Technician.  • Troubleshoot tier 2 and 3 infrastructure issues to maintain business operations SLA's.  • Overhaul of Active Directory including File Security by implementing role-based AD structure.  • Selection and implementation of Mimecast Anti-Spam to replace McAfee solution. I also implemented Mimecast Email Archiving to reduce Exchange footprint on AWS Storage. Network Engineer Rarey-Roth, Inc - Findlay, OH 2013 to 2014 Hired to bring manufacturing IT Support expertise to a small, managed service provider who routinely serviced manufacturing facilities with limited IT staff onsite. Designed infrastructure solutions for customers, provided excellent customer support in line with company SLA's, and facilitated business needs for customers of various sizes who served many different industries.  • Installed new Dell Equillogic SAN and Cisco Core Switches for manufacturing company while maintaining service outages within their allowable periods reducing production impact.  • Recovered VMware ESX server for a small law firm without data loss while minimizing company downtime.  • Installed and configured Microsoft SSCM for small non-profit agency, which was used to maintain anti-virus and other software across their network. Systems Administrator Autoneum North America, Inc 2011 to 2013 Promoted internally from previous position at corporate headquarters and relocated to manufacturing facility in Ohio. Responsible for the day-to-day upkeep of previously installed IT Systems between two buildings, the main manufacturing facility and an off-site warehouse  • Implemented new VOIP phone system to replace legacy PBX.  • Designed, planned, budgeted, and implemented complete IT System for new manufacturing facility located two miles from the original plant.  • Designed and implemented additional networking capacity for the main plant including new MDF's, contracting of installing fiber runs to both new and existing MDF's across the plant, and new Cisco switches in order to facilitate implantation of FactoryTalk MES Software. IT Administrator Autoneum North America, Inc - Farmington Hills, MI 2010 to 2011 Hired as an entry level IT Administrator responsible for first level desktop and server support as well as help desk administration. Education MBA in Information Systems University of Toledo 2018 BS in Information Technology University of Toledo 2017 AS in Information Systems Oakland Community College 2010 Skills Active Directory (8 years), Anti-Spam (6 years), Cisco (3 years), SAN (6 years), Vmware (7 years), System Administrator (7 years), Powershell (5 years), System Admin (8 years), Customer Service, Excel, Strategic Planning, Exchange, Network Administration Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ashley-carpenter-mba-4265ba20/ Additional Information Core Competencies  Management: Strategic Planning ? Requirements Analysis ? Vendor Selection ? Cost Analysis ?  Staff Resource Allocation ? Project Management ? Project Budgeting  Technology: Windows Server OS (2016 & lower) ? Windows Desktop OS (10 & lower) ? VMware ESXi?  Active Directory ? Group Policy ? Cisco Call Manager ? Anti-Virus ? Anti-Spam ?  SAN Technologies ? Troubleshooting ? Disaster Recovery Planning ? Asset Management