IT Helpdesk Manager IT Helpdesk Manager IT Helpdesk Manager/ Systems Administrator Aurora, IL Responsible for leading the Helpdesk Team and ensuring operational infrastructure including; servers, networks, PC’s and other end user computing environment are running efficiently and effectively. Responsible for monitoring and troubleshooting key systems and services (e.g. Active Directory replication, DNS, backups, etc.) and associated network infrastructure to ensure they remain healthy, operational, effective and accurate; Also responsible for applying best practices to implementing network and system changes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Helpdesk Manager Fort Dearborn Co - Elk Grove Village, IL 2018 to Present Responsible for leading the Helpdesk Team and ensuring operational infrastructure including; servers, networks, PC's and other end user computing environment are running efficiently and effectively. Responsible for monitoring and troubleshooting key systems and services (e.g. Active Directory replication, DNS, backups, etc.) and associated network infrastructure to ensure they remain healthy, operational, effective and accurate; Also responsible for applying best practices to implementing network and system changes.  • Promote a high level of customer satisfaction and SLA adherence by providing 24/7 monitoring, operations and support for back office infrastructure (in-house and hosted) as well as end-user functions.  • Responsible for support of server and storage infrastructure in a highly available environment. This includes Windows Server Operating Systems, Active Directory, ESX Clusters, server hardware, and storage hardware.  • Install new and rebuild existing servers. Configure hardware, peripherals, services, and settings, directories, in accordance with standards and project /operational requirements.  • Assist with systems problems, determine causes, recommend and implement solutions as required.  • Develop, deploy, and support new policies and solution designs into the organization.  • Resolve incident management tickets as they arise and ensure timely resolution.  • Maintain system performance by performing system monitoring and analysis, and performance tuning; troubleshooting system hardware, software, networks and operating and system management systems; designing and running system load/stress testing; escalating application problems to vendor. Systems Administrator Wise Plastics Technologies - Saint Charles, IL 2015 to 2018 Responsible for delivering a complete range of 24/7 IT support. Demonstrate support for all severity levels in case of mission-critical issues. Support and implement migration projects. Provide support for IT management software, handling enterprise systems, security, networks, storage, applications, databases and more.  • Worked with upper management to develop plans, forecasts, and budgets for the I.T. department  • Established and maintain network users, directories, and security  • Installed and maintenance of network infrastructure  • Oversaw recover data via backups  • Configure and administer ERP system (IQMS)  • Prioritize and troubleshoot helpdesk tickets  • Configure and upgrade hardware/software  • 24/7 on call responsibilities for 3 sites  • Created and updated IT related best practices and standard operating procedures  • Onboard training of e-mail and phone systems  • Responsible for SQL queries and Crystal Report writing  • VOIP administration (Shoretel)  • Interview, train, and evaluate Helpdesk personnel  • Installed and managed 40 cameras and extra camera server.  • Automated tasks through ERP and Powershell / batch scripts Network Administrator AST Corporation - Naperville, IL 2013 to 2015 Provide senior-level strategic to the NOC Team members ensuring an operational infrastructure for the companies Windows 20003/2008 Servers, Active Directory, and Exchange 2007/2010 and IIS 6.0 infrastructure. Analyze and resolve problems associated with server, and network. Design, implement, maintain, and support Exchange, Share Point, virus protection, Email Archiving security and VMware V Sphere Administration. Monitor and troubleshoot routing and switch configurations, and issues. Prepare documentation on primary areas of responsibility and solutions to problems, and regular status reports.  • Responsible for technical analysis, maintenance and troubleshooting of Servers (MS Windows, Linux, ), as well as Implemented system changes, patches and operating system upgrades.  • Monitored server availability and performance systems in a global environment.  • Responded to and troubleshoot alarms as well as supported the systems in a timely manner within set guidelines and procedures according to best practices, standards and processes. Education BA in Information Systems Security Westwood College - Woodridge, IL Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, TCP/IP, DHCP