Incident Management Analyst Incident Management Analyst Incident Management Analyst - BlackLine, Inc Simi Valley, CA IT Management professional with 20 years experience in management and technical IT roles. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Incident Management Analyst BlackLine, Inc - Woodland Hills, CA December 2017 to Present Public Company\SaaS Accounting Solution\2.6B\900 + Worldwide FTE's    Manage BlackLine's incident, major incident and problem management process. Coordinate the response and recovery activities for organization priority incidents. This includes collaboration with response teams, determining the root cause of incidents and work with stakeholders and responsible parties to remediate any identified gaps or failures; Escalate issues to management in a timely manner with appropriate information regarding exposure, severity and current activity.    • Manage & drive high severity incidents which impact organization's critical SaaS applications.  • Direct postmortem process that includes, creating incident intake document, performing root cause analysis utilizing the 5 Whys analysis technique, documenting and holding staff responsible for postmortem action items and writing customer facing RCA communications.  • Act as escalation point for various departments into the major incident process.  • Manage and maintain problem management process and procedures.  • Created and maintain both detailed and high-level documentation for incident, major incident and problem management processes.  • Responsible for and chair weekly production meeting presentation that presents key KPI's for incident management, problem and change management, SRE reports, Security Operations report and System Administration and System Engineering performance reports to department managers.  • Key accomplishments include: reduction in average age to RCA resolution, reduction of backlogged open RCA's tickets and stabilized Incident, Problem and RCA processes.  • Additional responsibilities include development and organization of department vendor management to include quarterly business reviews with key vendors. IT Manager DataDirect Networks, Inc - Chatsworth, CA June 2015 to September 2017 Privately Held Corporation\Computer Storage Manufacturer\250M\500+ Worldwide FTE's    • Successfully transformed underperforming service desk. Expanded service desk operations support to 2 international offices, increased number of services supported, while experiencing reduction in service desk headcount.  • Improved team metrics on a monthly basis for FCR, SLO, customer satisfaction, response time goals, and overall service scores. Implemented successful KCS program for knowledge base development.  • Developed and implemented team and individual annual goals to achieve continuous self-improvement.  • Co-project lead in successful implementation of new ITSM tools for incident, service request, problem management, change management and new user-facing portal. Project included user feedback, staff training, and implementation of updated service catalog. Resulting implementation resulted in a 1-year ROI and a 3-year cost savings of $86K. Senior Systems Administrator DataDirect Networks, Inc - Chatsworth, CA June 2014 to December 2015 • Performed 2 FTE roles as Senior System Administrator and Service Desk Manager (06/2015-12/2015)  • Responsible for the technical design, planning, implementation, performance tuning and disaster recovery for mission critical worldwide Microsoft enterprise systems.  • Lead or co-lead project teams for global implementation of Hyper-V, SQL Server consolidation, Microsoft System Center suite of applications, DHCP and AD upgrades. Systems Administrator DataDirect Networks, Inc - Chatsworth, CA August 2012 to June 2014 • Recruited by Senior Director of IT of a $250M global computer storage manufacturer to support IT Operations.  • Successfully implemented key Microsoft System Center services for backup, monitoring services and configuration management utilizing best practices enabling maturing of IT services.  • Delivered two office moves, including new corporate HQ, on time and budget, with no open issues after project completion.  • Implemented upgrade of Citrix XenApp from initial POC to full-scale enterprise functionality. Senior Systems Administrator Sunkist Growers, Inc - Sherman Oaks, CA August 2011 to August 2012 Privately Held Corporation\Citrus Cooperative\$1B\300+ FTE's    • Achieved 100% SLA metrics and SLA uptime requirements in support and operations of VMware environment.  • Significantly improved disaster recovery practices, including two successful full-site failover tests.  • Collaborated with team in the delivery of data center move within scope, budget, project deliverable and timeframe requirements.    Previous experience as Senior Systems Manager, Systems Manager, and Senior Help Desk Technician is available upon request. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Management San Diego State University - San Diego, CA Present Skills Itil, Incident Management, Itsm Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/drabowitt