Business Systems Administrator Business <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Business Systems Administrator - Comar LLC Mount Laurel, NJ Obtain a professional position in manufacturing that focuses on Lean & GMP in an ISO or QA supported environment. Work Experience Business Systems Administrator Comar LLC - Voorhees, NJ 2012 to Present Core Responsibilities:  Entry, maintenance, auditing and analysis of data and processes within the corporate and manufacturing business systems for 6 independent facilities across the US and in Puerto Rico.    Setup of new and maintenance of existing raw materials, components & packaging.  Coordination of QA documentation and work instructions to be routed to each facility's production teams.    Component build resulting in the production of finished goods and efficiency auditing of specific manufacturing cells and work centers.    Setup and data maintenance of outside vendors & contractors.    Specific Systems: MFG ERP (IQMS), CRM (Sales Force) & Business Intelligence (Domo).    System Utilization and Support:  Monitor each plant to ensure user efficiency when performing day-to-day functions.    Attend vendor training to hone skills and assist with the implementation of upgrades and other enhancements of the system.    Assist Business Systems Manager to champion activities, collect data for teams and departments upon request and develop SOPs and visual work instructions.    Comar LLC  Inside Sales Account Manager    Core Responsibilities:  The central point of contact for customers/prospects and interface between outside contacts and all internal depts.    Provide quotes and pricing, process orders, provide release schedule, status & expedition.    Respond to inquiries regarding capabilities and prepare technical/regulatory documents as requested.    Initiate and assist with "Support Issues" i.e. QA investigations, material returns & account credits.    Provide sales support and metrics to Regional Account Managers to maximize efforts on new & existing business development.    Participate on special project teams & technical training sessions as necessary. Sales Consultant Pharmakon Corp - Cinnaminson, NJ August 2010 to May 2011 Core Responsibilities:  Managing an account base of large to mid size pharmaceutical and medical device companies. The primary focus being the design, production and sale of visual marketing displays and graphics for use by external sales teams when directly educating physicians.    Contacting Sr. Management in Brand Marketing, Product Mgt, Commercial Ops, and Convention Planning to develop solutions for custom table top, regional and national marketing displays and visual camaigns.    Work directly with a client's advertising or fulfillment agency to obtain files and direction for the production of graphics and signage.    Coordinate with internal production to manufacture demo units and samples. (E.g. Displays, Flip Charts, IM Printing, etc)    Research and analysis into the architecture of therapeutic areas and product pipelines including new FDA approvals.    Provide monthly SSO wins, pipeline, closing forecast, and detailed meeting minutes. Education Camden County College - Blackwood, NJ 1995 to 1996 High School Diploma Holy Cross High School - Delran, NJ 1990 to 1994 Certification Data Train Institute Skills Business Intelligence (6 years), CRM (6 years), CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (6 years), EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUP (6 years), ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING (6 years) Additional Information Skills  Software: MS Office, ERP, CRM and BI capable    ERP Bill of Materials: Multi-density plastics, colorant blends, molding tools & equipment. Assembly of packaging systems for liquids and custom component solutions.    Sales Cycle:  Lead to Invoice, Account & Pipeline Management, Customer Service & Support