Advanced Support Center Technician Advanced Support Center Technician Advanced Support Center Technician - Glowpoint, Inc Littleton, CO Work Experience Advanced Support Center Technician Glowpoint, Inc - Denver, CO May 2018 to Present ?    Tracked a list averaging 15+ issues across multiple clients, and communicated regularly with both affected staff and manufacturer support regarding the problem’s status and our plan forward.  ?    Diagnosed network equipment and infrastructure remotely, as well as coordinating with non-technical onsite staff regarding any physical steps necessary. UC Support Technician Glowpoint - Littleton, CO January 2018 to May 2018 ?    Provided video & VoIP conference troubleshooting support for client companies, including connectivity, network settings, and router diagnostics/reconfiguration. Tech Support Specialist Murley, Inc - Denver, CO May 2017 to November 2017 ?    As the sole onsite technician for all Denver and Boulder-based clients, I established and maintained an excellent rapport with both team members and end users.  ?    Handled network administration for all client companies, including wifi site surveys, access point installation & configuration, and firewall rulesets. IT Assistant US Wellness - Germantown, MD March 2016 to September 2016 ?    Assisted with domain migration of 25+ office staff on HIPAA-compliant laptops; as well as Outlook backup and migration of each staff member from Exchange to Office 365.  ?    Conducted wifi site survey and analysis; installed and set up new network of 3 Cisco Meraki access points, along with locating and removing old access points to reduce wireless congestion. Systems Administrator Lewis-Clark State College - Lewiston, ID August 2013 to May 2014 ?    Revised semesterly lab re-imaging process to streamline automation and monitor progress of OS installation on bank of several hundred computers, reducing man hours by 20-30/year. Computer Lab Monitor Lewis-Clark State College - Lewiston, ID February 2012 to May 2013 Education Bachelor's of Applied Science in Information Systems Analysis Lewis-Clark State College - Lewiston, ID May 2015 Skills Cabling, Ethernet, Hardware, NOC, VOIP (3 years), Office 365 (2 years), Scripting (5 years), Networking (8 years) Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching CCNA Security Security+ A+ Certified December 2010 to Present Certified Wireless Network Administrator