IT Systems Engineer IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer IT Systems Engineer - Fugro, Inc Houston, TX Work Experience IT Systems Engineer Fugro, Inc - Houston, TX February 2018 to Present • Created virtual environments under various subscriptions in Microsoft Azure to migrate applications to the cloud.  • Was tier 3 support and subject matter expert for Office 365 applications (including SharePoint and Microsoft Teams.  • Operated in the role of Project Manager for all assigned projects. Oversaw made sure all projects ran smoothly and were completed by targeted deadline  • Created and managed VMs using VMware. Also patched all VMs and physical servers using BatchPatch.  • Managed site collections in SharePoint, as well as created and designed SharePoint sites as requested. IT Specialist United States Department of Agriculture - Beltsville, MD August 2016 to February 2018 • Served as technical liaison on all projects that needed the research, installation, and start-up of new applications to meet business needs.  • Created specification and requirement documentation to get new applications approved for business use.  • Trained coworkers and created standard operational procedures documentation on how to use the applications  • Built servers, and handled setting up Group Policy as well as setup IIS sites  • Handled all rollouts and OS upgrades for the training department  • Developed and maintained SharePoint site as well managed site permissions IT Support Specialist American Capital, LTD - Bethesda, MD September 2015 to August 2016 • Utilized the Service Now ticketing system to handle the everyday computer issues end user encountered  • Worked with day to day systems such as Active Directory, Microsoft Office, Windows 7, Mobile Devices, and proprietary software in person, or over the phone.  • Collaborated with various departments within IT to rollout different projects and programs to the business Systems Administrator Fidelity National Financial - Seattle, WA May 2014 to June 2015 • Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers.  • Continue the up keep of network servers (using Microsoft Server 2003 and 2008) such as file servers, and VPN gateways  • Worked with day to day systems such as Active Directory and supported Office 365, Windows 7, and Mobile Devices in person, over the phone, or using SCCM.  • Handle office moves by setting up network equipment and installing computers and other equipment and applications Education Masters of Science in Information Technology in Network Management Colorado Technical University December 2017 Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Technology in Electrical Engineering Technology University of North Carolina at Charlotte, School of Engineering - Charlotte, NC May 2011 Skills Sharepoint, Active directory, Vmware, Exchange, Imaging, Windows 10, Mac, Documentation, Technical documentation Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/joxho7rpo2drjxd4 Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1je8qikvjkjmv6gb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Areas of Expertise  • Active Directory, VMware, AWS, Technical Documentation, Computer Imaging  • Patching, Software Installs, Mobile Device Support, ServiceNow Ticketing System  • Microsoft Azure, Intune, Exchange, SharePoint, Office 365 Applications, Microsoft Teams, Windows 10, Mac OSX