Richland Hills - Dispatcher Richland Hills - Dispatcher Richland Hills - Dispatcher Richland Hills, TX Work Experience Richland Hills - Dispatcher National HME January 2017 to April 2018 -Software used: Fleetmatics; Google Maps  • Responded to customer request with information about product availability, shipping information and status updates.  • Evaluated and adjusted routes to achieve daily objectives.  • Trained, mentored and guided junior employees in proper procedures and daily work performance.  • Prepared daily delivery and work schedules to maximize coverage  • Kept track of all personnel in the field and all completed deliveries or delays.  • Documented all changes in computer tracking system.  • Watched dispatch board and prioritized calls.  • Monitored traffic and weather conditions and alerted drivers of potential issues.  • Established long-term customer relationships through prompt and courteous service. Richland Hills - IT Systems Administrator National HME January 2018 to March 2018 • Setup users in Active Directory.  • Linked computers to the network and to peripheral equipment, including printers and scanners.  • Answered calls and emails at the company's help desk, assisting employees and customers with troubleshooting computer issues.  • Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades.  • Provided documentation on start-up, shut down and first level troubleshooting of processes to help desk staff.  • Provided maintenance and development of bug fixes and patch sets for existing web applications.  • Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders.  • Delivered and assisted with initial printer, desktop and laptop setup with multiple monitors. Richland Hills - Patient Care Representative National HME April 2016 to January 2017 • Answered more than 50 calls each day.  • Worked with patients and families to develop future plans and discuss care actions.  • Reviewed each step of patient care and made proactive adjustments to avert issues.  • Handled prescription refill requests.  • Updated documentation and reports detailing patient activities, care actions and hospital determinations.  • Resolved problems with areas such as communication and billing that could negatively impact services.  • Scheduled approximately 200 patients per week and made reminder calls.  • Evaluate effectiveness of current strategies with interdisciplinary team and utilized recommendations to make permanent improvements to care standards.  • Maintain confidentiality and compliance standards at all times.  • Responded to patient queries and concerns in a professional and timely manner.  • Liaised between hospital departments to facilitate effective communication. Education High School Diploma Birdville High School 2015 Skills FAST LEARNER, Dispatch (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS  • Fast Learner  • Computer-savvy  • Excellent time management  • Windows OS Proficient  • Strong work ethic  • Communication  • Teamwork