LIMS Administrator / Lead Developer LIMS <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Lead Developer Jackson, MI Work Experience LIMS Administrator / Lead Developer MI Bioresearch / Covance - Ann Arbor, MI June 2017 to Present Lead developer of a LabWare LIMS v7.1 system and sole administrator helping the organization run immuno-oncology studies along with statistical analysis and exportable reports. All flexible features were written by myself after meeting with staff, completing project assessment plans, and developing and testing the creations myself. Front end of software was LabWare v7.1, Backend was Microsoft SQL Server 2016 handled via interop from LabWare (Code written in LIMS Basic, a language that is proprietary but very similar to Visual Basic).    Report generation was performed with both Crystal Reports and exporting SQL data sets to Microsoft Excel telmplates via OLE Automation.    The system I designed was one of the primary acquisition reasons for our company when sold to Covance in March 2019 as it allows the organization to scale studies ran as opposed to the baseline of an in-house Excel based Study Execution program. Systems Administrator Jackson County Medical Care Facility - Jackson, MI April 2016 to April 2017 Manage and maintain a healthcare IT environment with respect to healthcare regulations such as HIPAA and HITECH. Daily tasks include reviewing security logs, architecting technical organizational solutions, ticket queue review for work requests, and various niche IT duties. Responsible for security policy compliance, budget review, policy and procedure for IT roadmap goals, and maintaining vendor relationships. Also required to have consistent deliverables such as audit reports. Desktop Support Specialist Intermediate University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI September 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities  - Resolve issues in a timely manner with regards to using a ticketing system.    - Image and deploy computer systems to be used by faculty and staff (Windows 7, OS X Yosemite, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6)    - Install software licensed by the university for usage within licensing restrictions.    - Help plan for future possible improvements to department technical offerings.    - Inventory and asset management and disposition.    - Active Directory usage to managing groups and computers and users.    - Data backup and restoration.    - Malicious software removal and security reporting    Accomplishments  - Helped write documentation to explicitly cover the installation of software as well as change log bugs and workarounds.    - Helped improve deployment processes to ensure machine stability upon deployment.    - Helping train a temporary employee.    Skills Used  - Technical knowledge of computer systems.    - Social and communications skills to help faculty and staff more accurately identify their wants and needs in computer solutions.    - Timeliness and scheduling of meetings on time. Systems Administrator Martinrea Industries - Manchester, MI May 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities  - Manage Microsoft Server 2008 R2 Domain Controller and related Domain Forrests  - Manage Cisco IOS 12 Routing and Switching Environment, along with Juniper Firewalls  - Manage SQL 2008 R2 Standard Database implementation  - Manage AS400 Solarsoft ERP SQL Database system  - Perform general hardware maintenance and support  - Write custom software scripts in Perl, Powershell v3.0, and some occasional C#.  - Perform advanced data recovery, security, and maintenance in compliance with Canadian Bill 198 company security policy.  - Deploy software images via Microsoft Deployment Services 2010.  - Manage software and machine installations with System Center Configuration Manager 2012  - Gather machine information via Spiceworks    Accomplishments  - Reduced network upgrade process budget by $50,000 by installing and configuring our own data cabling and hardware.  - Reduced outside vendor cost budget by $30,000 by setting up a local deployment server for a standard software image.  - Cut personal machine budget by $500 per user by standardizing hardware equipment appropriate for user tasks, aided by the deployment server by installing software relevant to user placement in Active Directory Organization Unit.  - Implemented a custom internal website to facilitate easier navigation for end users to their necessary documents on our file server.  - Reduced file server backup time by 12 hours by streamlining data priority and upgrading hardware.  - Reduced VMware Vsphere downtime by implementing Vmotion on mirrored servers.  - Reduced Server budget by $20,000 per machine by appropriately speccing hardware or by building custom white servers.  - Increased energy efficiency of server room cooling by 37% by optimizing airflow dynamics of server racks.    Skills Used  - Active Directory Domain Management  - Group Policy Management  - Vmware Vsphere 5.1 and 5.5 along with Vmware Vmotion implementation  - IBM Series I AS400 implementation and management  - Cisco IOS 12 command line management and configuration  - Creating cables that comply with TIA or ISO standards for Category ethernet (6 and 6A)  - Windows 7 Professional configuration  - Vmware viewer vmdk creation for Windows 98 and other legacy operating systems for machine management  - IT management planning and prioritizing skills for corporate compliance IT Technician Central Michigan University - Mount Pleasant, MI September 2011 to May 2014 Responsibilities  Managed desktop computer systems, performed maintenance on computer systems, some custom computer-related tasks, wrote shell scripts, and provided end-support for clients. Most days I would monitor a queue system and respond to problems in a structured and documented fashion.     Accomplishments  Simplified a deployment process to be roughly 300% more efficient, as well as writing custom scripts to automatically do repetitive tasks.    Skills Used  Shell scripting, hardware repair, software configuration, time management, software deployment, mobile deployment. Manual Labor Americrown - Brooklyn, MI April 2010 to September 2013 Responsibilities  Manually moved food from a central kitchen to concessions stands to be sold to patrons.    Accomplishments  Most, if not, all deliveries were done ahead of schedule.    Skills Used  Food prep safety. Education BS in Information Technology Central Michigan University - Mount Pleasant, MI 2009 to 2014 Skills Angularjs, Angular, Java Links https://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=329876368 Certifications/Licenses Drivers License