System Engineer <span class="hl">System</span> Engineer System Engineer - PaySpan Inc Ponte Vedra, FL Accomplished systems engineer with over 15 years of experience managing server infrastructures.  Proven ability to deliver solutions to meet organizational goals and objectives.  Able to effectively plan and implement IT infrastructure to consistently achieve high availability and performance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Engineer PaySpan Inc March 2018 to Present • Part of an engineering team supporting an SOA PCI environment  • Installing, and configuring virtual machines as necessary with VMware  • Optimizing and tuning the VMware environment with Operations Manager  • Working with Avamar to maintain backups for several sources, and maintenance  • Manage Splunk for SNMP monitoring and as a SIEM interface for security management  • Utilize power shell to expand and automate the infrastructure as necessary.  • Design and plan Group Policy for use in a trust-relationship enterprise  • Ensure the consistency and manageability of new and existing applications with SOP's  • Use consulting skills to oversee projects for further stability and growth of the environment  • Manage technical projects that broaden and improve overall advancement of the business System Engineer Deutsche Bank May 2015 to March 2018 • Supported hundreds of applications used for ecommerce trading across world markets.  • Part of a system engineering team covering support for several production enterprises, patching and configuring virtual and physical machines.  • Responded, assisted, and mentored with troubleshooting for outages that occurred, with prompt resolution.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Java Virtual Machines in containers, for Tomcat, and Apache instances on Linux servers  • Worked with Nginx for further advancement of the Web services and middleware environment.  • Maintained operational support by monitoring and applying change requests to the enterprise.  • Collaborated in releases to enhance operations, from a Test, Development, and Production environment.  • Participated in Disaster Recovery exercises for an alternative form of operation if necessary.  • Assisted developers with configuration management for enterprise reliability Linux Administrator Dept. of Veteran Affairs June 2014 to May 2015 • Provided server system support and consultation for the SCI DO spinal system program  • Configuration management and change control of Virtual Red Hat Servers with Weblogic Server Farms.  • Used operational security procedures for hardening systems, and security issues as they arose using tools like Wireshark and dumpty  • Troubleshot challenging issues with server environments with recommendations for better performance.  • Provided support assistance for collaboration with other system engineers, DBA's, and other departments.  • Participated in deployments for further scalability and enhancement  • Created small shell scripts for daily tasks for further optimization Systems Engineer Mercury Payment Systems - Denver, CO February 2012 to February 2014 • Supported a PCI-compliant enterprise and a messaging middleware environment.  • Assisted in the building of a new, in-house, hardened, PCI, PKI, RSA, middleware environment.  • Utilized SQL, Web services, Postilion/ACI, and Nanete for client's credit card transactions.  • Provided Windows/Unix administration, LAN/WAN/VPN administration, VMware administration, intrusion detection and prevention monitoring, Exchange support, log management, and load balancer administration.  • Improved this dynamic environment by implementing and configuring changes to the environment. Utilized Windows Server Applications, Linux, Cisco, Firewall, and Tripwire for historical problematic occurrences in an effort to achieve a well-tuned enterprise.  • Performed monthly patching of both Windows and Linux servers via WSUS, SCCM, and Red Hat Satellite for overall security, along with Nessus scans.  • Assessed and researched new technologies as directed.  • Performed complex troubleshooting.  • Sought and participated in development opportunities above and beyond required training.  • Proactively sought opportunities to serve in leadership roles.  • Mentored those with less experience through informal channels.  • Increased knowledge through internal resources, supervisors, fellow employees, company trainings and trade publications.  • Maintained Security & Compliance policy and assisted with security policy to notify of potential issues.  • Ensured high service levels consistent with current and future business requirements.  • Detected anomalies by monitoring network traffic & identifying disturbances Systems Engineer Raytheon - Aurora, CO January 2010 to January 2012 • Responsible for maintenance, sustainability, monitoring and overall outlook of network and systems in the enterprise.  • Provided Windows/Linux administration and log management.  • Performed network administration through configuring, troubleshooting & supporting Cisco ASA firewall, routers & switches  • Accomplished in-depth IP packet analysis using TCP/IP protocols  • Managed Microsoft Exchange mailbox migrations across a domain trust relationship from 2003 to 2010, via PowerShell and Exchange System Manager.  • Administered Lotus Notes end users; supported as necessary.  • Led Systems Engineering Team for activities, changes and performance tuning of the server environment; optimizing network and system capability for overall up-time.  • Resolved issues as needed when reported by infrastructure monitoring, Tier 2 support, or the Help desk.  • Performed upgrades to various platforms as needed.  • Used V Sphere to build virtual machines according to guideline specifics (File, Print, Terminal Server, Domain Controller, or Web Servers).  • Monitored security devices & report suspicious security events to customer using IDS products (Tripwire) Education Computer Science Midwestern University - Wichita Falls, TX Computer Science Dallas Community College District - Dallas, TX Skills LINUX (10+ years), RED HAT (8 years), TRIPWIRE (4 years), EXCHANGE (4 years), CISCO (4 years), System Administrator, Active Directory, SCCM, DNS, Vmware Additional Information Technical Summary:  Windows Server 2008, Server 2012, 2016 Linux (all flavors), Active Directory(ADUC), Weblogic, Webmethods, Apache, Red Hat Satellite, F5 load balancer, SQL, SCCM, WSUS, Clustering, Amazon Webservices, Vsphere, SIEM/Tripwire, TrendMicro, RSA, Nimsoft, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft IIS, Symantec, PowerShell, Cisco Routers Switches and Firewalls, Group Policy, Whatsup Gold, Sitescope, App Dynamics, Jenkins, Splunk, Avamar, Appdynamics, UDeploy, Solaris, EMC/SAN, Postilion, Nessus, SQL, Cisco ASA Routers and Switches