IT Senior Administrator IT Senior <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Senior Administrator Houston, TX Visionary and results-driven leader, with over 10 years of proven success in delivering IT strategy, leading diverse teams, and driving operational growth. Unique ability to analyze complex problems while using a business-based approach to IT in order to define strategy and to create innovative cost-effective solutions for enhancing competitiveness, leading to increased revenue and productivity enabling organizations to achieve strategic technology and business objectives. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Senior Administrator ACCC Insurance Company - Houston, TX March 2018 to Present • Collaborated with senior corporate leadership, and created technology solutions that yielded over $350,000 in yearly savings including vendor contracts, data-center performance, and security initiatives.  • Lead and managed 8 infrastructure-centric projects to introduce stability, performance, new solutions, and enhancements within systems, workflows, and business processes, based on business leader’s needs.  • Managed the development and implementation of data-center disaster recovery plan utilizing Veeam reducing RTO from 72 hours to 1.  • Reduced data-center footprint by 75% and delivered a data-center 99.99% up-time.   • Planned and integrated System Center into environment to manage infrastructure patching, imaging, application deployment, and inventory of 1500+ items to reduce manual input by 99%.  • Automated common tasks for help desk staff saving 60 minutes per instance.  • Mentored 7 help desk team members and junior admins on current systems and efficient processes.  • Deployed cyber-security measures that reduce malicious activity by 100% Systems Administrator Xirtix Consulting LLC - Houston, TX July 2015 to March 2017 • Managed internal and 5 client-side network, VMware, Hyper-V virtual environments including storage provisioning, Active Directory, Exchange, server imaging/deployment and ESXi host maintenance.  • Managed 3 member help-desk team functions to ensure customer SLA was met above standards.  • Developed and deployed automated server patching, backup, and maintenance process for 250 servers.  • Strategically planned and successfully delivered 10 different major projects, including O365 migrations, VOIP systems, hardware refreshes, networking, and video surveillance after consulting client needs.  • Configure and maintained Dell EqualLogic storage infrastructure providing optimal availability, performance, and best practices.  • Wrote 15 Powershell scripts to automate daily tasks and reports resulting in decrease in manual work.  • Created and managed On-Boarding process for 5 new clients resulting in minimal transition time.  • Oversaw the relationship between 30 vendors and clients, including procurement, licensing, and support.  • Created 20 new business process workflows to further optimize client relationship and productivity. Systems Administrator Harris County Sheriff's Office - Houston, TX November 2012 to July 2015 * Performed technical deployment and maintenance for a $15MM state-funded Electronic Medical Records (EMR) project at a county jail with 120k yearly inmates as part of a six-member team on behalf of the third-largest sheriff's office in the US.  * Managed Active Directory environment for 4k county sheriff office employees.  * Troubleshot, resolved, and documented fixes for 100 weekly support tickets utilizing the Helpstar ticketing system.  * Performed major server upgrades and hardware replacements for pharmacy upgrades, which included upgrading servers from Windows 2003 to 2012 and adding 4 servers for the Houston Health Connect project.  * Implemented the Houston Health Connect and Radiology system and database servers that enabled the sharing of X-rays with other Houston hospitals. PC Support, Team Lead Reynolds & Reynolds - College Station, TX July 2009 to June 2012 • Led an eight-member team resolving 200 weekly PC and hardware support tickets for 3k internal staff and national car dealership clients for the largest automotive hardware and software solutions company in the US.  • Designed and delivered a targeted IT support training program to 50 staff in a department with historically high turnover, and reduced the department turnover rate 20%.  • Increased PCs repaired per week by 50 through developing new training and improving documentation. Education Bachelor of Arts in English Texas A&M University - College Station, TX December 2009 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), System Admin (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years), Vmware (8 years), SCCM (5 years), Windows Server (10+ years), Servers (10+ years), Office 365 (5 years), Cost Reduction (6 years), Management (10+ years), Powershell (10+ years), Veeam (6 years), Exchange Server (6 years), Project Management (10+ years), Process Improvement (10+ years), Security (5 years), Cyber Security (5 years), IT Management (6 years), IT Strategy (6 years), Azure (4 years), SAN (5 years), Business Analysis (5 years), SQL (2 years), Budgeting (7 years), Network Administration, Strategic Planning, Itil, Citrix, Excel, Exchange, Vendor Management, Disaster Recovery, Customer Service, VoIP, Cisco Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/rory-callahan-4b889735/ Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) April 2016 to Present Server 2012 VCP5-DCV July 2015 to Present VMware Datacenter Virtualization Appalachian Trail Thru-Hiker April 2017 to September 2017 Additional Information Administration Software: Windows Server 2016, VMware, Hyper-V, Active Directory, System Center (SCCM\VMM), Exchange, Citrix, Veeam, 3PAR, Azure, Office 365, Powershell