Senior Application Systems Analyst Senior Application <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst Fairmont, WV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Application Systems Analyst OPEN SYSTEM TECHNOLOGIES - Clarksburg, WV July 2018 to Present After a couple of months, I was promoted to a senior position as a application systems analyst. The position wasn't available, so the company I was contracted for made the position available for me. That is what my hard work and dedication has helped me to achieve. I have been scripting numerous tasks to make monotonous day to day activities a click of a button. I have a lot of experience with Gitlab and CI/CD pipeline as well as Red Hat Open Stack Platform. Learning new technologies and growing as a technician with others is all I want in this job and the next. Application Systems Analyst Open Systems Technologies, Inc. - Clarksburg, WV January 2018 to Present System Application Analyst at the FBI center in Clarksburg WV. I work in a Devops environment that has its own take on the Agile methodology. I troubleshoot problems as well as upgrade the current networking environment. Working with Linux, UCS, vSphere, Scripting with Powershell, and learning how to be a more efficient administrator are nothing short of what my day to day tasks entail. Working smarter not harder. Network Administrator United States Army, Active Duty & Army Reserves January 2014 to January 2018 Working with VMware, Netapp, SQL, SCCM, ACS, UCS, ARS, Active directory, VOSIPS, switches, routers. I have helped cleared thousands of vulnerabilities from ACAS scans and I have held a Top Secret SCI since I started and will have it when I get out. I am Security+ certified and have won Airmen of the Month and Quarter awards for my determination and perseverance. Education Diploma Completion High School Skills Vmware (5 years), Servers (2 years), Netapp (2 years), Routers (4 years), Active Directory (4 years), System Analyst, Production Support, Application Support, Linux (3 years), Powershell (4 years), Red Hat, Linux Administrator, System Admin Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: SrA January 2014 to January 2018 Cyber Transport Networks Administrator. Worked with netapp UCS ARS ADUC VMware 7ks. Have had hands on training as well as made the training documents for turnover. Additional Information Have an Active Top Secret Clearance and will have it when I leave active duty and become a civilian. I have helped with IA during my military career. And while I am deployed I have cleared vulnerabilities that our ACAS scans have revealed. I am still broad on my knowledge, but I have had hands on experience to say the least. We are constantly having to scan and check for vulnerabilities for software and getting them patched as soon as possible. It is a never ending battle, but it is definitely needed. I am Security+ certified as well and I apologize about my resume. This is just one of the skills that I am familiar with. I am very efficient at SCCM and the process of patching said servers. I am very comfortable with Netapp and VMware because I have helped set up different enclaves for the bases I have been to and have maintained and upgraded these while I have been in. I am looking for a great follow on from the career in the air force and I thought that this job would be a good fit. I am determined to use what I know on the outside and not let my top secret clearance go to waste. At the end of the day though, I am willing to go through the training specifically for your workstation if need be. Motivation and determination drives what I do and I know that there are a lot of ways to solve things using google or other resources. These are the resources that I will not hesitate to use to complete the job.