Cloud Solutions Engineer Cloud Solutions Engineer Cloud Solutions Engineer Fremont, CA 5+ of experience in Technology with experience in systems engineering on premises and cloud. Skilled in constructing solutions to achieve program compatibility and conduct system upgrades and installations. Knowledgeable in managing distributed systems, including operating systems, servers. Seeking to leverage broad IT experience to take the next career step with a respected organization that values critical thinking and development. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Cloud Solutions Engineer Change HealthCare - Emeryville, CA January 2017 to July 2019 • Provisioning the infrastructure needed to maintain multiple Dev/Test environments in Azure and On-premises.  • Created 3 node Confluent Kafka cluster in pre-prod and production environments as part of migration in Azure  • Create new topics in Kafka Cluster in pre-prod and production environments.  • Automated deploying Windows and Linux hosts in Azure using Ansible.  • Expertise in Ansible Playbook, Yaml for Maintaining Roles, Inventory Files and Groups Variables  • Good experience using Atlassian Toolset that includes Bitbucket, JIRA, Confluence and Bamboo.  • Created a CI/CD for building Docker images and pushing to private repositories.  • Creation and scheduling of Cron Jobs such as for Backup, System Monitoring and removal of unnecessary files.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Re-indexed Elastic search shard size from 450GB shard to 40GB per shard  • Converted Disk software laid to LVM for Elastic search nodes for adding disks faster.  • Deploy Cloverleaf systems from pre-defined template based on Dev requirements in Virtual environment.  • Assist Cloverleaf team/ project in adding new customer IP and testing.  • Responsible for systems security efforts by providing appropriate access to and protecting the confidentiality and integration of customer and business information in compliance with enterprise policies and standards  • Met information security requirements by hardening information systems using DISA STIG's and vulnerability scanning tools.  • Execute tasks as directed by the enterprise vulnerability management.  • Performed vulnerability scanning on Windows and Linux hosts using Nessus Scanner.  • Experienced with automating server builds and administrative tasks using Ansible.  • IaaS - Managing Active Directory, DNS, Group Policy Object in cloud and on-premises.  • Managing Recovery Service Vaults (backup) in Azure.  • Vulnerability scanning using Security Center in Microsoft Azure to remediate security vulnerabilities.  • Providing Tier III/other support per request from various constituencies, Investigate and troubleshoot OS & Hardware issues.  • Create, change, and delete user/group permission in Active Directory.  • Applying OS patches and upgrades on a monthly maintenance schedule and upgrade administrative tools and utilities.  • Update Iptables as per new requirements from the customers and test the connectivity.  • Configuring CPU, Memory and disk partitions in VMware and in Azure.  • Helping Scrum master across the company to customize JIRA for their requirements.  • Work closely with stakeholders to successfully complete IT infrastructure projects  • Create team specific Agile process flow in JIRA to move tasks from one activity to another  • Create team specific Agile process flow in JIRA to move tasks from one activity to another.  • Experienced in providing access to Jira users using QAS tool which integrates to Active Directory.  • Used Jira to create custom Dashboards for specific projects to track the work in Agile methodology. Systems Engineer VendorPass - Emeryville, CA June 2015 to January 2017 • DOD Project (Department of Defense).  • Implemented Active Directory, DNS, GPO (more than 500 Stigs NIST 800-53), WSUS, SCCM, SCOM in DOD environment.  • Build, configure, patch, upgrade and troubleshooting of physical and virtual Windows/ Linux servers (rack mounts/blades, and VMs).  • Perform operating system software updates, and patching on monthly schedule.  • Experienced in Active Directory with adding user accounts, roles, groups, permissions and group policies.  • Experienced with EMC Networker in Backup and Recovery using Data Domain.  • Managed Firewall changes in windows using GPO and in Linux using Puppet.  • Vulnerability remediation of Windows & Linux servers.  • Experienced in Remediating zero-day vulnerabilities (Wannacry (Windows) and Sambacry (Linux)).  • Protected vulnerable systems and network following detailed risk assessments, tested and implemented recommendations.  • Executed security hardening procedures of all servers and ensured compliance of STIG.  • Evaluate information systems for compliance with STIG and review measures needed to bring systems into compliance.  • Identified security access misconfiguration and recommended remediation process.  • Experienced in change and Incident management.  • Run Security programs such as Vulnerability management program, incident handling, and identity and access management.  • Approval authority on behalf information security for change control review board.  • Decommission windows and Linux servers  • Managed installation, upgrade and deployment projects and provided on-site direction for network engineers. Systems Administrator Indotronix International Corporation March 2013 to December 2014 India Education Master of Science in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Northwestern Polytechnic University - Fremont, CA April 2015 Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering Sree Vidyanikethan Engineering College 2013 Skills Security, Scom, Nist, Jenkins Additional Information Skills  • SCCM  • Ansible  • Azure Security Center  • NIST 800-53  • OS Hardening    • SCOM  • Jenkins