Customer Support Engineer Tier 1 Customer Support Engineer Tier 1 Customer Support Engineer Tier 1 - Commvault Neptune, NJ Work Experience Customer Support Engineer Tier 1 Commvault - Tinton Falls, NJ 2017 to Present Troubleshoot and resolve complex challenges for various customers and their respective environments. Effectively articulate root cause analysis, review and decipher logs, and provide detailed documentation. Exceed SLAs to bring the department to the top contributing department company-wide.    Key Contributions:  ? Increased department's metrics in efficiency and time to close  ? Immediate impact in becoming one of the top engineers company-wide in acquiring and resolving tickets  ? Key contributor in ensuring that department SLAs are exceeded through individual performance  ? Received 100% customer satisfaction surveys  ? Guided team members in efficiency and productivity Systems Administrator Compassion-First Pet Hospitals - Tinton Falls, NJ 2012 to 2017 Provided guidance and mentored junior staff members consisting of five computer technicians for all day-to-day operations. Configured and maintained 70+ virtual servers/5+ physical servers, ensuring 99.9% uptime and optimal performance. Evaluate, monitor and enhance IT infrastructure with an emphasis on availability, reliability, scalability, security, data confidentiality and system integrity.    Key Contributions:  ? Reengineered company's systems setup, optimizing system performance, installing patches/upgrades, establishing system monitoring and maintaining security protocols.  ? Ensured that all server hardware, operating systems, software and procedures aligned with organizational standards and strategic business plan.  ? Installed, configured and implemented new corporate anti-virus on multiple domains.  ? Built, configured, and installed new infrastructure and domain from top to bottom that includes configuration of network switches, corporate emails, DNS, DHCP, firewall, router, printers, workstations, print servers, file servers, etc.  ? Installed, configured, and implemented new corporate ticketing system.  ? Configured and implemented new spam filtering email software corporate wide.  ? Revamped Symantec Backup Exec workflow to improve performance and consistency.  ? Acted as escalation point for troubleshooting advanced network/ systems issues; consistently earned 100% issue-resolution scores by providing excellent service to internal and external customers.  ? Acted as project manager and primary point on the implementation of a new corporate VOIP system.  ? Assisted in migrating entire corporate network to a data center.  ? Maintained and updated network switch configurations to improve traffic workflow.  ? Configured and implemented new Cisco Wi-Fi ecosystem to several sites.  ? Administered Windows Updates Server and deployed pertinent Windows updates to Corporate environment after proper testing and due diligence.  ? Managed and regulated new and current firewalls enterprise wide that includes but not limited to NAT polices, routes, SSL VPN, VPN tunnels, IP helper, DHCP, DNS. Education B.S. in Computer Information Technology Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH June 2012 Skills Cisco, Dhcp, Lan/wan, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Vpn, Dns, Exchange, Network administration, Server administration, Business continuity, Disaster recovery, Intranet, Security, Voip, Wireless, Symantec, R2, System security Additional Information Expertise    ? Systems and Network Administration  ? System Security, Backup and Recovery  ? Server Administration and Support  ? Exchange 2016, 2010 on premise  ? Cisco Wireless Controller/WAPS  ? Technical Infrastructure (LAN/WAN/VPN)  ? Workstation Installation/Configuration  ? Training and Mentoring  ? Project Management  ? Office 365 Enterprise    Technology Summary    ? Microsoft Server 2016 Datacenter, 2012 R2 Standard, 2008 R2 Enterprise, 2003  ? VMware vSphere 5.5, 6.0  ? Symantec Enterprise Endpoint Antivirus  ? Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Business  ? Cisco VOIP - CUCM  ? Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery  ? SpamTitan  ? TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP  ? SonicWALL  ? Configuration of switches and routers; Dell, Cisco, HP  ? Intranet Connections  ? Exchange 2016, 2010  ? Commvault Backup Solution