IT Support Specialist IT Support Specialist IT Support Specialist - TechnipFMC(Contract) Missouri City, TX I am seeking a position within the IT department as a Systems Administrator and/or Systems Support to find employment with a company where my skills and experience will be an asset to the business while furthering my knowledge and abilities in the process. I am quick to learn and adapt to new technologies. Work Experience IT Support Specialist TechnipFMC(Contract) - Houston, TX March 2019 to Present • Highly motivated systems administrator maintaining hands-on experience in all Windows environment.  • Execute service requests by phone, emails and self service  • Troubleshoot and resolve issues over the phone and using remote support tool  • Escalate questions, issues and incident due to defined procedures.  • Document, track and monitor incidents to ensure timely resolution  • Troubleshoot hardware and software issues  • Install, Move, Add, Change Hardware and Software  • Reads material, attends meetings and classes to keep current with training and technology in focus area.  • Maintain IT related customer support procedures to provide timely and efficient customer support.  • Maintain and support users at our locations in Houston. Also helped with our remote offices located throughout the World. \  • Windows 10 Refresh and Service desk support  • Windows 7 and Windows/MAC support and knowledge  • Office 2010/2013/2016 at an advanced level  • Install computer software (engineering software); imaging desktop/laptops; software applications  • Build, deploy, maintain and upgrade PCs, laptops, printers, manage licenses and deploy applications and IP phones.  • Provide hardware, printers, and network support.  • Support internal and remote customer network users, monitor and manage alarms.    • Ticketing system  • ServiceNow  • Log all tickets and troubleshooting issues and assist users    • iPhone + Android mobile phones including app installs, configs, and OS on both.    • Active Directory and Quest One Support    • Image Desktop systems using Ghost Product, System Center, or other imaging technologies.    • Cisco IP Phones and Jabber Support.    • Maintain inventories for all electronic equipment, toner, and other technology supplies IT Support Specialist WorleyParsons(Contract) - Houston, TX February 2018 to August 2018 • Highly motivated systems administrator maintaining hands-on experience in all Windows environment.  • Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2016 (All editions)  • Maintain Cisco IP Phone System  • Cloud based applications  • Maintain Active Directory, group policy & SAN    • Maintain and support users at our locations in Houston. Also helped with our remote offices located throughout the US.  • Windows 7 and Windows/MAC 10 support and knowledge  • Office 2010/2013/2016 at an advanced level  • Install computer software (engineering software); imaging desktop/laptops; software applications  • Build, deploy, maintain and upgrade PCs, laptops, printers, manage licenses and deploy applications and IP phones.  • Provide hardware, printers, and network support.  • Support internal and remote customer network users, monitor and manage alarms.    • Ticketing system  • Remote software used to install on all devices to remote in  • Log all troubleshooting issues and assist users    • iPhone + Android mobile phones including app installs, configs, and OS on both.    • Support and maintain Office 2010/2013/2016 products    • Image Desktop systems using Ghost Product, System Center, or other imaging technologies.    • Participate in enterprise-wide IT support, projects, and initiatives.    • Maintain inventories for all electronic equipment, toner, and other technology supplies Systems Administrator/Desktop Support Dunavant Enterprises - La Porte, TX August 2014 to January 2018 • Maintain and support users at our Dallas, Houston, Pasadena, and Fort Worth offices. Also helped with our remote offices located throughout the US at our 8 Remote offices.  • Manager of desktop technicians  • Weekly meetings and reports of daily work & projects  • Supervise, troubleshoot, and install computers, printers, and network devices.    • Highly motivated systems administrator maintaining hands-on experience in all Windows environment.  • Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012 (All editions)  • Maintain Avaya Phone System  • Dell Sonic Wall firewall/VPN  • Cloud based applications    • Ticketing system (Goto assist)  • Remote software used to install on all devices to remote in    • Inventory and labeling of all computer equipment and recorded in SharePoint.    • Help with the Office 365 Implementation - 250+ mailboxes    • Monitor, install, and maintain Hyper-V & vSphere 5 Environment.  • ESXi, Veeam, vCenter    • Maintain Active directory, group policy & SAN.    • Installed MobiControl on all Tablets  • Install packages, maintain updates, and add emails  • Troubleshoot any issues with tablets    • Maintained and troubleshoot our Security Cameras and badge readers.  • Maintained 75 Cameras throughout all locations.  • Created badges and provided security to users as needed.    • Maintained our Verizon account.  • 250 Tablets, 75 Cell phones, 20 MiFi devices  • Inventory of all equipment, cost centers for departments  • Met with Verizon vendor monthly to help maintain costs, updates, and keep up with new promotions  • Was able to save $2,500 every month from their currently monthly bill Jr. Systems Administrator/Desktop Support Medical Research Consultants - Houston, TX May 2013 to July 2014 • VMware Admin (vSphere 4) Install, Maintained, & Troubleshoot. Installed new hosts, and servers, Maintained Clusters and used vMotion. Added storage to servers, Created Templates, Host Profiles.    • Highly motivated systems administrator offering hands-on experience in all Windows environment; Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2010 (x86 edition and r2 editions)    • Administration and troubleshooting of Microsoft Exchange 2010. Active Directory, DNS & Microsoft Exchange replication. Basic Scripting via PowerShell.    • Supporting a multi-farm XenApp Citrix infrastructure (XenApp 6.5) Containing 30 servers, (VM infrastructure) and approximately 30 applications with 300 users onsite and 150 users offsite. Maintained, & Troubleshoot. Install Hotfixes, Created users and gave them access to certain XenApp applications, Published new applications.    • Citrix support to address the ticket queue. Maintain users Citrix profiles and home drives. Evaluating emerging technology such as XenClient, XenDesktop for greater scalability and improve end user experience.    • Manage Sales force users and contacts for roughly 500 users. Assist in training of new users, and grow the Sales force skillset across the company. Create reports per request of Marketing, Finance, IT, and sales. Jr. Systems Administrator/Desktop Support Harris County Hospital District - Houston, TX July 2009 to April 2013 • Highly motivated systems administrator offering hands-on experience in all Windows environment; Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2012 (All editions)    • Monitor Servers performance; hard-drives, memory, CPU usage, security logs, free space, troubleshooting, etc.    • VMware Admin (vSphere 4.1) Install, Maintained, & Troubleshoot. Installed new hosts, and servers, Maintained Clusters and used vMotion. Added storage to servers, Created Templates, Host Profiles, and Veeam for backup.    • Citrix Admin (XenApp 6.5) Install, Maintained, & Troubleshoot. Install Hotfixes, created users and gave them access to certain XenApp applications, Published new applications.    • Update/Patch Servers, Upgrade firmware and bios on HP blade servers, Replace Bad Hard drives & memory.    • Maintain file permissions on file server; Granted/Denied Access to certain users, Maintain Group Policy, Created Home drives for users.    • Managed Compellent SAN. 60TB of Storage. Maintained, install, & troubleshoot.    • Installed and maintained Double-Take software for DR site located in Austin. Education Diploma Portage High School - Portage, IN 1998 to 2002