Tire Technician Tire Technician Systems Administrator Memphis, TN Work Experience Tire Technician Sam's Club - Pensacola, FL September 2018 to Present Inspects customer tires for signs of wear and areas for potential failure.    Makes tire repairs if tire did not need replacement, to include patches to repair cracks or holes in the tire’s tread but also replacing valve tubes, if the rest of the tire is structurally sound.    Rotates tires to ensure that they are wearing evenly. Also performs repairs to balance tires to ensure steady performance.    Examines tires and determines that tires present a risk to the customer or vehicle, locating replacement tires and attaches to the vehicle after consulting with the customer. After installation, checks the tire’s seals and balances the new tires. Systems Administrator United States Navy - Norfolk, VA May 2012 to May 2018 A reliable and experienced Information systems professional with over 7 years experience in customer support, system administration, network configuration and troubleshooting in the military as well as commercial markets. Specific skills include advanced networking, server system administration, electronic mail and mail exchange server configuration and administration, active directory support, customer facing and remote customer support.    Manages, configures and maintains networks, servers and services providing customer support with the desktop as well as enterprise level. Specific skills include:    Microsoft Exchange,  Microsoft SQL Server  Windows Server Operating Systems.  Windows 10  Windows 7  Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, Skype for Business)  Linux/Unix  Cisco networking architecture  VMWare     Performs scheduled and unscheduled maintenance following all established procedures and protocols and documentation on system hardware and server operating systems using VMWare to access virtual machines and datastores.    Managed tier-3 support and problem escalation to vendor engineering support and provide subject matter expertise support to other major components internationally.    Conducted fault isolation and disaster recovery procedures on system hardware and software utilizing  all resources available and technical documentation from vendors and Naval engineers.    Integrated hosted and connected systems utilizing approved IT system and programs of record provided configuration and failure documentation.    Briefed leadership on system status, recommend courses of action, and provide detailed written after action reports and statuses.    Provided system level readiness reports to all levels of leadership.    Endorsed SOVTs for new and upgraded hardware/software installations.    Verified and installed FAMs and STIGs in accordance with approve company security policy and standards reported any discrepancies noted during installation.    Prepared and submitted extended network boundary changes requested by customers or technical leadership and IP service shifts to company network operations centers.    Created standard operating procedures for local team and developed training plans for junior administrators.    Supervised 15 help-desk technicians in the administration of 6 enclaves, 114 virtual machines, 42  Cisco devices, 2,000 workstations, and 300 printers.    Configured access control lists within edge network border routers and firewalls for 6 different network enclaves.    Directly responsible for management of over 5,000 user accounts through Active Directory.    Supervised completion of trouble tickets daily through Sharepoint. Education None in CCNA2 Windows Server 2008 Exchange 2010 Linux Security+ Navy Advanced Information Systems Technician School None in A+ CCNA Windows XP Windows 7 Navy Apprentice Information Systems Technician School Skills Customer Service (6 years), customer support (6 years), security (6 years), SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (6 years) Certifications/Licenses Security+ December 2018 to December 2021 Additional Information Core Competencies  ? Domain Management ? System Administration ? Customer Service  ? Network Security ? Help Desk / Customer Support ? Data Integrity