Windows AD Administrator Windows AD <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Windows AD Administrator - Comerica Bank • Over Eight plus years of experience in IT industry with professional experience on MicrosoftWindows Systems, and VMware Administration.  • Expertise Installation, Configuration & Troubleshooting VMware ESX 3.5/4.0/4.1/5.0/6.0, vSphere 4.0/5.0, Virtual Center 2.5 Servers.  • 5+ Years of Experience in Windows Server Patching using IVANTI (Shavlik), IBM BigFix and SCCM.  • Experience in providing Production support on 24/7 for Windows 2003/2008R2/2012R2/2016 Servers.  • Experience in updating Servers with latest Service Packs, Security Patches, Antivirus definitions and software distribution using (SCCM) and Windows Server update services (WSUS)  • Experience on Patch Management on Windows Servers andalso on upgrading the existing Windows Servers with latest Service Packs, Security Patches.  • Knowledge of Single Sign-On Federation products using Microsoft ADFS.  • Implemented ADFS for password synchronization with Azure AD for Office 365.  • Supporting Active Directory, build Domain Controllers, creating sites &GPO's and AD database backups.  • Expertise in Systems Administration of Microsoft Windows Servers 2003/2008R2/2016/2019 and accomplished in the usage of tools in the TCP/IP Protocol suite with DNS, DHCP, WINS, FTP, Telnet, NAT.  • Provided Level-3 Production Support in rotating Shift for around 2200+ remote users and 3200+ Servers on Microsoft, VMware, and Hosted on Multisite Large Data Center Environments. Designing, Configuration, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance of Secure VPN Connection, Firewall Rules, Virtual Desktop Design, Access Control, NTFS Permission, Capacity Planning, Load Balancing and Performance Tuning.  • Excellent work experience on Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) by creating and defining the object classes and attributes that relates to users, computers, printers and services in addition to the extension of the object interface by managing permissions, group policies and delegations.  • Work experience on Active Directory and DNS Migrations, involved in AD and DHCP backup and restoring the deleted OU's.  • Over 2 years of professional experience in installing, configuring, and maintaining EMC Avamar 6.0, 6.1, 7.0  • Building, Configuring, and Supporting of New Datacenters, Designing and Implementing Clustering with HA & DRS, & Resource Pools for high availability.  • Configuring and troubleshooting the ESX/ESXi to setup iSCSI, NFS, and Fiber Channel Storage.  • Hands on experience in Implementation, Migration, and Administration of EMC AVAMAR grid on a small to enterprise scale.  • Experience with VMware lab manager for Installing and Maintaining Operating Systems, adding and updating applications and resolving problems.  • Worked on Recover Point with array-basedsplitters in VNX environment in both CDP/CRRmodes.  • Experience in managing Symantec NetBackup Administrative Console.  • Extensive experience in Server builds ensured to follow the audit standards of the company and followed the Information Security Management System for maintaining security standards in the environment.  • Installation of Intel and/or AMD based HP, Dell, IBM standalone and blade servers, and knowledge on the hardware.  • Monitoring of servers through MOM or SCOM tool, BMC Patrol and maintaining the health checks. Configuring the SNMP agent for the servers to receive the alerts through NMS system and resolve accordingly.  • Creation of MSI packages, images using MDT toolkit and deploying the OS (Windows Vista/7) and applications.  • Experience in Windows 2000/2003/2008Active Directory Installation, Managing, Administering and Troubleshooting. Design and deployment of enterprise-wide Group Policies using Active Directory components, Creation of users, groups and assigning necessary hardware and software.  • Experience in Installing, Configuring and Administering of Antivirus servers (McAfee, Symantec, and Trend Micro) and clients.Analyzing and executing the reports and taking the corrective measures using ePO management console.  • Experience in upgrading the AD environment from 2000 to 2003 and 2003 to 2008.  • Experienced in design and setup of corporate Internet and Intranet web sites using Microsoft Internet Information Server (IIS) and sub-components.  • Experience in managing web application servers, intranet website and website security management.  • Experience in Creating Backup policies and scheduling backup Jobs using VERITAS Backup, NT Backup, Arc Serve Backup and Net Backup Execand Auto loader tape drive.  • Installation, Configuration and Troubleshooting of hardware including Servers and Workstations.  • Installation and configuration of servers, workstations, disk drives, NIC, memory, HBA.  • Expertise in configuring RAID technologies.    • Used tools HP SIM, Solar Winds for monitoring and troubleshooting server hardware.  • Expertise in Password Recovery of Telnet, Console, Auxiliary, Enable Secret Passwords. Work Experience Windows AD Administrator Comerica Bank - Auburn Hills, MI January 2019 to Present • Performed cross platform audits of Active Directory (AD) objects and user permissions.  • Responsible for supporting complete AD Infrastructure of multiple forests in Jabil Inc.  • Creating new domain and OU polices per customer business requirement  • Migration of AD objects, File servers and Cluster servers from one forest to target forest  • Supporting Active Directory, build Domain Controllers, creating sites&GPO's and AD database backups.  • Creating of trust between the forests.  • Reviewed Technical Solution Design (TSD) document for Active Directory migration  • DC and GC health monitoring and FSMO monitoring  • Performing administration/support with LDAP/Authentication from vendors Novell and Oracle  • Implemented ADFS for password synchronization with Azure AD for Office 365.  • Troubleshooting ADFS issue, AD tools (APT, ADTest)  • Experience with AD accounts synchronization to Office 365 and troubleshooting issues with ADFS accounts, AD Connect.  • Resolving AD Replication issues. Installing and configuring ADConnect.  • Providing security via GPO and Solid Core configuration on Domain Controller.  • AD administration, configuration, Monitor and operate Trust relationships with external domains.  • Creating of trust between the forests or remove Trust relationships and changing policies  • Worked on DCDIAG tool to verify AD components for checking FSMO, DNS registration, AD replication errors, Trust Verification and file replication services.  • Managed User Accounts on WindowsNT and UNIX Platform (Creation, Deletion, Permissions, and VPN Access)  • Developed organizational units in Active Directory (AD) and managed user security with group policies.  • Administered DNS, DHCP and WINS.  • Configured Group Policy Objects to create a secure Windows Infrastructure.  • Provided third level help desk support for problems relating to Active Directory.  • Created user ID's, roles, groups OU's etc.  • Performed Weekly Patching for 1000+ Windows Servers using IBM BigFix and SCCM.  • Performed File share migration to SPOIFS (SharePoint Online) using SPMT tool, Robocopy and Power shell Script. Sr. Windows & VMware Systems Administrator DTE Energy - Detroit, MI April 2016 to December 2018 Responsibilities  • Worked on Installing and Configuring MS Windows 2012 R2 / 2016 Hyper-V Servers.  • Accountable for all the Windows 2008 and 2012 R2 Servers in the Data Center.  • 24/7 Production Support for all the windows Servers.  • Performed Weekly Patching for 1000+ Servers using Shavlik.  • Installation and Administration of Windows 2012R2/2008/2003 Servers.  • Monitored BACKUPJobs, executed restore jobs, and restarted failed jobs.  • Deployed SNOW Agents on all the Windows Servers using Powers hell Script  • Assisted in troubleshooting and root-cause analysis of BACKUP solutions currently installed with the client infrastructure.  • Involved in Administration of DNS, DHCP WINS in Active Directory Environment.  • Extensive hands onConfiguring and MaintainingVMware ESX 5.0 Servers.  • Building VMware session on ESXi5.0 Server, Cloning, and Creating Templates.  • Build and MaintainedVMwareESX&ESXi Servers.  • Upgraded Memory, CPU and Disk size on the existing VMware Sessions on ESX Servers.  • Created Load Evaluators to apply on servers to maintain the performance of the servers.  • Maintained Software deployment to ensure proper patching on client systems.  • Maintained the Domain environment, including setting up the policies as per the security settings.  • Coordinated with Application, Network and Security Teams and Vendor Management.  • Responsible for setting up Windows 2012R2/2008/2003 Servers.  • Installed and configured Microsoft Windows 2008, 2003Active Directory.  • Performed multiple Windows Operating System Installs and upgrades.  • Created, tested and deployed virtual environments using Virtualization Technologies - VMware Workstation and ESX Server 5.0 and 4.1.  • Created and documented process for deploying Virtual machines on VMware.  • Performed VMwareMotion and Storage vMotion migrationsof servers using P2V and V2V.  • Created VM Machines for Test Environments to Test Applications.  • Remote OS Installation, RAID Management, Windows Clustering and Remote Server Administration.  • Configured iLO (Integrated Lights-Out) on remote domain controllers to monitor and troubleshoot 24/7 access from a standard web browser.  • Monitored backup jobs, executed restore jobs, and restarted failed jobs.  • Provide assistance in troubleshooting and analysis of client installed backup solutions. Sr. Windows & VMware Systems Administrator MS SQL - Plano, TX May 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved System Administration Level III support for Windows 2003/2008/2012 Servers.  • Installation, configuration&maintenance of Windows2000, Windows 2003& Windows 2008 Servers with Active directory Infrastructure, DNS, DHCP.  • Experience working on VNX file including configuring CIFS Servers and Migration of shares using Robocopy.  • Performed system analysis, monitoring and performance tuning for Windows 2000/2003/2008 Servers.  • VMware ESX 4.0& 5.0 Host Server Installation, Configuration &Maintenance, VSphere Suite with P2P and P2V, Virtual Machines Installation, Configuration & Maintenance.  • Monitoring the operating system, database & network by using themonitoring tools.  • Installed ESX and ESXi servers on HP, DELL and IBM hardware.  • Configured HA, DRS clusters and capacity planning for new clusters, configuring FT for important VM's.  • Created resource pools and also added VM's into the pools.  • Performed Microsoft File and Print services management tasks.  • Worked on ESX and VM storage issues and also coordinated with the storage admin team.  • Performed P2V Hot conversions using converter enterprise 4, 5 and alsothe P2V cold conversion using VMware Converter Boot CD.  • Worked on Disaster Recovery Exercises for DR Plan for Production Servers.  • Analyzed and Implemented OS patches and hot fixes as well as other OS configurations and updates using Blade Logic Patch Management tool.  • Involved in creating vSwitches and created different ports groups for different purposes.  • Involved in troubleshooting the DNS, DHCP, IIS and Active directory.  • Maintained Web Servers by installing Microsoft IIS7.  • Active Directory and Operating System account management With NTFS permissions.  • Maintaining FTP Sites and creating Virtual Directories in IIS7.  • Created User Accounts and Groups in Active Directory.  • Updated and upgraded the ESX servers using vCenter update manager.  • Compaq/HP Blade Server hardware maintenance and HP Insight Manager.  • Involved in the migration of Virtual Machines and Virtual machines files using the VMotion and Storage VMotion.  • Up gradation of Windows server's service pack and security patch as per schedule.  • Provided technical support for Microsoft outlook 2007/2010.  • Configuration and Maintenance of Microsoft Windows cluster Servers.  • Developed technical notes and user guides for new software installations for end users.  • Used Remedy Tool for ticketing process on fixing Incident Reports and Change Requests.    Environment: Windows 2003/2008/2012 Windows 7, Microsoft DFS, Active Directory, DNS, WINS, DHCP, TCP/IP, NTFS, Dell Power Edge, IBM xSeries, HP/CompaqProLiant G3, G5 Blade Servers, IIS Servers, VERITAS Net backup, VMware ESX 4.0&5.0 Servers. Puppet Agent MS SQL 2012 to 2016 2016, 2014, 2012, MS Azure Public and Private Cloud Computing, IaaS, PaaS, SaaS, MS HyperV, HP Proliant DL, GL, Rack and Blade with iLO, HP MSA, Brocade Switches, Cisco Switches, Active Directory, GPO, FISMO Role, LDAP, SPN, WSUS, PowerShell, Batch, Puppet Agent, SCCM 2012, SCOM, SQL reporting Service, Failover Cluster, Disaster Recovery, Office 365, Skype for Business, Server Decommission, Altiris Deployment, Linux 6, 7, Salt Minion, VMware ESX/ESXi 5.x/6.X, Fusion 6.x, Symantec Endpoint Protection, EMC SAN, Dell Storage SC Series. Sr. Windows & VMware Systems Administrator MS SQL - Norcross, GA September 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • System Administration, Level 3 support for all Windows 2000, Windows 2003, Windows 2008 Servers &Microsoft Virtual Server 2005, Windows 2008 Hyper-v worldwide through ILO, RHILO, and DRAC.  • Involved in creating and managing separate VMware clusters for Development, QA and Production.  • Created User Accounts, Configured User Profiles, local and Global Groups and implemented Group Policies.  • Performed system monitoring and performance tuning for NT/2000/2003/2008 Servers.  • Active Directory Infrastructure and Operating System account management, Group security policies.  • Installation of Operating Systems Windows XP, Windows 2000, and Windows 2003.  • Monitored and managed the performance and the load balance of the Servers.  • Installed and updated the Windows Patches and Hot Fixes.  • VMware ESX 3.5&4.0 Host Servers, vSphere Suite, Virtual Machines Installation, Configuration and Maintenance.  • Monitoring the operating system, database, and network using MOM Monitoring via VNC, & VPN.  • Created User Accounts, groups and running scripts on Production Servers.  • Monitored and managed performance of ESX servers and Virtual Machines using Virtual Center Server for HA, DRS.  • Participated in Team meetings with Managers and submitted weekly Status reports with the current status, issues and reasons for delay in solving the Hardware and Software related issues.  • Maintained the File Servers, Application Servers and Print Servers.  • VERITAS Netback up for clients, Microsoft cluster and Remote Server maintenance for hardware failure.  • Configuration of Server operating systems, service pack upgradation and Security Patches.  • Used RDP to assign the local security policies on member servers and standalone servers.  • Worked on Ticket process in fixing the Incident tickets in Remedy Tool in 24x7 environments.  • Monitored and managed the performance and the load balancing of the Servers.    Environment: Windows 2008/2003/200, Active Directory, DNS, WINS, DHCP, TCP/IP, NTFS, Dell Power Edge, IBM xSeries, HP ProLiant G3, G5 Blade Servers, IIS Servers, VMware ESX 3.5 & 4.0 Servers. Sr. Windows & VMware Systems Administrator MS SQL - Dublin, OH April 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • System Administration Level 3 supports through ILO, RDC, VPN (Windows NT/2000/2003 Servers/Microsoft Virtual Servers) in Cluster environment.  • Involved in creating and Troubleshooting of Virtual Network, ESX & Virtual Machines.  • Performed system monitoring and performance tuning for NT/2000/2003 Servers.  • Created templates from VMs and also deployed VMs from templates.  • Monitored operating system, database & network by using Bigbro Monitoring Tool (Quest Software)  • Supported data migration with Virtual Machines and Virtual machines files using the VMotion and Storage VMotion.  • Up gradation of Windows servers service packs and security patches.  • Involved in managing the VMware solutions to support multiple storage connectivity options such as FC-SAN, iSCSI, NFS (NAS) and internal storage.  • Management of Print server environment.  • Involved in the Installation of Virtual Machines and also did the up gradation of VMware Tools.  • Active Directory Infrastructure and Operating System account management.  • SAN, NAS Configuration / Performance Monitoring.  • Remote Server maintenance for hardware failure.  • McAfee EPO Antivirus Server monitoring and weekly reports for all infected systems within network.  • Ensured minimum downtime and meeting the required Service level agreements.    Environment: Windows 2003/2000/NT, Active Directory, DNS, WINS, DHCP, TCP/IP, NTFS, MS Exchange 2003, and Microsoft Outlook, VMware ESX. Windows & VMware Systems Administrator Idearc Media Inc - Denver, CO November 2011 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Installed and Configured Microsoft Windows 2000/2003 Servers.  • Responsible for troubleshooting centralized and distributed Windows 2000 (Professional & Server) / NT (Server & workstation) / XP Professional, 2003 Small Business Server system & Exchange Server for providing system administration.  • Responsible for the design, implementation, operation, maintenance, backup, system security and system integrity of Microsoft Operating systems including MS Exchange 2000, including Active Directory.  • Local PC problems and support on classified and unclassified networks; and for providing technical expertise to organizations in the area of system upgrades, process improvements, security requirements, infrastructure improvements, system administration and troubleshooting ( system setup, account management, backup/restore, network printers, application installation and license management, peripheral installations, etc.),  • Manage single and/or multiple sites to carry out day-to-day maintenance and operations of Windows 2000/2003 Active directory, DNS, DHCP, WINS and MS Exchange 2003 with Outlook Web Access.  • Recommended and established operation requirements, policies and procedures.  • Maintained and monitored all systems within environment to ensure optimal performance.  • Responsible for the management and filtering of Spam mails including Firewall, Proxy, Mailing, antivirus deployment in multiple locations, Knowledge of switches and exposure to Information security policy implementation.    Environment: Windows 2003/2000, Active Directory, DNS, WINS, DHCP, TCP/IP, NTFS, MS Exchange 2003, and Microsoft Outlook. Windows System Administrator Vaibhav Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Installation, Administration of Microsoft Small Business Server Windows 2003, 2000 & Windows NT.  • Installation & Implementation of structured cabling and network management with branded Intel, Compaq ML 350, and IBMeServersXSeries 232.  • Configuration & Implementation of TCP/IP, FTP, DNS, DHCP, Windows NT 4.0 Server RAS connectivity through VSAT.  • Installation, Maintenance Management & Troubleshooting of Windows 95, 98, Windows XP Home & Professional, 2000 Professional, Windows NT 4.0Server, WorkStation & Windows 2000 Server, Windows small business server, Microsoft Exchange 2000 server.  • Management of Hardware & Networking Department.  • Installation, Maintenance Management and Troubleshooting of SBS 4.5 BackOffice Servers, and Proxy Servers.  • Internet Server (DP602), Installation, Management and Troubleshooting.  • Performed maintenance of Microsoft Servers 2000 and 2003 consisting of adding users, editing user login scripts and granting permission to directories and shared files.  • Documented the process for supported systems and applications.    Environment: Windows 2003/2000/NT, DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP, NTFS, and Microsoft Outlook. Education Bachelor's Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (9 years), VMWARE (9 years), DHCP (9 years), DNS (9 years), SECURITY (7 years) Additional Information OPERATING SYSTEMS: Windows Servers (NT/2000/2003/2008/2012 R2/2016/2019), Win 7, 8, 10, XP, Vista, RedHat Linux 5, 7, Novell NetWare 5. X.7.  MAIL SERVER: Microsoft Exchange Server 5.5, 2000 and 2003.  VMWARE PRODUCTS:  VMware vSphere 5.5/6.0, ESX 3.5/4.0/4.1/5.0 Server, Virtual Center Server 2.5, VIC, VMware Player, VMware Workstation 6.x, VMware Converter, VMware View (VDI), Site Recovery Manager (SRM), VMware Lab Manager.    PROTOCOLS: TCP/IP, POP3, SMTP, NetBEUI, DHCP, WINS, DNS, TFTP, SNMP, RAS, SNA.  DIRECTORY SERVICES: Active Directory Service, DNS, DHCP, GPO, CIFS, DFS, WINS.  HARDWARE:  Compaq/HP/DELL/IBM Servers, Dell PowerEdge Blade Servers, HP/Compaq ProLiant Servers, SCSI/RAID Controllers, SCSI/ LTO Tape Drives.    ANTIVIRUS SOFTWARE: Norton Anti-Virus Corporate Edition, SCCM.  SECURITY, APPS SERVER: ISA, IIS 5.0 /IIS 6.0, VMware, SQL, Oracle.  DATA BACKUP & SOFTWARE:  NAS, SAN, VERITAS Net Backup, Microsoft Backup., IBM Tivoli Storage Management, DPS, VERITAS Backup, Norton Ghost, VM Snapshot, Robocopy    MONITORING & TICKETING TOOLS: BMC Remedy, Lotus-Notes, Bigbro Monitoring Tool, HP SIM, Service Now, SolarWinds, Service Desk, SCOM