Technical Consultant III Technical Consultant III Technical Consultant III - Sparks Group/NCR Corporation Petersburg, VA Work Experience Technical Consultant III Sparks Group/NCR Corporation September 2018 to Present Sparks Supervisor: Jenna Antos (703) 466-5049  NCR Supervisor: Brandon Wilson (919) 323-5979    Working in a fast-paced environment, providing Technical Support to all of the 200+ Defense Commissaries World Wide and its' Customers alongside my team of Specialists, duties include, but not limited to:    ? Establishing and maintaining positive and friendly relationships with Customers, Management and my Peers  ? Prepare Daily and Monthly ticketing Reports to Management while providing status on critical issues  ? Deliver Customer Support via phone, remote and in-person  ? Record and route all Customer matters through Quickbase, Remedy, and JIRA ticketing systems along with Customer and Vendor Portal programs  ? Verify Active Directory Account information and add Users to requested Groups  ? Troubleshoot Hardware including Retail peripheral devices such as printers, scanners, scales, tablets, & POS systems and attend to Software needs  ? Use Soti MobiControl Application to remotely configure and monitor Hand Held Devices  ? Work with Senior Staff when necessary to solve or escalate issues  ? Use Order System to acquire hardware replacements for the Customer when needed  ? Work extensively with the Relex Application to create and monitor accounts and to ensure Store Product Layouts along any and all other Item discrepancies while troubleshooting and resolving any Application issues  ? Work widely with the DAX Application to create, modify, and monitor Store Orders, Inventory and User Accounts  ? Utilize the Power Picking Application to create, modify, and monitor Customer Orders and User Accounts  ? Verify and update product prices and availability through DIBS, Power HQ and AccessVia Databases  ? Create and grant User permissions to Power HQ  ? Register Commissary Shoppers for DeCA's Rewards Program  ? Host Webex meetings with Remote Teams when necessary  ? Utilize MS Team to consult with Remote Colleagues  ? Travel to Commissaries when necessary to provide on-site hardware and software support Enterprise System Administrator Summit Info Solutions Inc.\Alaka'ina Foundation - Fort Lee, VA July 2016 to August 2018 Summit Supervisor: Shuganti Caradonna (804) 840-8477  Alaka'ina Supervisor: Roger Lowry (804) 335-6585    Working a part of an IT Support Team under the 93rd Signal Brigade, providing Administrative Support to a host of Organizations, End Users, and Machines, responsibilities included, but not limited to:    ? Assume the responsibility for accessibility to prevent and defend the Army Enterprise  ? Oversaw the building, updating, and remediating vSphere ESXI 6.0 while working through vSphere Web Client  ? Manage and troubleshoot VMs through vSphere Client  ? Harden Operating Systems and Applications, including IIS, on Application and Web servers using DISA STIGs guidance and remediation tools  ? Install, configure, and upgrade Server hardware  ? Scap Scan Servers Quarterly and compile Stig Checklists and attend to Findings  ? Managed DHCP and SMTP Reservations and Servers  ? Work closely with IA to remediate ACAS Findings and troubleshoot HBSS and McAfee/HIPS issues  ? Work closely with Infrastructure to troubleshoot Firewall and Switch issues  ? Verified and made Firewall rules when needed  ? Manage both Print Servers and various printer issues  ? Primary Support for the TMS, Development, Public and Local Facing Web Servers  ? Image Servers and install Microsoft and vendor patches  ? Perform configuration management in accordance with government policies and procedures  ? Apply logical techniques to identify and troubleshoot problems to deliver solutions in a timely manner  ? Maintain Active Directory by creating new, deleting, moving, enabling & disabling, granting file permissions, and troubleshooting account and Server issues.  ? Use Remedy ticketing system to record and route all Customer matters  ? Ensure that all tickets are assigned to the correct que and timely addressed  ? Restore files and user data  ? Provide status updates and reports as needed  ? Access servers, printers and when necessary, machines remotely and via web  ? Consult with coworkers to research problems and find solutions System Administrator CBS Inc. - Fort Lee, VA November 2015 to June 2016 Supervisor: CIV Michael Edwards (804) 765-9699    Although providing Windows Server and BEMT Machine support to roughly 500 Systems accompanying a host of Active Duty Military, Students and Civilian Staff under the U.S. Army Ordnance Basic Electronic Maintenance Training Department, responsibilities included, but not limited to:    ? Keeping the Division Chief informed of all issues and resolutions  ? Received, logged, and investigated customer requests, afterwards, following up on all issues to assure resolution and satisfaction  ? Coordinated and documented software, upgrades, and preventive & remedial maintenance for the Windows Server System  ? Maintained records of software and hardware failures on the Server  ? When necessary, configured and tested new software, hardware, and user systems for effective integration  ? Ensured the Database was backed up before applying any changes  ? Verified that nightly jobs and backups ran on the Server  ? Troubleshot and resolved issues with the CAI program and the IDA Trainers  ? Coordinated with Ft. Gordon's SA to write scripts to resolve NIDA issues  ? Duplicated images to Hard Drives  ? Fixed domain and AD errors  ? Ensured that all previous BEMT equipment was prepared for turn-in and inventoried all new equipment  ? Handled replacing inoperable equipment  ? Maintained SOP's and documented all procedures and resolutions related to installation and maintenance  ? Configured and supported HP, Samsung, and Nida hardware Systems Analyst CSC - Fort Lee, VA April 2014 to November 2015 Supervisor: Dennis Williams (804) 691-1130    While providing assistance within the Army Logistics University, working a part of an IT Operations Team, duties included but not limited to:  ? Provided technical support, unified system connectivity, and guidance to students, instructors, and staff that may have connectivity or issues in operating any machine  ? Assisted in maintaining file servers and network access  ? Documented and analyzed system anomalies to ensure optimum equipment performance  ? Troubleshot, installed, researched, and patched Information Assurance Vulnerability Assessment critical updates through Remote Desktop Protocol  ? Assisted users and found resolutions for Office programs caused by the MS Office 2013 push  ? Deployed Windows 7 using PXE on numerous Dell/HP/Lenovo desktops and laptops  ? Troubleshot local and network printers, scanners, and Multi-Functional printers with digital sending capability  ? Replaced Projector and Smart Board bulbs, along with minimal troubleshooting if the issues is not bulb related.  ? Repaired/replaced hardware components such as: video cards, RAM, hard drives, SATA and IDE cables  ? Used Remedy and Track-it ticketing systems to support and assist users  ? Transferred and backed up data remotely for new and existing users  ? Configured machines to display on smart boards for team building exercises for students  ? Gathered data for life-cycle replacements; drawing up specific proposals for modified or replacement systems  ? Inventoried machines along with renaming and re-labeling ones that required so  ? Assisted in designing and implementing new methods, procedures, and systems (both automated and manual) to improve the processing and flow of information within the company  ? Assisted in developing documentation of the system specifications, including system scripts, system installation procedures, system backup and recovery techniques and system test methods  ? Monitored and evaluates system performance. Analyzes, installs and configures applications as needed  ? Continued work configuring and troubleshooting outlook, network and local printers, Activclient, Dual Persona, and Internet Explore & Firefox issues Systems Administrator TTC Inc. - Fort Eustis, VA February 2013 to April 2014 Supervisor: Cinzia Starace (571)-312-1686    While working independently and overseeing a team of 13 Active Duty Soldiers and Civilians under the U.S. Army Aviation Logistics System. Supporting around 300 desktop machines and users, responsibilities included but not limited to:    ? Trained and supported military and DoD civilians supporting the US Army through telephone, remote and in person assistance  ? Attended weekly Command and Staff meetings, updating the LTC on technical issues within the battalion  ? When needed, provided my team with equipment required to work effectively, made sure deadlines were met, and provided assistance when needed  ? Assisted my team with computer/user issues as needed  ? Configured and maintained hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, SANs (Storage Area Networks), etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements  ? Repaired/replaced hardware components such as: video cards, RAM, hard drives, SATA and IDE cables  ? Made network cabling  ? Assembled and configured new hardware  ? Developed and maintain installation and configuration procedures  ? Contributed to and maintain system standards  ? Created, changed, deleted, maintained, and grant permissions to user accounts in Active Directory  ? Created computer accounts in AD and join machines to the domain  ? Created and managed group policies and OUs in AD  ? Experience configuring network accounts and Enterprise Email accounts for users with Dual Persona  ? Performed regular Network backup operations, ensuring all required file systems and system data are successfully backed up  ? Managed user's ATCTS accounts, ensured annual training was updated  ? Programed blackberry cellular devices for use  ? Deployed Win 7 OS  ? Configured machines for VPN  ? Patched and upgraded machines, administrative tools, and utilities using SCCM on Server 08  ? Ensured only approved software is loaded onto computer systems  ? Experience as a SharePoint and Intranet Administrator, utilize Adobe Dreamweaver  ? Experience as an AKO (Army Knowledge Online) Web Administrator  ? Maintained battalion Share Drive  ? Maintained battalion email Distribution List  ? Worked broadly with Adobe Acrobat Pro, Flash Player, Reader, Creative Suite 5, Lotus Form Viewer, ApproveIt Desktop, Java, and Axway Desktop Validator  ? Approved/ Denied technical equipment requests  ? Processed all LAN and phone line repairs and installations  ? Turn-in equipment to Supply/Logistics  ? Gathered data for life-cycle replacements  ? Worked with Visio to construct printer and network infrastructure of my Battalion  ? Researched and recommend essential hardware for my Battalion Education Bachelors of Science in Computer and Information Science in Network Security Management ECPI University - Virginia Beach, VA September 2009 to January 2012 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ CE September 2020 MCSA: Windows 7 Present MCSA: Server 2012 Present