Systems Operations Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Operations Engineer Phoenix, AZ TOP-PERFORMING IT PROFESSIONAL An innovative hard-working results driven professional offering a progressive career in information technology with experience encompassing diverse areas of computer systems: Proven experience in network/hardware/operating system troubleshooting, PC assembly, system integration, technical support, and customer service helpdesk. Productive self-starter with a strong work ethic and consistently achieving goals: Proven talents for designing, implementing and maintenance of organizational networking projects according to the specific needs and requirements of tasks. Work Experience Systems Operations Engineer Limelight Networks - Scottsdale, AZ Present 1.Build and config a variety of linux base systems including freebsd,ubuntu and several others.  2.Contribute to a bash and python code base to improve tools that are used.  3.Access and use production tools including jira,conflence,salt and many other agile type work flow tools.  4.Configuration of arista, foundry, hp switches and router. Network Administrator/Programmer CDI Corp June 2018 to April 2019 1.    Support of several hundred servers including Windows and Linux   2.    Policy implementation involving patching and creating api microservices  that communicate with Ivanti patching software with Powershell, Nodejs  and JavaScript.        3.    Maintenance of Azure VM and on-site VMware vSphere systems. Using a  variety of applications.  IT Network Support ARIZONA PRIORITY CARE July 2016 to June 2018 1. Provides overall support for all things network related which include Cisco switches, WatchGuard and ruckus wireless system.   2. Providing Supports for all VMs using VMware vSphere   3. Implement the use of VoIP System (Mitel 5000) for various forms of maintenance.   4. Adequately securing all devices that are in force using sophosAv, group polices and staying up to date with the latest exploits  Linux Administration INTRASERVE WEBHOSTING February 2015 to July 2016 1. Solely responsible for a large amount of Linux administration work including complete server maintenance hosting accounts and vps’s.  2. Provided customer support for Australians in regard to their hosting accounts.  3. Provided VPS setup and administration on variety of operating   4. Applying and use of Nodejs and other JavaScript Web Technologies  Education Associate in Computer Science Vatterott College - Omaha, NE January 2007 to August 2010 Skills JavaScript (3 years), Linux. (5 years), Technical Support, Networking, Windows, Microsoft Office, security, Vmware, Linux, Devops, Docker, Bash, Azure, Nodejs (3 years), Python (Less than 1 year), System Administrator, Active Directory, Powershell Certifications/Licenses Developer Certification Present Developer Certification, representing approximately 300 hours of coursework A+ Certified Present Additional Information RELEVANT SKILLS   Centos Various  Spam filters   Sophos AV Server  DNS Configuration   Postfix and Dovecot  Apache   Webserver IIS   Powershell   JavaScript  Drupal   Wordpress  IBoss  Linux Administration Web Hosting  Nodejs   PC Troubleshooting and Repair   Mitel 5000 ProofPoint  Networking   Window Server 2008/2012/2016  VMware Sphere   Window 7   Windows 10   Mac Operating Systems   Microsoft Office 2007/2010/2013   Active Directory   Exchange Server 2010   Watch Guard VPN   Dell AppAssure   Customer Service   DNS Management Windows   Deployment Service  WHM   PDQ Deploy   Citrix XenServe