IT Support Desk Engineer IT Support Desk Engineer IT Support Desk Engineer - Booking.com Kirkland, WA Work Experience IT Support Desk Engineer Booking.com - Bellevue, WA December 2016 to Present • Provided second line response for users requiring assistance with information technology issues and problems.  • Tracked issue resolutions by updating an internal knowledgebase and/or communicating findings with relevant business units.  • Provides technical assistance in identifying, evaluating and developing systems and procedures that are cost effective and meet user requirements.  • Designed workflows and procedures to improve and promote quality.  • Work closely with stakeholders to define parameters, then translate customer needs into formal requirements, using knowledge of the industry and delivery methodology.  • Developed a Kiosk solution that was used to lock down testing machines used by future employees Support Desk Administrator Booking.com - Bellevue, WA May 2014 to December 2016 • Provided first line response for users requiring assistance with information technology issues and problems.  • Responded to requests for technical assistance by phone and email.  • Installed and configured workstations based on company needs and requirements.  • Facilitate training sessions on systems use and troubleshooting for new and existing staff. Junior Systems Administrator Redwire Services LLC - Seattle, WA July 2013 to March 2014 • Acted as an Office Assistant that maintained day to day office tasks  • Setup and configured Windows workstations that were to be deployed.  • Maintained, configured and updated Windows based server infrastructures hosted in Amazon Web Services Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Security Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT July 2019 Skills Amazon web services, Python, Web services, Active directory, Cisco, Hyper-v, Ios, Bash, Linux, Sql, Windows 7, Ms windows 7, Microsoft office, Microsoft office 2010, Office 2010, Mac, Mac os Certifications/Licenses CCNA Security CCNA Routing and Switching Linux+ Security+ Project+ LPIC-1 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS SUMMARY  Systems: MS Windows 7/8.1/10, Mac OS X, Amazon Web Services, Linux, Hyper-V,  Languages: Python, Cisco IOS, Powershell, SQL, Bash  Software: System Center Configuration Manager 2012, JAMF Casper Suite, Active Directory, IPAM, Windows Configuration Designer  Applications: Microsoft Office 2010-2013, Google Apps Suite