Linux Systems Administrator/Engineer Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Engineer Linux Systems Administrator/Engineer - Trinitech Consulting Owings Mills, MD Information Technology professional with extensiveexperience analyzing, troubleshooting and resolving Solaris and Linux OS problems in both client and enterprise server environments. Pay attention to Details with great level of excellence.  Day-to-day functional administration tasks, as well as application-specific technical support.  Quick understanding of IT concepts for Immediate implementation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator/Engineer Trinitech Consulting - Laurel, MD August 2016 to Present - Configuring and troubleshooting; DNS, SSH, DHCP in Linux both at server and client level.  - Responsible for installation and configuration of Linux servers.  - Configured and implemented Network Interfaces  - Monitoring System Performance of Virtual memory, Managing Swap Space, Disk utilization and CPU utilization.  - Experienced building Linux KVM and VMware ESXi5.0 and 6.0 host  - Experienced in managing vCenter servers, install and upgradeVMware products.  - Designed, implemented and managed solutions to support virtual infrastructure.  - Installing, configuring, administering, troubleshooting VMware server on ESXi platform and VMware client, workstation.  - Performed backup and restore of VMware host server configuration, Virtual Machine backup, snapshot  - Provide technical support for different accounts in a leveraged data center built, maintained and managed VMware vSphere environments consisting of several servers  - Working on user account Creation and Management, groups and access levels.  - Creating, Mount and Unmount File Systems.  - Control the System Logging services and examine system Log Filesall system events.  - Systems Security Administration.  - Knowledgeable with Bash Shell Scripting for process automation of databases, applications, backup and scheduling using Cron jobs  - Troubleshoot File Systems and Disk Management.  - Experience with Web-based technologies, including reverse proxy servers, SSL certificate configuration, three-tier architecture, service-oriented architecture, enterprise service bus, http, and differences between browsers.  - Provided timely solution to users on issues of network NFS, NIS& software problems  - Coordinate with delivery partners (Programmers, Developers, Network and Security teams) to ensure timely delivery of project.  - Good knowledge of network devices such as switches, routers, firewalls.  - Vi editor to edit necessary configuration files  - Resolve software and hardware issues  - Troubleshoot network connectivity issues using commands like traceroute, nslookup.  - Maintaining and troubleshooting Network Connectivity.  - Proficient in implementing network bonding or NIC teaming when necessary for constant flow of data so as to reduce load balancing fault tolerance, and redundancy.  - Password configurations, process monitoring, Boot up and Shutdown procedures.  - Maintained the regular backups using Snap shot backup.  - Proficient with TCP/IP modules and troubleshooting relative issues.  - Experienced with Internet technologies including TCP/IP and HTTP. Linux System Administrator/Engineer Angels of Mercy Health Services Inc - Hyattsville, MD January 2016 to July 2018 - Responsible for general systems administration in a multi-platform environment, including: user account creation, system configuration management, OSinstallations, security updates.  - Reviews system logs, application logs and security logs. Monitor networks to ensure security and availability to specific users. Performs routine maintenance of user accounts and permissions. Writes and implements scripts to automate tasks.  - Proficient in configuring and troubleshooting DNS, SSH, DHCP in Linux OS both at server and client level.  - Proficient in using syntax like nslookup dig, trace route, ping, ifconfig to troubleshoot DNS and network issues in Linux.  - Experienced with Internet technologies including TCP/IP and HTTP  - Proficient in creating and managing LVMs and Ext4 file system in Linux  - Excellent Troubleshooting Skills on Linux and VMware Operating System and hardware platform  - Proficient working with different versions of red hat (6 & 7)  - Maintain network systems such as servers, switches, firewalls and routers  - Maintaining Local area networks.  - Provide first level support to end-user community on hardware, software and network related problems, questions, and/or issues.  - Use Active Directory (Windows Server 2003) to create, modify, reset and delete user account, reset and modify user password  - Setup computers and printers on the network  - Monitoring TCP/IP network environment  - Experience with Internet technologies including TCP/IP and HTTP  - Scheduling backup of files.  - Performed Operating System upgrades  - Maintained and Advice on Internet and networking infrastructure design  - Troubleshoot desktop applications issues while maintaining excellent customer service.  - Performed Computer Systems Repairs and services.  - Virus Protection Software Installation.  - Security vulnerability remediation as shared by security team.  - F5 support to support rolling deployment.  - Created clones from existing VMs (both live and powered-off).  - Performed monthly maintenance to the entire infrastructure.  - Preformed troubleshooting with service team, Ops and SE.  - Collect data to support Performance troubleshooting. Education Computer support technician, brightwood college.beltsville md Computer engineering osun state polytech