IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - Insignia Technology Services, LLC Williamsburg, VA Work Experience IT Manager Insignia Technology Services, LLC - Newport News, VA August 2017 to Present 23606  - Supervised an IT department of 4 individuals  ? Guided Jr team members through individual career goals  ? Provided quarterly reviews for each team member  - Directly responsible for over $500K of IT equipment  ? Properly documented and disposed of over 10 years of obsolete IT equipment  ? Barcoded and accounted for every piece of Company IT policy valued over $200  ? Communicated directly with vendors for the purchase of Corporate IT equipment and software  - Provided Top-tier help desk support to the IT helpdesk team  - Designed and implemented a migration strategy from on premise servers to Microsoft Azure  ? Completely rebuild domain to better follow Microsoft Best Practices  * Seamlessly migrated all 120 employees to new Active Directory Domain with zero data loss  ? Modernized laptop imaging from System Center Configuration Manager to Microsoft Windows Autopilot and Microsoft Intune  - Designed and installed IT Infrastructure in two remote office locations.  ? Acquired and configured SonicWALL TZ series network security appliance for each location.  ? Established site-to-site VPN connections between offices and Microsoft Azure.  ? Installed and configured Cisco Meraki Wireless Access Points incorporating a WPA2-Enterprise security for corporate devices. Systems Administrator Insignia Technology Services, LLC - Newport News, VA May 2015 to August 2017 23606  - Technical lead for enterprise domain supporting 100+ employees and subcontractors  - Complete rebuild of infrastructure using Dell VRTX servers in accordance with Microsoft and VMware best practices.  ? Production Environment consisted of a Dell VRTX unit configured with System Center Virtual Machine Manager in a high availability cluster and Server 2016 Datacenter hosts.  ? Software Development environment consisted of a Dell VRTX unit configured with VMWare's vSphere technology, managed through vCenter in a high availability cluster running ESXi 6.5 hosts.  - Modernized Domain servers by migrating virtual infrastructure to Windows Server 2016.  ? Active Directory, Group Policy, Certificate services, RADIUS services, Print Services, Remote Application Services  - Migrated Microsoft Exchange from 2010 to 2016 and configured a "hybrid" topology with Exchange Online.  - Migrated SharePoint 2010 farm to 2013 to ease transition to SharePoint Online.  ? Utilizing Sharegate and PowerShell, migrated all site collection from the on-premise SharePoint to SharePoint Online.  - Reorganized corporate Wi-Fi from a single, shared password to WPA2 Enterprise with Active Directory integration utilizing Ubiquiti Unifi products.  - Lead the configuration of Microsoft DirectAccess to ease remote laptop connection to the domain and to maintain compliance configurations.  - Lead the implementation of Microsoft's Bitlocker Administration and Monitoring service to enforce encryption policies on corporate laptops.  - Implemented Microsoft Enterprise Mobility suite to allow the use of Azure Active Directory Premium  ? Implemented Azure Multi-Factor Authentication  ? Implemented User Self-Service Password Reset, drastically reducing calls to the help desk.  ? Migrated all on-premise Active Directory services to Microsoft Azure to bring the Insignia Infrastructure to a zero footprint and drastically increase Service Availability  ? Migrated all user laptops to Windows 10 utilizing Intune's Modern Device Management. Human Intelligence Collector United States Army - Fort Riley, KS February 2007 to February 2012 66442  Sergeant  - Conducted formal training courses and one-on-one coaching in all aspects of human intelligence operations to build cohesive and highly motivated teams.  - Team Sergeant and Operational Management Sergeant during two deployments to Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.  - Applied critical thinking and problem solving abilities to meet time-sensitive deadlines while ensuring reliability and quality of 124 intelligence reports; resulting in 99 of those reports being published.  - Deployed and maintained a remote network in hostile environment utilizing Windows operating systems and Cisco equipment while implementing Department of Defense policies, procedures and security measures.  - Controlled inventory for all platoon level computer equipment and liaised with supply channels to procure new and replacement equipment.  - Maintained Army Gold Master status of computers and configured SIPR user accounts using Microsoft Active Directory.  - Assisted in deployment of Deployable Joint Command and Control system which utilized self-contained networks, VoIP systems, and advanced video display technologies. Education B.A.S. in Information Systems Cybersecurity ITT Technical Institute - Norfolk, VA June 2015 A.A.S. in Network Systems Administration ITT Technical Institute - Norfolk, VA December 2013 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, EXCHANGE, MICROSOFT EXCHANGE, MICROSOFT OFFICE, WINDOWS 7, WINDOWS SERVER 2008, Vmware, Network Administration, Customer Service, Vendor Management, Strategic Planning, Network Administration, Vendor Management, Vmware, Strategic Planning, IT Management, Customer Service Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Sergeant Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ February 2015 to Present Microsoft 365 Certified: Modern Desktop Administrator Associate July 2019 to Present Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS:  Windows Server 2008/2012/2016  Microsoft Active Directory  Microsoft Exchange 2010/2013/2016  Microsoft Office 365  Microsoft Azure  Windows 7/8.1/10