Sr. Systems Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Systems Administrator - Bose Corporation Dallas, TX • Accomplished Systems Administrator with 7+ years of experience building and supporting Linux and UNIX systems in distributed server farm environments.  • Proficient with a wide variety of computer software and hardware.  • Proven ability to grasp new technologies and effectively address a wide range of challenges.  • Detail oriented, able to get the job done right the first time.  • Functions smoothly in a collaborative, performance-driven environment.  • Takes initiative on new challenges and possesses the flexibility to adapt to the changing needs of the business.  • Skilled in workload management and project distribution.  • Able to remain calm and meet deadlines when under pressure.  • Quick learner with strong training and mentoring abilities.  • Mature individual with a proven record of reliability and trustworthiness. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Systems Administrator Bose Corporation - Framingham, MA March 2018 to Present • Performed day to day systems administration tasks like installation, configuration, performance tuning, updates and patching of Linux operating systems and applications  • Installation, Configuration, Administration and Troubleshooting of VMWare ESX 5.x and vSphere  • Creating Templates from VM's, deploy VM's from templates and allocate resources.  • Performance tuning of VMware servers, Virtual sessions and management of server resources between Virtual Machines.  • Migration of Virtual Machines using V-Motion.  • Creating duplicate Virtual Machine's using cloning technology (hot & cold).  • Performed daily and weekly backup scheduling, data recovery, tape rotation for production servers using Veritas NetBackup 5.x  • Designed and implemented disaster recovery plan using standby Oracle Database. Created scripts for Oracle database backup, recovery, and monitoring.  • Installed all Oracle databases and OEM tools on Linux and Windows 2008 environments.  • Troubleshoot of incidents and problems, analysis of logs to show trends and potential problem areas so that action can be taken to minimize occurrence of incidents and improve process of problem reporting.  • NetApp storage administration and configuration of CIFS, NFS and iSCSI, quota Management, NFS exports and data migration.  • Involved in implementation of Amazon EC2, S3 and other services. Administration of AWS infrastructure,  performance tuning of Amazon EC2 instances.  • Configured Security group for EC2 Window and Linux instances and also for puppet master and puppet agents.  • AWS data backup (snapshot, AMI creation) techniques within AWS infrastructure.  • Created S3 backups using versioning enable and moved objects to Amazon Glacier for archiving purpose.  Pre migration checks and configurations on Linux and Windows server environment.  • Created Shell and Perl scripts to automate most of the daily activities like log monitoring, log rotation and purging, proactive systems monitoring etc.  • Hardening Linux O/s. for security check for all the known security lapses like presence of the unwanted packages, unwanted services and controlling the access to valid users and hosts etc.  • Performance monitoring and tuning of Linux servers with system utilities and by using Shell Scripts.  • Testing of operating system updates, patches, and configuration changes in development platform and then  applied on production platform.  • Maintained user administration of user accounts, profiles and quotas as per company policy.  • Conducted vulnerability scans of the network, distributed, scheduled, coordinated, installed, tested, and verified security patches and fixes.  • Installed, configured and maintained Red Hat Satellite Servers, and custom repositories.  • Performed automation of server provisioning, package management and configuration management using Redhat Satellite and puppet servers.  • Configured kick start environment to automate the Linux installation process with PXE boot.  • Implemented enterprise backup management in production environment using NetBackup 5.5. Sr. Unix/Linux system Administrator Veraction LLC - Memphis, TN September 2016 to March 2018 Unix/Linux Administrator The Chickasaw Nation - Thackerville, OK April 2014 to August 2016 • Updated all test, development and production environments including webs, storages and database servers and its services.  • Setup, installed and configured Linux OS (Red Hat, Fedora) and WINS server 2003 on new servers, in charge and QA of the weekly patches and monthly releases to keep the site update.  • Supported Apache severs, Samba, SSH, MySQL& Oracle databases, Nagios monitoring.  • Plan and execute effort to migrate SuSE Linux to RHEL.  • Analyze running applications on SuSE systems.  • Configured and administered SENDMAIL, relay server.  • Domain controller (Active directory), DNS, DHCP, IIS, Exchange server/Outlook email.  • Deployed a number of new services for our environment, including a datacenter management application, email/webmail, an IP address management solution, and a user authentication portal.  • Assisted systems engineer and DBA with writing the new BASH scripts to automate the processes and generate alerts on low disk space.  • Wrote scripts to automate ID creation and modification  • Member of on-call group to troubleshoot critical alerts, logs. Maintained the disk space, backups & network connectivity on / off hours. Systems administrator Mindex Technologies, Inc - Rochester, NY November 2011 to April 2014 • Owned and covered for the SQL guard and Escalation to R & D components: build & system startup, CLI, platform, script setup, network, system security, MySQL, IBM compliance.  • Tested new installations and upgrade releases with systems data, configurations and job scheduling.  • Tested MySQL database, optimize, analyze, generate data, traffic, disk space utilization.  • Test system, archive backup, restore, import export via Tivoli Storage Manager, EMC Centera, Amazon S3, Softlayer, remote syslog encryption, logrotate, email alert notification, audit process, custom reports.  • Developed and executed test cases to diagnose issues and bugs, creating test data when required.  • Defined, developed and reviewed test plan and test cases for assigned projects.  • Worked through the configuration files of Xinetd and daemon services.  • Worked on the concept of GIT cloning to create GIT repository.  • Worked on VERITAS Cluster Server and VERITAS Volume Manager.  • Strong Knowledge in implementation of enterprise storage solutions SAN (created VGs and LVs on SAN disks), NAS (mounted and shared NAS devices for multi servers), logical volume management (LVM).  • Installed the official build of MongoDB on other Linux systems from MongoDB archives.  • Worked with developer in design, debug, and reproduce customer issues, stimulate the test environment with data and variety of setup policy tasks.  • Wrote the BASH scripts to automate the processes monitor system logs and alert testing requirements.  • Tested Guardium product on databases: Oracle, MysSQL, DB2, Informix, Sybase, Postgres, Netezza on different architecture of UNIX/LINUX OS: RHEL, SUSE, AIX, HP, SOLARIS.  • Log defects, track status and verify resolution utilizing defect tracking system, via bugzilla, write the checklist test cases and using RTC source control system.  • Tested on many aspects: meta installer, auto installer, UID chain login basic test, smoke test, regression test on STAP Guardium product.  • Set up the policy, report and running query to capture violation, log in detail, log per match or terminate and generate alert to the groups/users. Education Bachelor's Skills AIX (2 years), BASH (4 years), Linux (7 years), Red Hat (3 years), Security (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Operating Systems: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 3.x, 4.x, 5.x, 6.x, 7.xCentOS, AIX, Fedora, Ubuntu, Windows  • Scripting: Bash, KSH, Perl  • Systems Management: Red Hat Network Satellite,Kickstart, Puppet Datacenter  • Management: Racking, cabling, Cisco UCS, Dell standalone, blade chassis and blades  • Security: Patch and Vulnerability Management, Policy Review and Implementation, System Hardening  • Virtualization: VMware ESXi, VMware VCenter  • Software: Apache, KSH/bash, Linux clustering, Microsoft Office Suite, NFS, NIS, Samba, Sendmail, SSH, IBM MQ, New Relic Monitor  • Miscellaneous: AD, DNS, SSL,DHCP, NTP, FTP, SFTP,SCP,CIFS, Splunk, Nagios, NetBrain.