UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator UNIX/Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator - Trinitech Consulting INC Tucson, AZ • UNIX/Linux System Administrator with over 5 years of experience in a multiplatform Unix and Linux environment with hands-on experience in the administration and management of Solaris 10 and 11, Windows Servers and operating systems, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Centos 6, and 6.4, VMWARE Esxi and Oracle Virtual Box  • Adaptable, collaborative, strong team player, detail oriented, ability to multitasking Excellent verbal and written communication skills; ability to work within strict deadlines and with a wide spectrum of people; Project Leader experience  • Solid background in systems and software installation, user and group administration, role base access control, file transfer and sharing; competent in file systems, volume and storage management, patch management amongst others.  • Very passionate about building tools and automation to make infrastructure more robust. Also enjoys learning and acquiring knowledge quickly. Yet still a skilled communicator and technology enthusiast who seeks collaboration and is always focused on producing measurable result. Work Experience UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator Trinitech Consulting INC 2014 to Present Builds, Install, configure brand new virtual and physical servers, test, deploy Solaris 10, RHEL 6, CentOS 6.4 servers to the network: OS installation and configuration - standard and advanced (net installation and jumpstart, kickstart).  * Hardening, Patching (Solaris 10 Servers using 10-Recommended patches), and upgrades (release), on standalone servers (using single user mode), and on production servers (live upgrade)  * Writes basic bash shell scripts to automate processes using crontab; Installs packages and applications  * Configure Apache and MySQL on Solaris 10 for virtual and web hosting; building and hosting websites; configure web hosting company DNS settings: install and configure Samba for quick publishing using a third party web page maker.  * User and security management  * Setup, configure and troubleshoot TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS; NFS, CIFS, and samba servers in a multiplatform LAN  * Shell scripting (bash) to schedule and automate processes including full and incremental backups using tar, cpio and ufsdump; migrate and enlarge file systems on Solaris 10.  * Managing swap configurations LVM, ZFS volume manager, and VERITAS volume manager 2008 to 2008 installed and configure a LAN wide NAS (Free NAS) used for creating LUNs and attaching to windows 2008 servers and to Solaris 10 servers using iSCSi  * Build, configure, secure and deploy Solaris 10 system (global)  * Build, Install, configure, secure, deploy and migrated Solaris 10 local zones (spare root or whole root zone)  * Troubleshoot Solaris 10 issues emanating from hardware and software related and configuration issues  * Virtualization (VMware Esxi 5, 5.5 and Oracle Virtual Box)  * Setup a domain and an active directory on a Windows 2008 server; install and configure a samba server on a Solaris 10 and mapping to the windows 2008 server.  * Responsible for data management using native Solaris utilities for archiving, compression backup and restore.  * Supporting system users and troubleshooting system issues. Document solutions for future reference.  * Installing and maintaining the operating system and related software products.  * Participating in root-cause analysis of recurring issues, system backup and security setup, Provide 24X7 support in Production Testing and Development environments.  * Installed and configured databases on Unix/Linux platforms    OPPERATING SYSTEM/SOFTWARE  Platforms: Redhat Linux 5.x, 6.x, 7.x, Centos, Sun Solaris, Windows NT/2000/2003/2008 servers.  Tools: Nagios, VMWare, Samba, DNS, NIS, TCP/IP, LVM, Security: Linux iptables, Linux firewalld, TCP Wrapper, Trip Wire, WireShark, Selinux, Policy Checker.  Backup: Veritas, Netbackup.  Applications: Apache, ( applications that you know)  Programming Languages: Bash and KSH Education Bachelor's degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Bamenda Skills Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Cifs, Nfs, Vmware, Ftp, Sftp, Oracle, Svm, Veritas, Bash, Account management