Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - Alert Logic Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer Alert Logic 2014 to Present • Senior level Linux systems administration experience (RHEL and CentOS).  • Configuration, management, and tuning of VMware.  • Scripting skills with Python and Shell.  • Proven experience monitoring and managing applications running in a public cloud environment - AWS.  • Strong knowledge of network protocols such as IP, TCP, UDP, with a heavy emphasis on HTTP and Nginx.  • Proactively maintaining critical shared infrastructure systems and processes, which support the customer base, including but not limited to YUM, Satellite, Active Directory, VMware, and LDAP.  • Assisting in policing our corporate and configuration policies.  • Monitoring system performance & performing preventive maintenance on servers.  • Troubleshooting and analyzing cause of performance problems.  • Performing migrations of customer data as needed to maintain balanced loads on systems or in the event of emergency.  • Setting up and configuring a CUPS server from scratch and connecting printers to it via web interface.  • Resizing partitions via LVM.  • Creating a Samba server and sharing, creating, and configuring NFS server and client to mount a partition.  • Multiple syncing via RSYNC. Server Administrator Hewlett-Packard Enterprise 2011 to 2014 • Manage and support compliance (internal and external) audit requests on the network security Infrastructure and remediation. Involved extensively with security audits, intrusion testing, Penetration test, contingency planning, and access control.  • Expertise in troubleshooting of Computer Hardware and related problem like UPS, SMPS, Printer, and drivers.  • Installing, configuring and troubleshooting of Network Equipment.  • Lead a team of highly qualified technicians on project critical to operations for high profile clients including EBay, MSN, Facebook, and Amazon.  • Replacing various parts on the servers, Motherboards, processors, hard drives, backplanes, Smart Array cards, and Memories.  • Installed and configured DNS, DHCP, and Wins Servers.  • Authorized DHCP server to lease IP addresses.  • Exceptional ability to diagnose and solve system problems while working under pressure to meet aggressive deadlines with limited resources environment. Host Gator 2009 to 2011 Linux Junior Administrator  • Performed software installation, upgrades to Linux operating systems, layered software packages, and maintains them in accordance with established policies, procedures and service level agreements.  • Conduct routine hardware and software audits of Linux workstations/servers for compliance with established standards, policies, procedures, and configuration guidelines.  • Analyze, logs, tracks and resolve software/hardware matters of significance pertaining to networking, connectivity issues, printers, servers, and applications to meet business needs.  • Perform troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose common system problems; document system events to ensure continuous functioning; recommend course of action and implementation as approved.  • Monitor the security of critical systems (e.g., e-mail servers, database servers, web servers, etc.) and changes to highly sensitive computer security controls to ensure appropriate system administrative actions, investigate, and report on noted irregularities.  • Conduct network vulnerability assessments using tools to evaluate attack vectors, identify system vulnerabilities, and develop remediation plans and security procedures. Education A.A. in Computer Networking Houston Community College 2012 B.S. in Computer Information System University of Houston at Victoria Skills AWS. (4 years), LDAP. (4 years), NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (4 years), NFS (4 years), security (5 years), saltstack (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating systems: Red Hat (RH 5 to RHEL 6), CentOS, Debian  Virtualization: VMware EXSI 5.5. AWS, UCS  Monitoring Products: Nexpose, Nagios, Opsview, Nmap, Wireshark, TCPDump  Network Services: DNS/Bind, NFS, TSM, LDAP, SSH, DHCP, TFTP, iSCSI  Security Products: SELinux, Iptables, Tcpdump, Wireshark, Snort, Ipfilter, SSL  Configuration Management: Ansible and Chef