IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - The Institute for Integrative Nutrition Valley Stream, NY Work Experience IT Manager The Institute for Integrative Nutrition - New York, NY April 2016 to Present • Lead and define companywide infrastructure strategy with a focus on flexibility, scalability and security  • Work with department leaders to provide tools, vision and training to solve problems and remove road  blocks  • Responsible for ensuring underlying infrastructure of servers, storage, LAN, WAN, Video  Conferencing and communications is stable, secure and available 24/7/365  • Ensure tracking of related IT issues, coordinate resolution and assist in driving issues to closure  • Develop strategy, road maps and define the budget needs and work to deliver projects on time and within budget scope.  • Coordinated the successful completion of moves and migrations.  • Establishing, Maintaining and negotiating outside IT vendor relationships  • Oversaw migration from dedicated hosted exchange to office 365  • Oversight / Planning and support for 200+ users both remote and onsite  • Manage the infrastructure / help desk project for the company Systems Administrator The Institute for Integrative Nutrition - New York, NY February 2013 to March 2016 Responsible for maintaining and operating computer systems and networks. Install, support and manage servers and resolve issues as needed. Install patches and perform system backups and  recovery.  • Maintain VMWare ESXI and Hyper-V VMs and storage back end.  • Maintain and implement SaaS solutions. (Slack, Jira, incontact, Google Apps, Dropbox, Creative Cloud, Marketo, Zendesk, etc)  • Manage user accounts, email and Group policy in Active directory, Exchange and other Systems used  by the company.  • Setup DR, Replication and Failovers for all critical systems and data  • Installed and scheduled all new PC and software deployments and upgrades, administered patch  management, and maintained hardware inventory.  • Implementation and support for internal and external infrastructure including backups, virtual machines  Firewalls, VPN etc. Help Desk ILW.COM - New York, NY August 2012 to January 2013 • Provide helpdesk support(onsite/remote) to employees.  • Troubleshooting networking issues  • Setup WIFI networks.  • Maintain online antivirus, trend micro.  • Maintenance and setup of network printers.  • Setup and troubleshooting of employ emails on phones.  • Troubleshooting software and hardware issues.  • Upgrade Computers  • Manage Scanning project for www.speedyscanning.com (part of ilw.com) Education Bachelor's Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dns, Exchange, Networking, Network Administration, Disaster Recovery, VoIP, Strategic Planning, Vmware, Citrix, IT Management