Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - ODME Solutions LLC San Diego, CA Systems Engineer with over eight years of experience in the Information Technology field specializing in specializing in Command, Control Communications, Computers and Intelligence (C4I) network, server, and client system administration. Very capable of troubleshooting, diagnostics, and repair of IT assets effectively and efficiently. Possess excellent customer service and communication skills, patience, professional working attitude, and discipline. Proven ability working under stressful conditions in a fast paced, operational environment Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer ODME Solutions LLC June 2017 to Present • Support the integration of new, updated, or upgraded Global Command and Control System Maritime (GCCS-M) software segments and applications from multiple developing agencies and/or vendors.  • Support the integration of segments and applications, systems, subsystems, and hardware components into conceptual, preliminary, and baseline products with the core system software and the performance of integration testing of the various components of the system  • Support the operation and administration of GCCS-M systems and supporting systems consisting of PCs, workstations, servers, LANs, routers, switches, firewalls, security devices, and communications devices both Secret and Unclassified.  • Administer Solaris, and Windows operating systems and Active Directory; virtual machines and private clouds to provide multiple instances of production-like environments (labs) used in software development, quality assurance, automated testing, and integration activities; SAN storage infrastructure to ensure optimal use and sufficient capacity and maintain firewalls and all host security activities. Assess need for any system reconfigurations (minor or significant) and perform them if required.  • Provide support to fielded GCCS-M 4.X Force Level, Group Level and Unit Level systems    Prior Title/Experience Analyst Engineer Scientist Pat V. Mack Inc February 2016 to June 2017 • Support the integration of new, updated, or upgraded Global Command and Control System Maritime (GCCS-M) software segments and applications from multiple developing agencies and/or vendors.  • Support the integration of segments and applications, systems, subsystems, and hardware components into conceptual, preliminary, and baseline products with the core system software and the performance of integration testing of the various components of the system  • Support the operation and administration of GCCS-M systems and supporting systems consisting of PCs, workstations, servers, LANs, routers, switches, firewalls, security devices, and communications devices both Secret and Unclassified.  • Administer Solaris, and Windows operating systems and Active Directory; virtual machines and private clouds to provide multiple instances of production-like environments (labs) used in software development, quality assurance, automated testing, and integration activities; SAN storage infrastructure to ensure optimal use and sufficient capacity and maintain firewalls and all host security activities. Assess need for any system reconfigurations (minor or significant) and perform them if required.  • Provide support to fielded GCCS-M 4.X Force Level, Group Level and Unit Level systems  Prior Title(s)/Experience Systems Administrator Engility Corporation January 2015 to February 2016 • Provide direct support to the United States Marine Corps (USMC) Theater Battle Management Core Systems (TBMCS) Program Management Office (PMO). Provide subject matter expertise (SME) for the development of TBMCS System Administration Installation and Maintenance Training. Develop Lesson Plans and associated presentations for the conduct of training.  • Support hardware and system installations of TBMCS 1.1.3 Maintenance Release 2 Virtualized (MR2V), TBMCS 1.1.3 MR2V Vendor Update 1 (MR2V VU1), TBMCS 1.1.3 MR2V Security Service Pack 1 (MR2V SSP1), and TBMCS 1.1.3 MR3 Virtualized (MR3V)  • Develop lesson plans and presentations and conduct formal System Administrator Training.  • Develop procedures to assist USMC Units for conducting daily activities with TBMCS 1.1.3 MR2V, MR2V VU1, and MR3V  • Provide USMC Tactical Air Command Center Exercise on-site SME support as required. Tactical Data Systems Administrator - Corporal USMC September 2010 to December 2014 • More than four years of experience with Windows, UNIX, and Linux System Administration  • Instructed numerous Marines on the configuration of Theater Battle Management Core Systems (TBMCS)  • Extensive knowledge in the installation, configuration, and maintenance of the following C4I systems:  ? Theater Battle Management Core Systems (TBMCS) Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, EXCHANGE, VMWARE, LINUX, RED HAT, SOLARIS, UNIX, NETAPP, C++, GHOST, DATABASE, DATABASE SYSTEMS, ORACLE, R2, JAVA, BASH, X86, SYMANTEC, System Administrator, Powershell Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Corporal Certifications/Licenses Security+ Secret Clearance