Information Assurance Officer Information Assurance Officer Clayton, NC Proven Consolidated Afloat Networks and Enteprise Services (CANES) administrator seeking a position as an  information security analyst for protected information environments. Knowledgeable in Vmware, PKI certificates,  Active Directory, Retina Network Security Scanner, HBSS, CISCO routers, and McAfee. Work Experience Information Assurance Officer U.S. Navy May 2016 to Present Responsible for information, personnel, and physical security programs over 220 personnel and 255 network  assets.  • Managed and led the installation of the Navy's Consolidated Afloat Network Enterprise System (CANES)  (networked and standalone) onboard USS Monterey to conduct audits of 380 assets to increase network hardening  efforts and prevent possible intrusions.  • Conceptualized an audit scheduling schematic to ensure information security and operational objectives are met  and exceeded. Systems Administrator Security+, and Navy network October 2014 to Present • Ensured network operability, connectivity, and resolution of individual operator difficulties.  • Tracked and completed trouble calls keeping mission essential requirements met while displaying impeccable  customer service.  • Assigned and tracked computer related certification courses such as CompTIA A+, Security+, and Navy network  and information systems qualifications, qualifying 14 new personnel for administration of network systems.  • Managed and issued PKI certificates to users and configured tokens as primary network login access. US Navy - Norfolk, VA December 2013 to Present Technical Control Supervisor December 2013 to Present Directed control, operation and patching of long-haul communications media (including satellite) and local  circuits.  • Displayed technical and analytical troubleshooting abilities by fixing issues with the AN/WSC-3 HAVQUICK  system enabling secure communications with MV-22 Osprey and SH-60 Seahawk helicopters.  • Premiered an unprecedented single shipboard satellite communications link in support of Naval Special Warfare  assets setting the new optimum standard for future operations.  • Configured and programmed VTC-300 to ensure reliable communications for Tomahawk Strike Network (TSN).  Leading to successful Ballistic Missile Defense (BMD) for USS Monterey.  • Lead administrator for Linux based, Automated Digital Networking system (ADNS) which served as the backbone for all networks onboard Monterey and for COMSUBLANT. Administrator HBSS September 2015 to December 2017 Ensures the health of two ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) suites which manage critical systems that provide IP  services for USS Monterey.  • Analyzes Data Loss Prevention (DLP), Host Intrusion Prevention (HIPS) and VirusScan Enterprise (VSE) events  to recommend and create policy changes and exclusions for client systems that are experiencing compatibility  issues.  • Develops and implements Policy Auditor (PA) audits to comply with technical orders and audit systems for STIG  compliance.  • Plans, coordinates and executes ePO and Point Product upgrades once approved by the HBSS Program of Record  (PMW130).  • Evaluates customer requested ePO firewall change requests, assesses organizational risk, and implements  changes. Education Tactical Support Communications Course Jacksonville Navy Information Systems Technician School - Pensacola, FL 2014 to 2017 Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E6 Additional Information Active Top Secret/SCI security clearance • Vulnerability Management • CompTIA Security + Certified •  CompTIA A + Certified • Computer Network Defense Operating System Environment Qualified • Risk Mitigation