Full Time Key Holder Full Time Key Holder Full Time Key Holder Gaithersburg, MD Work Experience Full Time Key Holder Sherwin Williams, Co - Bethesda, MD April 2018 to January 2019 Main Duties    Opening/closing the store, servicing customers that come into the store, maintaining relationships with customers through sales  calls, and using customer knowledge to generate sales and foot traffic into the store. Create potential leads for the sales  representatives through information gathering from customers  • Open and Close the store  • Do daily deposits (Expand the phrase for these two. Include one or two tasks that you did as part of the process for opening/closing/doing. Also consider replacing "Do")  • Filled orders of over 200 gallons with no errors or mistakes.  • Aid in keeping large paint projects on schedule by servicing local jobs through our paint store  • Created new relationships with two area builders, securing bids for Sherwin for 3 new projects.  • Increased positive customer reviews of the store through excellent communication with customers and proper  recommendations of products. Systems Administrator Strosniders Hardware - Bethesda, MD April 2012 to December 2017 Main duties  I was tasked primarily with real time troubleshooting of workstation/POS issues, network issues across three remote locations, and management of our domain through Active Directory, and windows server.  • Earned promotion from cashier to Systems Administrator in less than 18 months.  • Deployed fully virtualized workstations to all three locations  • Managed VLANs for our network  • Performed in-place hardware upgrades  • Managed the physical infrastructure, including cable management and routing  • Management of proxy and email servers  Main achievements:  • Organized, and assembled the physical infrastructure of the 4th location in Kensington Maryland  • Successfully set up the infrastructure for the VOIP deployment, as well as finalizing the virtualization of the Potomac and Silver Spring locations. IT Administrator Center for Development of Communication January 2009 to January 2015 Main duties  Managed IT environment (platforms and CRM) for a capacity, building company with a global audience.  • Set up segmented networking (Private and Public LAN)  • Maintain workstations, servers, and printers.  • Set up VPN/VPS tunnel for remote access to ensure business continuity.  • Provided troubleshooting in Real Time  • Maintain the VPN and the File server  Main achievements:  • Achieved 5 9's of uptime with my existing remote infrastructure enabling the company and its global employees to maintain  productivity Education MCSA Montgomery College - Rockville, MD High school diploma Valley Forge Military Academy and College - Wayne, PA Skills Cisco, Infrastructure management, Vmware, Vpn, Server administration, Comptia, Hyper-v, Firewall, Linux, Customer service, Engineer, Process management, Sec Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified Security+ Network+ MCSA CCENT Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    • CompTIA A+ Net+ Sec+ • VMWare • Hyper-V    • Administering Networks (Network • Troubleshooting • Customer Service  Administration)    • Firewall Administration • Microsoft Server Administration • Cisco {Cisco Network Engineer  (CCENT)}    • Linux Administration • Cable Management • Infrastructure Management    • Sales • Process Management • VPN    • Virtual Private Servers • AWS/Google/Azure (Cloud) • Group Policy