Maintenance Administration Work center Supervisor - Database/ Systems Administrator Maintenance Administration Work center Supervisor - Database/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database/ Systems Administrator Las Vegas, NV Aviation Maintenance Administration Supervisor. Military Veteran with 7 years of proven experience in the United States Navy. Current Secret Security Clearance. Cross-platform experience in Systems/Database Administration, including analyzing, designing, installing, maintaining, and repairing hardware, software, peripherals, and network connections. Superior troubleshooting and technical support abilities with migrations, network connectivity, and security/database applications. Developed exceptional relationships with co-workers, management and end users. Excellent communication and problem resolution skills. Career supported by advanced military leadership and professional training. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Maintenance Administration Work center Supervisor - Database/ Systems Administrator U.S. Navy - Sigonella, Sicily December 2016 to Present Supervised 12 personnel in the administration and management of two Windows Servers and 100 workstations for 160 end users, ensuring 95% security compliance through software patching, differential and incremental backups, and log analysis.  ? Coordinated and performed the system integration of Naval Aviation Logistics Command Management Information System (NALCOMIS) within the ONE-NET network ensuring 100% functionality for all end users.  ? Performed hardware and software installations, resulting in the replacement and upgrade from Windows 2003 Application Server to Windows 2008 Application Server, while conducting regular software installs and patch updates for NALCOMIS OOMA (Optimized Organization Maintenance Activity) and McAfee endpoint products.  ? Ensured that the configuration and disposition of NALCOMIS Windows Application Server is compliant with Linux Server so that data Replication migrated to the Top-Tier, while ensuring all workstations were operational and had the correct user interface.  ? Provided problem resolutions and technical support for three application servers, network hardware, data storage equipment, hardware and software, printers, workstations and other network connected hardware and associated software in support of the NALCOMIS Application for classified and unclassified systems over the ONE-NET network.  ? Maintained security requirements by establishing and maintaining user accounts, profiles, file sharing, access privileges and overall network and system security.  ? Monitored system performance and performed daily network backups for two Windows servers to help with life cycle management.  ? Established contingency planning procedures for NALCOMIS data recovery.  ? Assisted Automated Data Processing Department (N6) with monthly Assured Complied Assessment Solutions (ACAS) vulnerability Scans for NALCOMIS.  ? Coordinated the implementation of new IT-based projects from NIC (Naval Information Warfare Center) for NALCOMIS OOMA 5.10 to 5.22 systems upgrade.  ? Ensured system security compliance by executing monthly vulnerability scans with legacy Retina scanning software and patching all Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVA) and Internet Explorer updates.  ? Resolved 14 trouble calls with local help desk to assist in synchronization and compatibility errors between NCTS (Naval Computer and Telecommunications Station) hardware and OOMA system software.  ? Provided hands-on training to 150 personnel during two database transitions, resulting in the success of both implementations and achieving 100% improved operational readiness.  ? Developed user documentation and frequently asked questions lists for end user knowledge base. Aviation Maintenance Administration - Systems Administrator/Analyst U.S. Navy - Whidbey Island, WA March 2013 to September 2016 Ensured accurate documentation of repair and maintenance procedures for 5 E/A-18G Electronic attack jets with a total value of over $340M.  • Performed hands-on administration, monitoring, and troubleshooting of Local Area network (LAN), resulting in optimum performance and minimum downtime.  • Performed audits on Information Technology systems to ensure 100% compliance with DoD and Navy IA requirements.  • Administered a network consisting of 150 end users on two Windows-based servers.  • Performed file system configuration and management.  • Completed Quarterly inventories of all IT Systems components.  • Created and maintained documentation as it relates to support, validation, installation, configuration, and processes, for all systems, including audio and video.  • Monitored daily logs and executed weekly and monthly audit routines to test and validate data integrity.  • Designed Pre and Post deployment inventory check lists for all network devices for Naval Aviation Logistics Command Management Information Systems (NALCOMIS) hardware and software applications needed for movement in and out of the United States.  • Lead the disaster recovery team during a "multiple hard drive failure" on Windows Server. Efforts resulted in 98% data recovery and fully operational system.  • Administrated and maintained environment security. Involved with administering security alerts to staff and daily and weekly data backups. Skills DBA