OPSTECH IT OPSTECH IT Owings Mills, MD Microsoft Certified IT Professional with over seven years’ experience as a System administrator. Responsible for technical design, planning, implementation and providing the highest level of performance tuning and recovery procedures for mission critical enterprise systems. Serve as a technical expert in the area of system administration for complex operating systems, identifying methods, solutions, and providing project leadership in order to provide a high level of service to our stakeholders. Seeking a challenging career with growth opportunities in a dynamic company. To utilize my skills in managing small/medium to large group of System Administrators. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience OPSTECH IT AMAZON - Baltimore, MD 2017 to Present • Designed and maintain all aspects of the Microsoft Active Directory environment which includes Domain Controllers, GPO, OU’s, DHCP, DNS, Security Groups and Accounts  • Responsible for designing, installing and supporting Microsoft Windows Server 2008/2012 servers. Implementation and maintenance DNS, DHCP, WINS, DFS, IIS, roles and services  • Designed and maintained new Microsoft Systems Center environment including Server infrastructure, administrator console, software and hardware inventory, software distribution patching, imaging, reporting, health monitoring and alerting  • Designed, installed and implement Active Directory for 1000+ users and multiple sites  • Installed and support Microsoft System Center suite and SharePoint 2010  • Troubleshoot Network TCP/IP problems, name resolution, IP conflicts, subnetting, supernetting and packet loss issues. Systems Administrator Elgon Technologies Inc 3317 Poplar Drive Upper Marlboro MD 2015 to 2017 • Responsible for maintenance, configuration and deployment of all existing and new Window Server 2008 R2, 2012, 2014 including development, implementation and maintenance of administrative procedures.  • Designed and maintain all aspects of the Microsoft Active Directory environment which includes Domain Controllers, GPO, OU’s, DHCP, DNS, Security Groups and Accounts  • Responsible for designing, installing and supporting Microsoft Windows Server 2008/2012 servers. Implementation and maintenance DNS, DHCP, WINS, DFS, IIS, roles and services  • Designed and maintained new Microsoft Systems Center environment including Server infrastructure, administrator console, software and hardware inventory, software distribution patching, imaging, reporting, health monitoring and alerting  • Designed, installed and implement Active Directory for 1000+ users and multiple sites  • Installed and support Microsoft System Center suite and SharePoint 2010  • Troubleshoot Network TCP/IP problems, name resolution, IP conflicts, subnetting, supernetting and packet loss issues. Education Bachelor's in Computer science university of uyo - Uyo 2003 to 2006 Skills python 3 (1 year), Active Directory, Linux, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, Security (4 years) Certifications/Licenses MCITP Present CompTIA Security+ Present Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pg2j84xdibu9po7t Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jfznt6m-jpbhmisq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Citrix server (CCA)... Ongoing.    AWS... Ongoing