Cloud Systems Administrator Cloud <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Remote and Contract\Evening positions Only Dallas-Fort Worth, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cloud Systems Administrator Darling Ingredients - Irving, TX January 2019 to Present • Extensive experience in Windows Systems and Virtualization Design Implementation and troubleshooting of mission critical IT systems assignments. Deploy and upgrade systems, including hardware, software, networks, servers, and mobile devices.  • setting up hybrid cloud environments, backup and disaster recovery solutions with CommVault and migrating On-Prem servers into Cloud.  • Monitored the Server Health Status of CPU and memory, Tracked VM Resources (CPU, Memory, Disk), Managed Multiple Virtual Storage. All through LogicMonitor LMCloud datasource.  • Coordinating and applying monthly patches of all servers through SCCM and manual patches.  • Hands-on experience in Azure, AWS, OCI and OVH Cloud Services including storage, compute, Web Apps, IAMs.  • Act as the SME for all CommVault and backup related services.  • Responsible for the administration of Route53 and all administration of our Amazon AWS environment.  • Decommissioning of all servers by following specified change control and checklist for all server decommissioning.  • Wrote PowerShell scripts to automate OS and data disk copy from different regions and subscriptions and build VMs with managed disks.  • Work on team implementing OKTA with HCM and on-prem Active Directory. Systems Administrator Life Care Services - Dallas, TX February 2017 to Present • Sole IT administrator providing day-to-day Windows and network administration & support for all 6 LCS communities including the corporate office in the DFW area.  • Maintaining, monitoring, and administering network based services: Emails, user accounts through Active Directory, DHCP/DNS, Print services and other technologies.  • Handle installations, deployments and on-going maintenance of all Windows Systems. Also responsible for OS builds and deployment of new desktops, laptops and printers.  • Responsible for implementing operating system enhancements that will improve the reliability, performance and security of the system. This includes removing, adding and reconfiguring switches, access points, UPS and PDUs, and other peripheral network devices.  • Configured ILO on all servers at our 6 locations.  • Perform repairs and troubleshoot various issues both hardware and performance related issues.  • Work with Senior Systems Administrators implementing all new technologies and system upgrades.  • Maintain, monitor, and troubleshoot windows software deployments (i.e. Bitdefender Antivirus, Java upgrade, LCS Matrix, etc.) through LabTech. This includes setting up tasks and writing PowerShell scripts to automate processes.  • Responsible for all move, adds and changes in all communities and Dallas corporate office including cable runs.  • Member of the group overseeing administration of all communities' information security protection plans and configuration to meet HIPAA standard and PCI compliance.  • Write Shell snippets to automate processes and query switches, servers and applications like Active Directory.  • Maintain and modify group policy objects to meet security standards.  • Responsible to provide guidance, training, complete problem resolution and recommend purchases of all things IT related. User Account Analyst Shearman & Sterling LLP - New York, NY October 2015 to February 2017 • Oversee day-to-day activities of the Account Management group including access to applications and other resources, making sure compliance and protocols are followed.  • Use PowerShell scripts to automate Active Directory requests including group creations, adding and removing users from group.  • Administer Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange Server.  • Member of the Account management team responsible for the complete onboarding of new employees and consultants.  • Write and maintained documentation of new hire processes, governance and protocol to gain different accesses within the company's environment.  • Keep security records, noting all changes, upgrades and modifications using Varonis.  • Perform cross platform audits of Active Directory (AD) objects and user permissions.  • Manage User Accounts, Service Accounts and security groups in Active Directory (Creation, Deletion, Permissions, and Remote Access).  • Collect various data from AD using PowerShell scripts for departmental usage including manuals and reports including data for audit purposes.  • Use Remedy tickets to track progress and enter updates to have on going record of case activity till resolution is reached and ticket closed.  • Create/modify user accounts, security groups, and distribution lists to protect company proprietary information.  • Maintain terminated user's or practice group mailboxes on hold due to litigation or other reasons.  • Handle user account transfers from one field site to another moving client data to different servers, to ensure user accessibility.  • Microsoft Exchange administration including managing of mailboxes retention and retrieval.  • Manage shared folder creation and access.  • Control external accesses into the company's environment using SecureLink.  • Develop Organizational Units (OU) in AD and managed user security with group policies. IT Support Analyst (Consultant) Smart Decision (EmblemHealth) - New York, NY July 2014 to October 2015 • Second-line IT support receiving requests via telephone, ticketing application, e-mail, and walk-ins from both EmblemHealth employees and outside vendors for technical assistance.  • Monitored, diagnosed, and resolved following issues on a daily basis  ? Internet browser related issues.  ? Mapping users to share drives and home folder (create home folder if needed). Also responsible for giving access to shared drives by adding users to AD group.  ? Troubleshooting of outlook OST and PST related issues and outlook profile recreation.  ? Resolving AD related issues including password changes, account enabling and account unlocks.  ? Troubleshooting wireless connections.  ? Mapping and remapping users to inbox they already have permission to. Request access for user, if needed.  ? Troubleshoot printers. Install and uninstall network printers.  ? Troubleshooting Citrix connection and VPN related issues.  • Resolved active directory related issues including account locks, enabling account and password changing.  • Wrote Powershell scripts for common issues to speed up resolution process and share with team members.  • Collected and created trouble tickets for different issues and analyze issues, resolve or escalate them, and track tickets to completion. Systems Support Group One Trading - New York, NY November 2012 to May 2014 • Provided trader support and support of all desktops and servers running Windows 7, Windows 2008 R2, CentOS.  • Responsible for setting up new users' setup which includes  ? Setting up workstations with multiple monitors.  ? Setting up Bloomberg workstation.  ? Creating Active Directory accounts and moving users to appropriate groups  ? Setting up their Email accounts with Microsoft Exchange 2010  ? Setting up Microsoft Lync accounts.  ? Assigning new directory numbers and configuring Cisco IP phones through Cisco unified communications manager.  ? Setting up smart phones and tablets with Emails, wifi connection and VPN access.  • Responsible for move, add, changes of Traders which includes:  ? Multi-monitor arrangements on the NYSE floor  ? Setup and support Centos desktops which are used as remote heads to access their XenDesktop machines for trading and office applications  ? Provision XenDesktop catalogs for traders  • Build all servers and workstations via SCCM build and configure applications as needed.  • Responsible for complete installation of the CentOS Operating System using kickstart and also responsible for supporting users.  • Hypervisors (VMWare and Hyper-V):  ? Build and configure Hyper-v 2012 and VSphere 5.x servers  ? Provision Virtual Machines and perform all installs  ? Migrate virtual machines once VSphere hardware leases are up either via VCenter converter or configuring storage adapters & datastores if on SAN.  • Developed several PowerShell Scripts and SSRS reports including:  ? Scripts to obtain server/desktop inventory and insert data into SQL and display it via a SSRS reports  ? Scripts to enhance our auditing of machines missing key applications or broken SCCM clients, etc  ? Obtain HP Blade information and health status utilizing PowerShell  • Datacenter Responsibilities include but not limited to:  ? Tape Management  ? Racking and unracking servers and switches  ? Replace/Troubleshoot Hardware parts and perform firmware upgrades  ? Responsibility for managing all leased hardware  • Create/manage GPO's as needed Computer Technician Intern CUNY Research Foundation - New York, NY October 2011 to November 2012 • Assisted in setup of new computer equipment in classrooms and offices  • Troubleshoot hardware and software problems in conjunction with DOE Help Center and borough technology staff and install software as needed  • Configured wireless devices to access DOE network  • Led the school MouseSquad (a computer club mentoring program). Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems and Economics CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK, BROOKLYN COLLEGE - Brooklyn, NY 2013 Skills Active directory, Dns, Exchange, Dhcp, Java, C++, Sql, Hyper-v, Microsoft exchange, Microsoft windows, Windows 10, Windows 7, Windows 8, System Administrator, System Admin Certifications/Licenses Cloud Admin Professional Network+, Cloud+ AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate Microsoft MCSA Windows Server 2016 Additional Information Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows Server (2008R2, 2012R2, 2016), Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10.    Core: Active Directory, Group Policy, DNS, DHCP, Microsoft Exchange, Office 365, LabTech.    Platform Services: Hyper-v 2016, VSphere 6.x, AWS, Azure    Languages: PowerShell Script, C++, Java, SQL