Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - CACI Work Experience Systems Engineer CACI October 2017 to Present • Resolve issues that require specialized training and experience in system operations and the use of the system administration and monitoring tools for ISB (Identity Services Branch) working with DC2 technical teams, support teams, vendors, and Development and Engineering technical teams in support of the ISB mission.  • Develops security procedures for design reviews, and for operational monitoring, recording, and responding to security events, perform weekly scan and advancement for Stale Object Management.  • Execute a suite of regression tests on nights and weekends where a production deployment or data center patch has been applied to validate the production functionality is behaving as expected.  • Support Trusted Identity Exchange environment and patching of designated servers, use of Radiant Logic for Identity Integration, Information Integration and Data Management.  • Use of Microsoft Advance Threat Analytics for monitoring enterprise environment for vulnerabilities and anomalies perform trend analysis of reported incidents, use SCOM to monitor the health of the environment and be alerted to threshold exposure.  • Integrating privileged account security, identity governance, and auditing components with current architecture via CA PAM (Xceedium), create and manage privileged accounts access and permissions via Xceedium and Active Directory. Systems Analyst CACI - Washington, DC September 2015 to October 2017 • Monitor and maintaining system hardware and software for DHS components to optimize organizational efficiency.  • Implement security policies and create new user accounts, manage passwords and share folders using AD, patch network lines and activate ports.  • Install new software and manage weekly updates on existing software, backup date.  • Work escalated incident tickets, troubleshoot then document tickets and close accordingly.  • Securing systems by developing system access, monitoring, control, and evaluation: running system load/stress test, completing back-ups, and maintaining documentation.  • Create printer queue for new printers, and maintain existing printers on the network. Systems Administrator NetCentrics Corporation - Alexandria, VA August 2012 to September 2015 • Provide system support for Enterprise Information Technology Service Desk (EITSD) which provides all users with responsive and efficient access to common information and services on a daily basis for all Department of Defense (DOD), Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and the Washington Headquarters Services (WHS).  • Review incident or work order tickets initiate first response, troubleshoot then document tickets/resolutions, and escalate issue to the appropriate team for further analysis and resolution as required.  • Monitor and maintain AD, create and setup new user accounts, patch network lines, activate ports.  • Establish system specifications as directed by management; analyze workflow, access, and information.  • Maintain system performance by performing system monitoring system and analysis, and performance tuning: troubleshooting system hardware, software, networks and operating and system management systems.  • Securing systems by developing system access, monitoring, control, and evaluation: running system load/stress test, completing back-ups, and maintaining documentation. IT Support Specialist ValidaTek, Inc - Arlington, VA April 2011 to August 2012 • Provide IT support for DOS, and Creative Information Technology, Inc. remotely and onsite for end-users.  • Review incident or request tickets assign them accordingly initiate first response to end-user, troubleshoot then document tickets/resolutions, escalate issue to the appropriate team for further analysis and resolution as required.  • Monitor and maintain AD, create and setup new user accounts and workstations, and Cisco VOIP lines for users, patch network lines for DOS, and Creative Information Technology, Inc.  • Knowledgeable with IBM, DELL, HP, TOSHIBA laptops and desktops on trouble shooting hardware and OS (XP/windows 7).  • In-depth experience with MS office Suites from installation and trouble shooting and or being able to explain it to end-users on how to use it. Skills Active Directory, Powershell, SCCM, System Administrator Additional Information • Active Directory  • PKI support  • Powershell Scripting  • LDAP  • Windows Server 2008, 2008 R2, 2012  • SharePoint  • DataArmor, Symantec, McAfee, BitLocker    • SCOM  • Microsoft SCCM  • CA PAM (Xceedium)  • Microsoft Advanced Threat Analytics  • Radiant Logic  • Trusted Identity Exchange  • AppAuth- Application Authentication System