IT Systems Administrator/Project Specialist IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Project Specialist IT Systems Administrator/Project Specialist - The RADCO Companies Atlanta, GA Work Experience IT Systems Administrator/Project Specialist The RADCO Companies - Atlanta, GA November 2012 to Present Created Radco's first in-house IT department to help the grow company from 25 people to 500, including taking over all IT needs for over 10,000 apartment units across the U.S. that Radco owns and manages.    ? Daily tasks to ensure all technology is working seamlessly.  ? Maintained iPads for room scheduling, conference room PCs and projectors for meetings, and all video and audio systems.  ? Ran updates and maintenance patches on our servers, VMs, and local machines.  ? Made sure there are no issues within SharePoint, O365, or Exchange server.  ? Purchased and maintained all hardware and software for corporate office and properties.  ? Computers, laptops, tablets, printers, switches, firewalls, modems, routers, APs, servers.  ? Worked with 3rd party vendors to help manage and maintain various services.  ? Managed phone system.  ? Physical phones, phone software and service.  ? Mitel platform.  * Set up new users, extensions, voicemails, call forwarding, etc.  * Troubleshooted all phone issues.  ? Managed O365 and SharePoint infrastructure.  ? Maintained a lot of turnaround on the property level, so had to keep up with permissions and group changes.  ? Worked with other departments to ensure onboarding process is efficient.  ? Created, managed, and maintained new users either in O365 or on-prem AD with the appropriate info, groups, permissions.  ? Created and maintained signatures for all onsite employees using CodeTwo program.  ? Frequent onsite property visits.  ? To be proactive instead of reactive, enjoyed traveling to different properties to talk with the staff and make sure all tech is working properly.  ? Projects including rolling out new copiers, computers, and other IT accessories across all properties for standardization.    ? Help desk  ? In charge of all related IT issues through our help desk system.  ? First to touch tickets and distribute them amongst respective departments.  ? Worked to complete issues in a timely fashion with exceptional customer service.  ? Set up new computers on different platforms  ? Windows 10 system config/imaging  ? Azure AD  ? Local Domain Education Athens Technical College - Athens, GA August 2010 to December 2011 Georgia Perimeter College - Dunwoody, GA August 2009 to May 2010 Indiana University - Bloomington, IN August 2006 to December 2007 Skills Excellent communication skills (Less than 1 year), Highly organized (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (6 years), MS Office (Less than 1 year), networking (Less than 1 year), self directed (Less than 1 year), SELF-DIRECTED (Less than 1 year), SharePoint (6 years), VERY ORGANIZED (Less than 1 year), Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator Additional Information SKILLS    Experienced in all computer, phone, and tablet Operating Systems.  Proficient in various software programs, including MS Office, Office 365, SharePoint, Azure AD.  Knowledgeable in networking hardware.  Capable of self directed work as well as in a team.  Excellent communication skills, including in person, over the phone, email, and throughout various social media platforms.  Highly organized and task based work ethic.