Sr. Systems Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Systems Administrator - Alchemy Systems Austin, TX Work Experience Sr. Systems Administrator Alchemy Systems - Austin, TX January 2018 to Present Primary Linux Middleware SME for clustered Jboss and tomcat SaaS platforms supporting several large restaurant management companies. Primary on call engineer supporting 24/7, always up platform, consisting of Vmware Centos and Windows VMs running in Rackspace Dedicated and Managed Cloud environments.  Other duties and responsibilities:  * Participate with DevOps and QA teams in regularly scheduled software and database patches, and updates. Coordinate load and penetration testing.  * Perform OS and Application patching for all systems.  * User provisioning/key management in Active Directory, FreeIPA, OneLogin.  * Interface with vendors like Rackspace for hardware provisioning, firewall management, and specialized cloud configurations.  * Write system automation configurations and scripts using Puppet, bash, and Powershell to support all environment life cycles. Sr. Middleware Engineer, Middleware Eng. Team TX Workforce Commission - Austin, TX May 2014 to August 2016 Provided primary support for JBoss EAP 6, Redhat EWS (apache) web servers and Websphere systems and clusters running RHEL 5/6 and AIX operating systems. Assist development and project teams with capacity planning, JVM heap tuning, dump analysis, performance analysis and general troubleshooting of existing and projected systems, following ITIL and Agile methodology.  Provide secondary support for Active Directory and Office365 Windows infrastructure, including LDAP integration with *NIX systems. Technical Services Manager IBM - Austin, TX July 2012 to July 2013 Provided support for IBM Premium pSeries clients. Personally responsible for 4 Enterprise accounts worth over 6 million annually. Assisted clients in proactively identifying and addressing known AIX support and upgrade issues, as well as providing a clear escalation path to management/development in supporting high priority issues.  Other Duties and Responsibilities:  Supported the 1-800-IBM-SERV Premium Services phone queue. Created, escalated, and worked problem tickets (PMRs) for all premium customers, as required. Premium service included; performance analysis with recommendations to alleviate bottlenecks, crash dump troubleshooting, system configuration issues, etc. Sr. Systems Administrator - Contractor ACS/Xerox - Austin, TX March 2012 to June 2012 Worked as part of a transition team for ACS/Xerox to assess, plan, and provide scope for the Xerox takeover of IBM's State of Texas contract. Worked on revising SLA contracts as directed by management. Worked with Capgemini and DCS (Data Center Services) on improvements to service and support. Sr. Systems Engineer The Home Depot, Austin Technology - Center, TX 2007 to July 2011 Administer and maintain 12,000+ AIX, HPUX, and Linux corporate servers supporting 2100+ Home Depot Retail Centers. Systems include IBM pSeries systems running AIX 5.x, 6, and 7 in virtualized partitioned configurations using VIOS 2.2, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.x, VMware ESX/vSphere, EMC Symmetrix and other enterprise class SAN disk sub- systems. Root level support for a variety of back-end systems such as DB2, Oracle, Informix, WAS, SAP, Tivoli Storage Manager, e.g.. Education Administration & Project Management Center Operations Skills Active Directory, Linux, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, Powershell, Red Hat Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) January 2012 to January 2017