Datacenter Technician II - Amazon, Oregon Datacenter Technician II - Amazon, Oregon Datacenter Technician II - Amazon, Oregon Kennewick, WA Network /Windows Administrator    To obtain a position with a progressive organization who provides opportunities to utilize acquired skills and knowledge in the Information Technology Field. To apply my knowledge and ability in a position as a Network/Windows Administrator. To be challenged, and career oriented with a progressive company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Datacenter Technician II - Amazon, Oregon January 2018 to May 2018 Provided operational support of the Eastern Oregon Data Centers. Responsible for day to day incident management of servers, networking equipment, project work and capacity management.    • Responsible for troubleshooting various Linux server issues such as: console, booting, customer specified, hardware monitoring, power supply failure, drive sub- system, intermittent and connectivity problems.  • ISO test server to determine cause of failure which may intel replacing Memory, CPU's, Power supply, SATA/SAS cables, Network cards, Cavium, Risers, Fans and Motherboards.  • Use KVM (keyboard, video, mouse) switch to verify server boots to correct image, verify console IP and run Linux commands.  • Troubleshot single and multimode fiber such as: replacing fiber cable, connectors, or optics at the switch, patch panel or WDM (Wave Dense Multiplexing).  • Cleaned fiber ends, optics, test light levels and perform loopback test to determine point of failure.  • Perform loopback test on fiber ends, switch port, and optic to determine operational status and point of failure.  • Performed storm rack audits verify all spare switches on rack and in operational status and count is correct, replacing any if missing.  • Executed Power Supply Audit prior to power switch by verifying each rack has primary and secondary power to each device and labeling them accordingly.  • Use PSU (power supply) test to test power supply, and Fiber Optic test light level, transmit and receiving power, or optical loss. Systems Support Analyst Summit Brokerage - Boca Raton, FL June 2017 to January 2018 Provided back-end support for system services, keeping records, maintaining systems and network. Administered executive and second level support to advisors and clients in all locations. Collaborated and coordinated upgrades and projects for the company.  • Responsible for supporting with an assortment of desktops, laptops, servers, switches, printers, and mobile devices. Ensuring resolution of hardware/software related technical issues throughout the company and remotely.  • Utilized Windows Utility tools such as VNC, and GoToAssist for troubleshooting.  • Responded to customer issues by utilizing Spiceworks ticketing system  • Managed printers on a print server by adding new printers, assigning IP address, adding required drivers, and setting user printing profiles.  • Active Directory Administrator managing user profiles, group policies, permissions, and organizational units.  • Trained users on new applications and software programs.  • Use FTP server to upload and transfer files to ftp server.  • Office365 Administrator: Email migration, SMTP, email archiving, setting email attributes, encrypting email, assigning appropriate licenses, and tenant administration.  • Encrypt clients and advisor's laptops and desktops with Dell Data Encryption  • Performed software/applications installs, configurations, and upgrades.  • Troubleshoot server, applications, software, Office 2010, 2013 & 2016, and network issues.  • Configured user emails on desktop, laptop, and mobile devices using POP, IMAP, or SMTP protocol.  • Member of Disaster Recovery Team- Was sent to Atlanta prior to Hurricane Wilma to maintain business continuity.  • Collaborated with senior IT co-workers to migrate user's PCs from Windows 7 to Windows 10. Network Administrator ProMedical IT - Boca Raton, FL March 2016 to June 2017 Responsible for the implementation and maintenance of computer network systems for small medical offices. Key responsibilities include setting up hardware, troubleshooting networks, handling equipment inventory, and preparing documentation. Responsible for local IT projects for expansion.  • Worked with Autotask ticketing system to remedy customer issues such as printing, device configurations, software/application, scanner, desktops, or other end devices.  • Troubleshoot TCP/IP networks issues such incorrect IP, device configurations, traffic priority, wireless, bandwidth and connectivity.  • File server management of files storage, setting permission levels for each file and folder such as read-write.  • Managed printers on a print server by adding new printers, assigning IP address, adding required drivers, and setting user printing profiles.  • Accomplished cable management run cat5e cables, and punch down cables on patch panel and cat5 jacks according to T-568A/B standards.  • Responsible for setting up network switches, wireless devices, workstations, scanners, firewall, IP cameras, and printers.  • Trained customers on new devices, computer applications, and software.  • Configured and managed wireless access points through Cisco Meraki portal by setting alerts, IP address, channel range, SSID, and passwords.  • Used DHCP to create IP reservations, leases, and scope.  • Worked with Dell Sonic and Watchguard firewall creating access rules, policy, and IP administration.  • Troubleshoot and configure medical software such as Nextech, Netxgen, and eClinicalWorks.  • As the Office365 administrator: Assigned licenses, perform email migration, set email policies, create groups, SMTP settings, archiving and email aliases.  • Active Directory administrator on server 2012 such as managing user profiles, groups policies, permissions, and organizational units.  • Perform network upgrades, patches, fixes, and audits on workstations and endpoint devices.  • Symantec Endpoint Management Administrator- I assigned licenses across Windows and MAC PC's, and servers, created security group and policies, and managed assets and patches to increase productivity.  • Logged all network changes, device model and serial numbers, and IP information.  • Worked closely with vendors and various technical teams to get issues resolved and documented.  • I have collaborated with ISP vendors such as AT&T, Comcast, Frontier, and Windstream to increase internet speed for customer, bridge modem, port settings, onsite visit, and troubleshoot modem. Network Systems Administrator Global Response - Margate, FL September 2015 to March 2016 Responsible for over 300 users and over 50 companies in a closed center environment.    • Active Directory Administration: managed users' profiles, passwords, and group assignment.  • Gmail account setup, creating/adding users to groups and setting passwords  • Setup Dell Wyse terminals for VDI deployment  • Troubleshoot various applications, software, and hardware issues.  • Troubleshoot, diagnose, and resolve Microsoft desktop operating system and applications issues.  • Map network drives install network printers via TCP/IP or from print server.  • Used in-house ticketing system to resolve customer and user issues. Power Plant Operator US NAVY Veteran - Norfolk, VA January 1998 to April 2002 Responsible for daily operation and maintenance of all auxiliary equipment on board the USS Peterson DD 969.    • Overhauling of pumps, high pressure compressors and valve maintenance  • Fuel, Oil and Water sampling and testing.  • Conduct daily readings and pressure test on auxiliary equipment.  • Gauge Calibration on all equipment.  • Responsible for 2 8k distilling plants and one 12k reverse osmosis  • Logged daily readings of equipment  • Attended to the distilling plants for numerous hours per shift  • Performed emergency drills by military protocols and standards.  • Preserved workspace by refurbishing different rooms and areas. Education AAS ITT Technical Institute September 2013 to September 2015 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Capella University Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (2 years), TCP (1 year), TCP/IP (1 year), CISCO (1 year), DHCP (1 year), Cabling, Hardware, Linux, Datacenter, Data Center Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mramsarran Additional Information Skills/Knowledge    ? File Sever ? TCP/IP networks ? Symantec Endpoint Administrator ? Windows 7, 8, 10 & MAC ? Active Directory ? Office 365 Administrator ? Office 2010, 2013 & 2016 ? VMware ? Dell SonicWall TZ300 & 400 ? Hyper-V/Virtualization ? Linux Servers ? RDP, VNC, LogMeIn, Splashtop  ? Fiber Optics ? DNS/DHCP ? Windows Utilities  ? Print Server ? Cisco Meraki ? Citrix XenApp/XenDesktop  ? Dell Wyse Terminal ? VDI ? Telnet / SSH / Putty