Redhat Enterprise Linux Systems Administrator Redhat Enterprise Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Redhat Enterprise Linux Systems Administrator - Storage Management Laurel, MD Work Experience Redhat Enterprise Linux Systems Administrator Storage Management - Hyattsville, MD October 2015 to Present Redhat Enterprise Linux Systems Administrator with field experience in RHEL 6 and 7, Redhat server clusters, Datacenter Virtualization, VMware Workstation, VMware ESXi Hypervisor, VMware VSphere, VSphere Client, Redhat KVM Hypervisor, Security Enhance Linux, Enterprise Networking and Configuration, Storage Management.  hyattsville, MD OCT 2015 - Present  * Ghana Embassy System Migration Project: Operational objective was centered on migrating Embassy's OS from CentOS6 to CentOS7  * Part of the System Backup team in migration process and worked with stakeholders to understanding project requirements and ensure customer satisfaction upon completion  * Attend calls related to customer queries and complaints, offered solutions  * Work with team in the implementation and developing AWS EC2 instance, Amazon S3, Amazon RDS Amazon Simple DB, and Amazon Elastic Load Balancing  * Creates AWS Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) for instance RDP/SSH logon  * Apply AWS Route53 that route traffic across various regions  * Involves in configuring security group for EC2 Linux instance  * Utilize GZIP with AWS Cloud Front to direct compressed files to destination node and instance  * Involves in the migrating of Linux environment to AWS/RHEL environment  * As an administrator, setup specific IAM (Identity Access Management) profiles per groups, utilizing "AWS best practices" to secure resources with AWS based on users and groups  * Linux system administration to include systems management, backup, storage management, user management and 24/7 support of Linux testing and production environment (Red Hat Enterprise Server, Cent OS, KVM and VMware)  * At an administrative level, install and configures application and services  * Utilize ansible playbook scripting to automate and manage servers' assistance  * Install, configure and deploy system services across multiple platforms  * Monitor servers and Linux scripts regularly and performed troubleshooting steps - test and install the latest software on server for end-users  * Install new servers using kick-start installation and configuration method  * Troubleshoot and resolve software and hardware problems, interface with vendor technical support to resolve problems and work with other technical staff on supporting their needs  * Provide sudo access to privileged users  * Create and documents temporary and permanent sudo permissions on several systems for teams and vendors  * Schedule critical cron jobs that runs during non-peak hours, such as overnight, to avoid service disruption  * Responds to security alerts with risk evaluation and monitoring /report on unauthorized access attempts Linux System Administrator Chaveran Institute of Technology - Bowie, MD March 2013 to October 2015 Enterprise Linux Systems Administrator Redhat March 2013 to October 2015 with field experience in RHEL 6 and 7, Redhat server clusters, Datacenter Virtualization, VMware Workstation, VMware ESXi Hypervisor, VMware VSphere, VSphere Client, Redhat KVM Hypervisor, Security Enhance Linux, Enterprise Networking and Configuration, Storage Management. Systems Administrator/Application support Trinitech consulting Global - Beltsville, MD September 2012 to March 2013 • Knowledge of configuration management tools like Puppet.  • Participate in 24/7 on-call support personnel in debugging.  • Installing and maintaining operating system and related software products.  • Knowledge of RHEL (HA) Clustering and service Failover.  • Daily monitoring and response for UNIX and Linux servers, including application processes, file system alerts, system faults and crashes  • Installed and configured NFS  • Install and support Host Intrusion Detection System (HIDS) client.  • Create, Implement and maintain custom shell scripts for Prod, Dev, UAT and SIT environments.  • Participate in root-cause analysis of recurring issues.  • System hardening, patching and upgrade on standalone servers and production servers using 10-Recommended patch package.  • Knowledge of setting up GitHub account and installing Git Local Repos to support the DevOps team.  • Utilize kickstart for system builds/recovery.  • Maintain automation of tasks using a combination of Cron/At, Shell scripting, and configuration management system.  • Experience managing OS and application configuration.  • Implement file level security controls to protect Application from unauthorized read/write/update/delete operations.  • Experience in administering VMware Infrastructure Client 3.5 and VSphere 4.1.  • Experience with network protocols such as HTTP, DHCP, DNS and FTP, NTP, RDP etc.  • Building domains and configuring Active directory (AD) on Windows 2003, 2008 and 2012 servers.  • Creates and monitor active tickets periodically in Remedy ticketing system for any new tickets or existing ones.  • Utilized windows server Update Service to manage and deploy software patches Education B.S. in computer sciences University of Buea Skills Apache, Linux, Networking, Network file system Additional Information Skills  Linux (6 years), Network File System (5 years), Networking (3-4 years), Apache (4 years), Network and File protocols (5-6 years)    TECHNICAL STRENGTH    • Installing operating systems and configurations on linux  • Locking system/hardening  • Installing and configuring open source tools and applications  • Setting virtual systems  • Configuration system backup and restore  • Development and production    Platforms: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5/6 and 7, Fedora, Debian, Centos, Scientific Linux, X86/X64 platforms, Windows 8 and 12, KVM, VMware virtual client 3.5, VMware Infrastructure 3.5.  Hardware: HP Proliant DL385/585 G5, Dell PowerEdge (R810, R730), Blade  Monitoring: Nagios  Security: Iptables/firewall, TCP Wrapper, SELINUX