VMware/Windows Systems Engineer VMware/Windows <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer VMware/Windows Systems Engineer - INTERNAP Dunwoody, GA • 9+ years of System Administration and IT experience in multiplatform VMware, Windows, and UNIX with hands-on expertise in networking and system integration.  • Experience in building the VMware Vcentre server and managing the ESX hosts.  • Extensive experience in Installing and Configuring vCenter, VMware Vsphere (Infrastructure Virtualization suite), ESX/ESXi Server, Virtual Machines and vSphere Client.  • Experience with Data Centre Migration.  • Managing Access Control through vCenter server, Optimizing Resource Utilization, Load Balancing (VMware DRS) and ensuring High Availability (VMware HA).  • Deploying Virtual Machines (VM's) through Templates, Converting Physical to Virtual (P2V) and Virtual to Virtual (V2V) Machines.  • Experience with networking and Storage related issues.  • Experience with SAN and NAS configurations.  • Extensive experience in performing System Integration/Administration for Microsoft Windows 2003/2008/2012 Servers, Windows 7/ Windows 8, Red Hat Linux, Ubuntu and Mac O.S's.  • Experience with Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 and 2010.  • Experience in working with BlackBerry server.  • Experience with installing and configuring the Windows server update services (WSUS).  • Administration of Active Directory in Windows 2003/2008 environment. Managing Active Directory issues such as: Logon Failures, Account Lockouts, Group Policies, Network Connectivity, DNS and WINS Name Resolution, Authentication Problems, File and Printer Permissions etc.  • Experience with managing the Antivirus server.  • Installing and configuring LINUX Servers.  • Experience with Managing users and groups.  • Experience with creating Logical Volume Management and Samba share.  • Experience with installing and updating the packages in LINUX with YUM and RPM.  • Experience in ITIL Driven controlled environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience VMware/Windows Systems Engineer INTERNAP - Dunwoody, GA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Build\Repair\Manage 2100 Windows Virtual Machine Servers via VSphere ESXI 5.1\4.1  • Serve as a primary point of contact and/or escalation for Windows and VMWARE related build issues, and requests for services  • Build\Repair\Manage 1500 Physical Servers via HP hardware  • Windows/Wintel 2008 R2/2012 physical and virtual builds and management  • Physical to Virtual (P2V), and Virtual to Virtual (V2V) migrations in ESXi 5.5 VCenter  • Windows and Linux (OVA/OVF)VM builds and configuration via templates  • Develop strong customer relationships, by providing premium customer service and paying close attention to customer needs/requests.  • SOP/documentation creations, training and on-barding of new team members  • ESXi 5.5 host/ILO builds, upgrades, and configurations  • ESXi 5.5 cluster creation and configurations with HA and DRS features  • ESXi 5.5 host profile creation and management  • ESXi 5.5 Quality assurance and quality scans remediation  • ESXi 5.5 VCenter Update Management (VUM) administration  • Built and upgraded 95 ESXi Hosts on HP GEN9 hardware  • Adding ESXi 5.5 hosts to VCenter Clusters after new builds  • Snapshot removal on 55 ESXI 5.5 Hosts  • Account removal from ESXi Hosts via SQL 2012 on SQL Servers  • Work with Storage Engineers to provide SAN storage to ESX hosts  • VMNIC creations for VMotion/VMkernal for Standard Switches  • Configuration, patches/updates and Quality Assurance of Servers  • Package and Patch creation/deployment via HP Opsware  • HP ILO configuration and management via HP Intelligent Provisioning  • MCAFEE installation, configuration, and management via EPO  • Netbackup installation , configuration and management  • Creation of Change Management Request (ITIL) VMware/Windows Systems Engineer General Electric - Alpharetta, GA May 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Build\Repair\Manage 1500 Windows Virtual Machine Servers via VSPHERE ESXI 5.1\4.1  • Build\Repair\Manage 1000 Physical Servers via HP and DELL hardware  • Develop strong customer relationships, by providing premium customer service and paying close attention to customer needs/requests.  • Migration of Virtual Machines from 4.1 Clusters to 5.1 Clusters  • Physical to Virtual Server conversion/ VMotion Virtual Servers(P2V)  • Virtual Machine Server Tools and Hardware upgrades via VCENTER  • Management of ESXI Cluster Host resources including storage, memory and CPU  • Creation and management of Standard and Distributed VLAN Switches  • Migration of Virtual Machines via VMotion both hot and cold  • Operating System installs\repairs include Windows/Wintel 2000,2003, 2008 Servers  • Storage management and Configuration including SAN and local storage via RAIDs  • System monitoring and diagnostics via VCOPS and SolarWinds  • System backups and restores via IBM's Tivoli Storage Manager  • Management of monthly SPLA reports regarding Microsoft License  • Creation of Change Management Request (ITIL)  • Serve as a primary point of contact and/or escalation for Windows and VMWARE related issues, and requests for services  • Providing 24/7/365 off-hours support via on-call rotation schedule VMware/Windows Systems Engineer Net Gear Inc - San Jose, CA February 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Built over 20 Clusters, over 200 ESX hosts, built 2 Virtual Center Servers including backend SQL and VUM, NFS and SAN storage.  • Build, configure and deploy VMs and templates. Completed Physical-to-Virtual (P2V), Virtual-to-Virtual (V2V) and Virtual-to-Physical (V2P) migration of Windows NT, 2000, 2003, 2008, and 2012 as well as Linux servers from VMware, Hyper-V, Xen and legacy hardware.  • Architect, Design and implement EMC Clariion (CX, CX3, and CX4) SAN environments to ensure high availability and acceptable performance characteristics for VMware vSphere and SAN-backed applications. Experience with architecture, implementation and administration of NetApp FAS/V-Series, IBM DS-series, and Dell MD-series storage arrays.  • Hands on experience in iSCSI, NFS, and Fiber Channel protocols, Fiber Channel cabling, switching, and zoning.  • Using VMware vCenter, created DataCenter Environment by creating VMware clusters, adding ESX hosts in the clusters, and implemented HA and DRS.  • Installed and configured ESX 5.1 Servers on Blade Servers.  • Performed physical to virtual (P2V) migrations for approximately 500 physical servers utilizing VMware Converter. Installing, configuring and troubleshooting VMware View  • Performed tons of V2V Migration. Created clones and templates of Virtual Machines  • And Virtual Storage (Access Control and VMFS Datastores)  • Installing, configuring, Troubleshooting and management of ESX 4, ESXi 5 and vCenter Server 5.  • Installations of VM Ware 5.0,5.5 and 6 versions along with the Active directories, DNS and DHCP services, File servers etc.  • Expertise in maintaining the data centers and doing the data center Virtualization.  • Experienced in Configuring and tuning VSphere6 and migrating from VSphere 5.5 to latest 6.0.  • Experienced in working with the OVM, KVM and Hyper-V Hypervisors.  • Experienced in implementation, configuration, maintenance and support for NetApp filers using Data OnTap CLI and Filerview.  • Strong leadership and communication skills and working experience with customers, end users and colleagues. Demonstrated ability to work in both individual and team environments.  • Proficient in setting-up, configuring and troubleshooting storage devices like tape libraries (HP: ESL, MSL, Autoloader; StorageTek: L180, L700), RAID arrays, HP XP & EVA disk arrays, Hitachi Data Storage (HDS), Brocade switches.  • Assisted in developing plans, strategies and solutions for the design of a new stable and secure desktop, and for the migration of users and services from the current infrastructure into the new design.  • Work with ticket queue to track support issues. Accountable for routine and critical escalated problem solving.  • Implemented and managed IP Addressing; configured TCP/IP addressing on a server.  • Used DcDiag, NetDiag techniques for troubleshooting. Configured automatic updates for network clients by using Group Policy.  • Designed, planned and implemented Group Policy, delegation strategies and OU structure Created and managed Active Directory (AD) Organizational Units (OU), Group Policy Objects (GPO) users and groups.  • Exchange 2003 to 2010 migration and consolidation of 50000 mailboxes and 6.5 TBs of data for a global firm. This included a consolation of nine Exchange site to one primary site with a passive DR site, utilizing a cross site DAG, implemented on physical hardware, and Dell Compellent SAN.  • Design and consolidation of two Active Directory forests and Exchange 2003 organizations to a single Active Directory and Exchange 2010 organization of 475 mailboxes and 480 GB of data for a manufacturing company. Target environment included a cross site DAG, archiving, and retention policies deployed on VMware virtual machines and Dell EqualLogic SAN.  • Tier 3 trouble ticket resolution of Windows 2007 Exchange clusters, Blackberry Enterprise Servers.  • Experienced with DCPROMO process and configuring AD Site, OU structure, Site Link, DNS, DHCP, WINS, Global Catalog server, directory services, subnet mask, DNS forwarders, Reverse Lookup, Scavenge Stale resource records.  • Installation and rollout of 3 datacenter Veritas Netbackup 6.5 master server solutions to back up a variety of servers, developed scripts and tools to improve the backup process  • Working on Active Directory administration, accountability, security groups, distribution groups, replication, GPOs and FSMO rules, Clustering configuration and administration.  • Configured Microsoft Systems Center Configuration Manager 2007 across multiple AD Domains and Forests to manage Windows Updates, application deployments, system baselines and hardware Inventory.  • Configured Microsoft Systems Center Operations manager 2005 and 2007 to monitor and audit systems in multiple AD Domains and Forests  • Provided comprehensive customer follow-up regarding successful ticket resolutions and issues. Windows Systems Engineer Kforce Inc - New York, NY November 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Provides planning and technical support for company installations.  • Supported ongoing server consolidation to migrate physical servers to virtual environment  • Created virtual machine templates & configured sysprep files for customizing operating system deployment.  • Administered for various State Agencies on the VMware Infrastructure 4.1/4.0 ESX, ESXi, HP Servers & Cisco network devices for the various Data Centers.  • Configured and managed security permissions in virtual center management for access to virtual machines.  • Configure Radius service to authenticate wireless and VPN clients against LDAP  • Performed physical to virtual (P2V) and virtual to virtual (V2V) migrations using VMware converter.  • VMware tools upgrading and Windows patch updates.  • Provided secure delivery of hosted applications to mobile devices, including BlackBerry and Android devices  • Creating and Managing resource pools for Virtual Machine.  • Participated in the 24x7 On-call support rotation.  • Worked on Ticket process in fixing the Incident tickets in CA (Unicenter Help Desk) in 24x7 environments.  • Configuring a segregated iSCSI network solely communication between the virtual hosts and SAN units.  • Writing documentation for standard operating procedures for troubleshooting, configuring, and setting up virtual servers.    Environment: VMware vSphere 4.0 Windows 2008/2003, Active Directory, DNS, WINS, DHCP, TCP/IP, CISCO, NTFS, Dell Power Edge, IBM xSeries, HP ProLiant G3, G5 Blade Servers, IIS Servers, Engineer System Administrator Renner Brown - Princeton, NJ August 2012 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installing and configuring the VMware Vsphere.  • Installing the VMware Vcentre server.  • Maintaining the ESX hosts and upgrading the ESX hosts.  • Upgrading Vcentre server and client.  • Performing VMotion and storage vMotions.  • Creating Clusters for High Availability and Dynamic Resource Scheduling.  • Managing 2003/2008 AD server.  • Managing Microsoft Email server.  • Converting the physical machines to virtual machines and virtual machines to virtual machines by using the Vcentre standalone converter and plate spin converter.  • Monitoring alarms and managing it using Vcentre Server Notifications.  • Monitoring the health Check of a VM's.  • Experience in troubleshooting the issues related to Vcentre server and ESX hosts.  • Installing and configuring windows 2003 and windows 2008 server.  • Installing latest support packs releases and hot fixes from Microsoft by using WSUS.  • Installing and configuring Antivirus on all the servers.  • Installing and configuring Linux machines.  • Installing and updating the packages on Linux machines by using YUM and RPM.  • Monitoring the CPU utilization and disk space and memory in Linux machines.  • Experience in creating Logical Volume Manager  • Maintaining the backups and Job scheduling.  • Experience in working with BlackBerry server like creating users and deleting users and Synchronizing issues.  • Troubleshooting the issues related to storage and networking.  • Installing and configuring the apache tomcat web server.  • Installing and configuring SQL 2008.  • Worked with Network Concepts such as OSI reference model, IP protocols such as TCP/IP, IP addressing, subnets, routing protocols like OSPF, RIP, EIGRP, BGP, STP. Setup and configured various RAID 1 and RAID 5. Applied patches and upgrades to the servers. Associative Engineer New York Life Insurance - Dallas, TX February 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Migrated 650 Virtual servers from Dell to UCS Hardware successfully.  • Installed and upgraded ESXi 5.0/4.1 and 4.0 in a total of 120 ESX servers, Built 1000+ Virtual Servers and 500+ VDI's.  • Completed many vMotions activities prior to complete migrations.  • Build, configure and deploy VMs and templates and Creating, managing multiple snapshots.  • Build Windows /2008 Servers on standalone and blade servers based on application design.  • Configured VMware on clustered environment, Implemented vMotion, DRS, HA.  • Performed P2V Hot conversions using converter enterprise 4, 5 and also the P2V cold conversion using VMware Converter Boot CD.  • Completed Physical-to-Virtual (P2V), Virtual-to-Virtual (V2V) and Virtual-to-Physical (V2P) migration of 2003, & 2008 as well as Linux servers from VMware.  • Monitored all UNIX Servers for CPU utilization, Network traffic, and hard drive space and Memory  • Upgraded VMware ESX 3.5 servers to ESX 4.0, 4.1 and ESX servers 4.1 to 5.0 and updated patches for VSphere 5.0  • Participated in the 24x7 On-call support rotation.  • Analyzed and Implemented OS patches and hot fixes as well as other OS configurations and updates using Blade Logic Patch Management tool and also deploy patches using vCenter update manager.  • Assigning LUN's from storage array to ESX Server  • Configuring vNetwork Distributed switches and migrating the networks from VNetwork standard switches to vNetwork Distributed switches.  • Used CA Desk and Service Now for ticketing process on fixing Incident Reports and Change Requests.  • Installing and configuring Antivirus on all the servers.  • Engage hardware and software vendors to assist in improvement of current VMware environment and research and evaluation of the latest technologies.  • Maintaining servers in EMC storage like EMC VNX and VMAX  • Managing the Critical Server's CPU Performance using predefined utilities and Power shell scripting to ensure the production continuity Administrating production servers/network infrastructure that includes Windows administration of Domain Controllers, DNS, DHCP, Exchange 2010/2007 Mail Servers, NAS, File and print Servers, and Terminal Servers on Windows 2010/2008/2003. Education Virtual center server Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses TS/SCI clearance