Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Westminster, MD A challenging position in a professional and stable environment as a systems administrator where my abilities and experience can be fully utilized with room for growth and advancement.  SECURITY CLEARANCE: TS/SCI with full scope polygraph. Updated 2014 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Secure Innovations November 2018 to Present • Manage IT system infrastructure and any processes related to the system.  • Provide support to IT systems including day-to-day operations, monitoring, and problem resolution for all of the client problems.  • Provide second level problem identification, diagnosis and resolution of problems.  • Provide support for the dispatch system and hardware problems and remain involved in the resolution process. Sr. Systems Administrator/Engineer IV Titan December 2003 to July 2018 • Satisfied requests for Windows/Solaris desktop and Foundry network services for users within the government in accordance to service level agreements.  • Coordinated customer support activities for the installation of new or relocation of Windows/Solaris machines and associated equipment.  • Provided support for customer access to file shares, email, distribution lists.  • Evaluated factors to develop installation strategies on Foundry network devices and systems.  • Provided network maintenance services for customers on various networks in accordance to government specifications.  • Support services were tracked by Remedy then SupportIT ticket tracking systems.  • All support services were provided for users in various government buildings using an EA provided van for transporting equipment.  • Provided leadership for desktop migration effort from 3/13 - 4/14. Hardware Engineer/Windows NT System Administrator Coleman Research Corporation June 1998 to December 2003 • Provided functional and empirical analysis of designing, developing, implementing hardware systems (such as missile systems, computer networks, etc.)  • Evaluated necessary factors to determine hardware configurations and prepared system specifications.  • Analyzed information to determine, recommend, and plan layout for equipment, or modifications to existing equipment and systems that provided capability for proposed project or workload, efficient operation, and effective use of allotted space.  • Traced and documented legacy networks and performed enhancing solutions. The enhancing solutions included, but were not limited to, swapping out aging transceivers, upgrading multiport connections, removing the daisy chained multiports, installing twisted pair to ethernet converters on IBM workstations, and reacting to customer trouble tickets that have relatively common solution threads.  • Performed LAN performance studies using common analysis tools such as Network General's Sniffer and Fluke's LanMeter6xx.  • Configured, installed and maintained approximately 300 Solaris workstations to government specifications for multicast routing project.  • Wrote and updated a database and configuration procedures on all Solaris workstation installations and also wrote configuration procedures on selected networking equipment such as FORE 7000 and 8000 power hubs.  • Provided Windows NT/Windows 2000 and Icarus desktop support for information technology users within the government. Consisted of, but not limited to satisfying requests for Windows/Icarus desktop services, coordinating customer support activities, creating and ensuring compliance with service level agreements and performing quality assurance of Icarus and NT desktop support services. Network Analyst Computer Sciences Corporation May 1997 to May 1998 • Provided technical support for high-speed serial, ethernet, and FDDI wide and local area networks and networking equipment.  • Used Government Acceptance Testing (GAT Testing) on all Cisco routers, ODS I-Hubs, and NET IDNX 20/90 switches that were to be used on the Department of Defense's Global Network.  • Provided LRU (lowest replaceable unit) repair to the routers and hubs. Comms Installer Fiber Plus Incorporated May 1995 to May 1997 • Integrating and installed various cable lines throughout Federal Government facilities.  • Ran fiber and copper cable around several office complexes, terminating these cables in telephone or transport closets, frame rooms, customer's work area and communications centers.  • Tested, troubleshot and repaired all terminated cable lines in accordance to government specifications. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Internetworking Technology Strayer University September 2002 to September 2008 Associate of Applied Science degree in computer information systems Carroll Community College July 1998 to December 2001 Skills Vmware, System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory