Production Service Senior Analyst Production Service Senior Analyst Production Service Senior Analyst - Bank of America Richardson, TX • Alvin M Vando is an Adaptable, collaborative, strong team player, detail oriented, ability to multitasking Excellent verbal and written communication skills; ability to work within strict deadlines and with a wide spectrum of people; Project Leader experience. He has a Solid background in systems and software installation, user and group administration, role base access control, file transfer and sharing; competent in file systems, volume and storage management and patch management amongst others.  Alvin M Vando has a 5 years UNIX/Linux System Administrator experience in a multiplatform UNIX and Linux environment with hands-on experience in the administration and management of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 and 7, Centos 6 and with over 7 years of Linux hands on experience. Job includes Application Troubleshooting, Research user issues, Performance Monitoring, Identify and diagnose potential problems and solutions. Following applicable Escalation Matrix, Application testing, Assist with User acceptance process, Vendor Relationships, Prioritization of tasks & Cross team communication.    EXPERT SKILLS    Platform: UNIX (RHEL 6 and 7, Solaris 10, Centos 6 and 7)  Tools: Autosys, ITRS, Bob Monitor,  Programming: Shell Scripting  Volume Management: LVM and Veritas  Archiving and Compression: Tar, Gzip, Bzip  Backup: TAR, CPIO and UFSDUMP  Installations: Samba servers, and Apache web servers. Work Experience Production Service Senior Analyst Bank of America - Plano, TX March 2017 to Present 75024  • Monitor APAC, EMEA and AMRS Stock tools and applications for EOD(end of Day) and SOD(start of day) alerts and managing the errors making sure all the tools are OK before market comes up.  • Experience in ITRS monitoring the status of all services, hardware, databases and any other dependencies all in one place  • Used Autosys job automation and scheduling.  • Identifying and implementing new process within the team to increase the productivity of the team. Using Bank Of America in house tools  • Analyzed and determined priority to escalate failed jobs in a shortest possible time resolution to deliver a regular production cycle without delay.  • Bob monitor which an in house monitoring tool of Bank of America. scheduling system for Quartz to run Bob jobs  • Monitor smooth functioning and assure minimal downtime on implemented systems or procedures, such to have no negative impact to customers. UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator Trinitech Consulting INC - Beltsville, MD March 2015 to February 2017 20705.    • Building, Installing, configure servers, test and deploy RHEL 6 and 7, servers to the network.  • Hardening, Patching and upgrades (release),  • Bash shell scripts experience  • Performing, Backups including full and incremental backups using tar, cpi and ufsdump; using snapshots to backup, migrate and enlarge file systems. Expansion of mounted File Systems  • Installation and configuration of Samba servers, and Apache web servers.  • Performing multiplatform Storage management using LVM  • Monitoring and log management UNIX servers, including processes, with password recovery and performance tuning.  • Creating User accounts and Security management in Solaris 10 and RHEL 6 and 7server systems  • Disk management  • Automation tools and Unix scheduling tools  • Unix Package Management  • UNIX/ Linux Security Hardening and Monitoring  • Perform Unix/Linux Security Management and Process Management.  • Usage of virtualization technologies  • Managing Selinux  • Controlling and troubleshooting RHEL 7 Process and Service Daemon control UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator MTN Cameroon August 2012 to January 2015 • Building physical and virtual servers, securing, hardening, and introducing Solaris (10), RHEL -Linux (6, 7) and Centos (6.8, 7) servers to the network.  • Installing, patching, configuring, and live upgrades on the Solaris, RHEL and Centos platforms.  • Bash shell scripting language, ( awk, sed )  • Automating Installation With Kickstart  • Creating and expanding shares on file systems (ROOTFS, NFS, UFS, SWAP, EXT4, CIFS)  • Controlling Acces to files With ACL, permission attributes, and failed login attempts.  • Volume management with Veritas, LVM  • Storage management with NAS  • Server migration and live upgrades Education Bachelor's of Economic in Management in Economic University of Yaoundé Skills Microsoft Office, Powerpoint