Senior Business Advisor Senior Business Advisor Senior Business Advisor - Dell Technologies Cypress, TX Conroy is an enthusiastic, diligent, and conscientious individual, seeking a full-time position. He wishes to join a team where is role will help empower individuals and organizations globally to achieve more. He strives to provide proactive guidance that allows clients/ customers to consume the recommended products and services.  He is a technologist with over five years of experience in the IT field where he build relationships, provided excellent customer service, and present solutions to key stakeholders. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Business Advisor Dell Technologies February 2018 to Present • Manage a $2.6 million quarterly business while leading a small team of four to five members.  • Be an advisor to small and medium businesses and recommending ideal consumable solutions for each company.  • Provide a direct point of contact to business for all new or existing solutions. Junior Systems Administrator Prairie View A&M University - Prairie View, TX March 2013 to December 2017 and students while ensuring tasks are completed promptly even if it required working after hours.  • Build a relationship with end-user by getting to know their likes and dislike, which allowed me to provide better service while winning their trusts.  • I have provided proactive service to the researchers by updating required software on time to fix bugs and allow for a continuous research process. Junior System Administrator Jacobs Engineering Group April 2017 to August 2017 • Provided timely and efficient technical support for the team members, which allowed projects to be completed promptly.  • Took part in organizing office 365 email migration for the Dallas location, which allowed a smooth transition from Microsoft Exchange. Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Technology Prairie View A&M University - Prairie View, TX 2011 to 2017 Skills Technical support, Active directory, Networking, C++, Python, Java, Leadership skills, Microsoft office, Customer service, Coaching Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/conroy-stewart-68937138 Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fle0lyat9zxckxgl Email — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8ipygfdaicxtjcs1 Customer Focus & Orientation — Proficient August 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yrh69ij1khionhla Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • SKILLS  • Leadership Skills  • Verbal And Written Communication  • Customer Service  • Technical Advising  • Coaching  • Microsoft Office  • Active Directory  • Networking  • Technical Support  • Python  • Java  • C++