ACAS Scanning Technician ACAS Scanning Technician Systems Administrator Ragland, AL Seeking a position in Computer/ System Administration or nearest equivalent.    SUMMARY OF QUALIFATIONS    • Experience with Windows, Linux, and Virtual Machines/Servers  • OS migration experience across Windows and Windows Server OS  • CompTIA S+. N+. and Project+ Certified  • MCSA - Windows Server 2012 and Windows 8 Work Experience ACAS Scanning Technician USAF - Peterson AFB, CO November 2016 to October 2018 • Utilized Nessus Tenable to scan and identify vulnerabilities across all networks.  • Created in-depth vulnerability reports to identify key high-risk vulnerabilities and systems  • Co-ordinated scans, user access control and Security Center management across multiple sites. Systems Administrator USAF - Grand Forks AFB, ND July 2011 to October 2016 • Maintained and administered networks to include computer hardware, systems software, and all network configurations according to DISA STIG requirements.  • Administered and patched Windows systems and servers network-wide via SCCM and PowerShell.  • Maintained, distributed, and secured 10+ share drives across multimer networks using EMC SAN arrays.  • Performed data backups and disaster recovery operations via CommVault Backup solution.  • Diagnosed, troubleshot, and resolved customer network and systems problems submitted via Remedy.  • Designed, configured, and integrated new systems, servers, and services onto the network.  • Managed, maintained, and upgraded operating systems and services as Network Operations Center Assistant Manager.  • Trained junior employees in network troubleshooting, Remedy ticket process, and baseline network administration and implementation.  • Coordinated with vendors and company finance personnel to facilitate purchases.    ADDITONAL SKILLS  • Microsoft Office - Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote  • CommVault Backups Management  • BMC Remedy Ticket System  • Network EMC SAN Array Management Education Associates Degree in Information Technology Community College of the Air Force - Montgomery, AL June 2014