Associate Engineer Associate Engineer Associate Engineer - End User Computing Ewing, NJ Dedicated IT professional with many years of experience within technical support and an eagerness to learn new skills in technology. Proactive in implementing updates and solutions with minimal downtime and skilled at troubleshooting technical issues resulting in quick resolutions. Work Experience Associate Engineer End User Computing - Crum Lynne, PA November 2014 to Present • Lead tech onsite assisting users with new technology, high priority issues, complaints, and project work.  • Deploy, administer, maintain, and upgrade production workstations (virtual and physical) in the environment both remote and onsite.  • Configure, package, test and maintain desktop application software upon request.  • Create, service, and finalize tickets within ServiceNow and Remedy platforms maintaining SLAs and user satisfaction.  • Monitor security vulnerabilities on enterprise workstations to identify and remediate affected system within a timely manner.  • Responsible for deploying monthly patches via SCCM 2012 console of Microsoft and other third-party applications to assure all corporate managed workstations remain compliant with the latest updates.  • Follow change management processes to implement changes affecting multiple user workstations and sites.  • Assist users with setup, resets, and lockouts of disk encryptions in both Microsoft BitLocker and Symantec Endpoint Encryption.  • Review and test requests requiring GPO changes. Associate Engineer End User Computing - Chicago, IL December 2013 to November 2014 • Resolving high priority issues on corporate issued workstations and engaging/collaborating with other support groups when necessary.  • Efficiently resolving issues while maintaining a positive rapport with local and remote users and keeping detailed notes of resolution.  • Deployment of MS Windows Security patches to all corporate desktop/laptops via SCCM 2007 console.  • Participated as primary/secondary on-call executive support providing 24/7 technical assistance. Systems Administrator Infinity Consulting Solutions - Chicago, IL October 2013 to November 2013 • Assisted with migration of WS server 2008 to 2012.  • Assisted with Active Directory cleanup. Academic Systems Analyst DeVry Inc November 2011 to October 2013 - Oakbrook, IL    • Assisted Level I and II Help Desk teams with issues related to Citrix and other student facing environments.  • Troubleshot issues within the student facing environment regarding various applications.  • Developed queries/reports/scripts using various tools (TOAD, Discoverer, Excel, and Access) providing accurate data for user account creation purposes.  • Developed technical documentation on various system environments.  • Worked with multiple departments, vendors and consultants on various tasks/projects assuring a successful student experience.  • Managed and maintained multiple student facing Oracle servers assuring user access to databases 24/7. eLearning Systems Administrator DeVry Inc August 2008 to November 2011 - Oakbrook, IL    • Enhanced processes for Systems Support team and created account and access policies for supported environments and platforms.  • Conducted and developed training/support materials for multiple environments/platforms to ensure that support teams were up-to-date on any changes and/or new supported environments.  • eLearning System Administrator for eCollege Legacy, eCollege .NeXT, Foliotek ePortfolio, and ANGEL LMS.  • Assisted with project requirements gathering, integration and testing to assure environment was stable.  • Provisioned student and faculty access to shared and individual Oracle databases.  • Administered Web Server Environment via IIS6 on WS server 2003. PC Technician/Geek Squad Best Buy - North Riverside, IL September 2006 to October 2008 • Conducted computer diagnostics on hardware/software and recommended services necessary for repair.  • Checked-in customer units labeling make, model, serial number, warranty, accessories, and all symptoms.  • Documented all repairs and installations completed on each unit and filed within customers folder.  • Followed all closing procedures at the end of the day. iLab Support Analyst/Associate DeVry Inc August 2007 to August 2008 - Oakbrook, IL    • Provided support for students and instructors using the Citrix environment.  • Provided second level teir support support to faculty, staff, and student users of the DeVry eLearning Platform (eCollege), ANGEL, Virtual Labs and other academic computing environments.  • Assisted eLearning Admins with term set-up, course delivery, enrollments, and platform/course related issues.  • Analyzed, documented and escalated critical issues to appropriate personnel not resolved by Level 2 Support.  • Application support, provisioning, creating and maintaining webs and sub-webs for Web Development courses. Education Associate in Electronics and Computer Technology in Electronics and Computer Technology DeVry University - Chicago, IL February 2006 Skills Active directory, Admin studio, Scripting, Security, Sql, Ms office, Policy management