Linux Systems Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator - Kansys Inc Kansas City, KS Continue my growth of knowledge in networking, Linux administration, and troubleshooting.  Hardware:  Oracle Sparc; F5-BigIP LTM; Compaq Alpha; HP Servers; NetApp; Data Domain; ZFS Storage Appliance; Hitachi SAN, EMC, Nimble Storage, Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator Kansys Inc - Olathe, KS October 2016 to Present • Install, configure, maintain, update, and troubleshoot all Linux servers; both virtual and physical.  • Manage vendor relationship with Red Hat for all Red Hat licensed servers.  • Increase disk size on physical and virtual machines as needed.  • Setup, upgrade, manage, troubleshoot, and administer all aspects of VMware, Vcenter, and ESXi hosts.  • Administer  • Troubleshoot problems with virtual machines using VMWare VCenter and CLI. UNIX Systems Administrator III Landis+Gyr - Lenexa, KS January 2014 to October 2016 • Setup, configure, maintain, and troubleshoot LDOMs, Zones, other Solaris servers, and Suse Linux in production and business continuity sites.  • Administer approximately 700 Solaris, and Suse Linux servers for various applications to include customer facing applications with LDAP authentication.  • Backup Administrator to Data Domain and tape backups with Symantec Net Backups for applications and databases.  • Storage administrator for Hitachi, NetApp, Data Domain, and ZFS Storage Appliance. Systems Engineer Maryville Technologies - Overland Park, KS February 2012 to December 2013 • Setup and configure Commvault in Windows 2003 server under VMware ESX environment.  • Install, setup, and configure Oracle Ops Center and create virtual machines and LDOM for the customer on T4-1B blades.  • Install cabinets, servers, power, copper and fiber cables for various projects.  • Manage personnel from multiple companies to ensure proper infrastructure installations for customers' projects.  • Create MOPs, Cable Run Lists (CRL), and various other documentations for each project to ensure smooth installations at each site installation.  • Test network copper cables and fiber cables before and after installation.  • Perform site surveys and recommend any and all aspects of potential projects. UNIX Systems Administrator III Landis+Gyr - Lenexa, KS January 2011 to February 2012 • Setup, configure, maintain, and troubleshoot LDOMs, Zones, and other Solaris configure servers in production and business continuity sites.  • Administer over 525 Solaris 8, 9, & 10 servers for various applications to include customer facing applications.  • Manage online backup to Data Domain, and tape backups Net Backups for applications and databases.  • Install new hardware and software to upgrade/augment existing equipment and software that are end of life.  • Ensure data duplication and de-duplication runs daily for disaster recovery/business continuity. Tech Support Engineer Sprint - Overland Park, KS June 2007 to January 2011 • Single handedly perform duties and responsibilities as UNIX System Administration of Solaris Version 8 and 10, for 98 mission critical Sun servers and disk arrays to include patches, upgrades, installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting.  • Perform maintenance, configuration, and troubleshooting of sixteen (eight pairs) F5 BigIP LTM load balancers to include SSL certificates, some with BGP.  • Wrote scripts in Bash, Korn, and Perl to automate day to day operations and troubleshooting of Solaris Operating Systems, that corrected over 4 million customer handsets.  • Manage 6.5 terabytes of disk storage on a Storage Area Network (SAN) for a large Oracle Database housing over 80 million records  • Help other team members troubleshoot Solaris, AIX, Suse Linux, Windows, Red Hat, and SCO UNIX. Field Service Engineer Comverse - Wakefield, MA November 2005 to June 2007 • Install, repair, maintain, troubleshoot, and upgrade computer equipment (Windows, UNIX, and Linux) for wireless telecommunications enhanced services.  • Install, troubleshoot, modify, and upgrade SCO UNIX, Red Hat Linux, Windows 2000 Advanced Server, and Load Balancer Arrays (LBA).  • Install, operate, and perform unit maintenance on multi-functional/multi-user information processing systems and peripheral equipment and auxiliary devices.  • Perform new software installations and certification in a lab environment in preparation for production release.  • Troubleshoot automation equipment and systems to the degree required for isolation of malfunctions to specific hardware and/or software. Network Performance Specialist I Sprint - Overland Park, KS March 2004 to November 2005 • Track down chronic customer issues, test the scenario, engage the proper fix agents, and manage the issue until resolution.  • Prepare management reports by obtaining and analyzing complex statistical and technical information.  • Analyze and trend customer reporting data against network statistics and/or vendor data.  • Manage internal organizations and SMEs to investigate/resolve end-to-end chronic issues in the network. Systems Integrator III Sprint - Lenexa, KS March 2000 to March 2004 • Maintain and troubleshoot 240 SS7 Links across 56 platforms providing voicemail to over sixteen million subscribers nationwide  • Activate, Maintain, and troubleshoot approximately 1,900 T-1s providing over 45,000 simultaneous calls to voicemail.  • Create weekly outage and various trending reports for senior executives and vendor personnel.  • Train others on team to effectively diagnosis and troubleshoot issues.  • Perform tier 2 and 3 support for all voice mail operations support. Help Desk Technician Kansas City, MO January 2000 to March 2000 • Perform tier I support to end user clients.  • Create trouble tickets using Remedy software.  • Troubleshoot customer problems over the phone. Marketing Operations-Analyst Sprint - Kansas City, MO 1999 to 1999 Contractor)  • Perform research of customer accounts and initiate billing adjustments.  • Create and maintain several access databases.  • Provide level III support for Point of Sale software of Infocell and RMS.  • Troubleshoot new Point of Sale Software (RMS). 74C20 Administration Supervisor United States Army - Brussels, BE 1997 to 1999 • First line and shift supervisor for five personnel.  • Maintain all computer hardware and software configurations.  • Troubleshoot all personal computer related problems.  • Issue, change, and maintain all appropriate passwords and security codes. 74C20 System Administrator United States Army - Fort McPherson, GA 1995 to 1997 • First line and shift supervisor for ten personnel.  • Install, configure, and modify user accounts and passwords, on AT&T 3B2G to include all e-mail users.  • Ensure system integrity of UNIX operating systems were maintained.  • Maintain large Oracle database using the FM file manager, SQL and SQL plus.  • Perform daily checks of UNIX Operating system, Oracle, SQL, SQL plus, and MMDF II software. Education A.A.S. in Information Technology National American University - Overland Park, KS 2003 to 2007 Skills Aix, Apache, Hp ux, Linux, Red hat, Sco, Solaris, Unix, Ux, Ldap, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Oracle, Perl, Visual basic, Ftp, System Administrator, System Admin, Linux Administrator, Redhat, Active Directory Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SGT Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qg-czaxcbygj8dga Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1-uij7byhaosdnfr Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tllcyzpejuuwt2im Supervisory Skills: Interpersonal Skills — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to maintain productive team working relationships by identifying conflict and settling disputes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vog4lx1beqoqro0 Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hhkuidmdgfgzwvt7 Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/3shkee-jhixfq7ar Problem Solving — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pzt-ws9jbtgtgzhd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Operating Systems:  UNIX (Solaris 8-11, HP UX, AIX via SVR-4, Digital, SCO); Linux(Ubuntu, Red Hat, CentOS, Suse, Oracle EL) MS-Windows (XP - 10, Server 2008-2016)    Software:  Commvault; Oralce Ops Center; VMware; VxVM; VCS; Oracle; TCP/IP; FTP/SCP; SSH Tunneling; Apache; Squid; Perl; Ethereal; Visual Basic; MS-Office; ZFS; LDAP; LDOM; Solaris Zones; ZFS Storage