Systems Administrator // S&K Technology <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> // S&amp;K Technology Systems Administrator // S&K Technology - NASA Johnson Space Center League City, TX Systems Administrator helping to support the end users to leverage user requirements for their tasks. I am looking to obtain a position related to computers or computer related applications. Work Experience Systems Administrator // S&K Technology NASA Johnson Space Center - Houston, TX 2007 to Present The Intelligent Systems Laboratory for software and hardware integration was supported in relation to possible space hardware ideas in the area of robotics. This was done in collaboration with multiple end users in all levels of the NASA organization.    • Maintain the Intelligent Systems Laboratory for the ER division onsite.  • Solve system configuration and patching compliance with NASA rules.  • Maintain the laboratory's firewall and LAN hardware / software for maximum uptime.  • Setup new servers and workstations running Linux in compliance with NASA rules.  • Maintain the NASA Division office web pages and SharePoint content and permissions. This included setting up a login ability for security.  • Developed BASH shell, Python, Perl scripts to support the upkeep of supported Systems.  • Setup SAMBA and NFS services for users to access their files via the network.  • Support web server and site for the ER division at tommy.jsc.nasa.gov Systems Administrator NASA Johnson Space Center - Houston, TX 1997 to 2007 Support the heterogeneous computer network in an offsite and onsite office configuration at JSC NASA.    • Written and documented the security plan to NASA for the Draper computers on their network.  • Run the secondary DNS server for the field site office.  • Setup SAMBA to work with a Windows Domain server.  • One group used Apple Macintosh computers and the other half used Microsoft Windows computers. The servers were all Sun servers.  • Setup and maintained the web site www.jsc.draper.com.  • Setup Sendmail for email access via secure POP and IMAP  • Compile and debug software software in the Solaris environment in the Sun Forte and gcc environment. Technical Consultant University of Houston - Houston, TX 1996 to 1997 I worked as a front line technical support over the phone before escalating some problems to the next level higher consultants. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Houston - Clear Lake - Houston, TX June 2019 Associate in Electrical Engineering Technology/Computer Systems Houston Community College - Houston, TX December 1994 Skills Linux Administrator, System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, Linux, Red Hat, Redhat, System Admin Certifications/Licenses Network + May 2003