Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - Metrolina Greenhouses Concord, NC To secure a position in the Information Technology Administration and/or Engineering fields. Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Metrolina Greenhouses April 2018 to Present Planned and Migrated the company's email, file services and main infrastructure from the legacy outsourcing company to Office 365.  ? In change of all enterprise systems and lead architect.  ? Planned and migrated our companies HP Proliant Servers and EMC Storage systems to Nutanix Hyperconverged platform with VMware 6.5.  ? Implemented and maintained System Center Configuration Manager for the company.  ? Implemented and maintained the multisite systems using Nutanix systems and using VEEAM as the company's backup systems.  ? Implemented and maintained our Azure infrastructure and also our DR Site Recovery in Azure.  ? Assist our network team with switching, routing, Cisco ISE and Cisco Prime.  ? Implemented VEEAM One and Solarwinds Orion for monitoring.  ? Plan and Implement the Companies security best practices for End Point Users, Servers, Office 365 and 802.1x Systems Engineer III AvidXchange - Charlotte, NC December 2014 to April 2018 Office 365 Administrator using Directory Sync.  ? Configure and manage VMware 6 VCenter.  ? Infrastructure administrator for Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, NPS, Certificate Authority and other applications.  ? Deploy and manage SCCM 2012 r2 for Software updates, SCEP, Windows Patching and software deployments.  ? Support for Windows 2008 R2\ Windows 2012 r2 Multi-Forest environment.  ? Configure and maintain Cisco Iron Ports on the cloud for Office 365.  ? Management of multiple Active Directory forests.  ? Cisco AMP Administrator for end point protection. Carbon Black for server end points administrator.  ? Maintained companies Cisco Hyperflex systems with UCS Manager.  ? Maintained Cisco UCS Blade systems for our production servers. Windows Administrator III Comporium, Inc - Rock Hill, SC December 2013 to December 2014 Exchange and Lync Organizational administrator  ? Support for SharePoint 2007 and 2013  ? Infrastructure administrator for DNS, DHCP, NAP, ActiveSync, Certificate Authority and other applications.  ? Supported web development with modifying IIS configuration files and server builds.  ? Support for Windows 2008 R2 Multi-Forest environment. Systems Administrator III The Lash Group Division of AmeriSource Bergen - Charlotte, NC November 2010 to December 2013 Exchange and Lync Organizational administrator for multi-forest structure  ? Senior Active Directory Administrator for multiple forests in the organization  ? VMware Administration for multiple Data Centers in company organization.  ? Infrastructure administrator for DNS, DHCP, NAP, ActiveSync, Certificate Authority and other applications.  ? Support for Windows Clusters and Exchange DAG.  ? Support for SCOM 2007 R2 in multiple forests Systems Administrator Securities America - La Vista, NE January 2010 to November 2010 Support and maintenance for Citrix XenApp servers and Windows Clustering Solutions.  ? Support for Windows Exchange 2007 server and SharePoint systems  ? Configured and maintained Altiris software deployment services for external clients.  ? Support and maintained companies BlackBerry server systems and BlackBerry devices.  ? Supported web development with modifying IIS configuration files and server builds.  ? Support Disaster Recovery for Microsoft and third party applications. Network Engineer III Tiaa-Cref - Charlotte, NC November 2009 to December 2009 Contract)  ? Support in the Active Directory design of company's test environment to mirror production environment.  ? Inventory the companies 2000 servers for analysis on the hardware details.  ? Troubleshooting Security issues dealing with Active Directory and Certificates.  ? Setting up HP RDP software packages for server automated server deployment. Network Engineer III Volt Information Services - Charlotte, NC September 2008 to July 2009 Contract)  ? Provide phone support for Microsoft premier customers  ? Critical situation support for Windows Directory Services Platforms  ? Team collaborator for Exchange 2007 and SharePoint 2003 support issues  ? Collaborated with several platform teams that included support with Exchange for troubleshooting Installation and configuration for enterprise networks.  ? Used several debugging tools and network monitoring tools to gather data for troubleshooting multiple platforms that included Exchange, SharePoint, Active Directory and Networking platforms. Systems Engineer Central Business Office - Las Vegas, NV October 2001 to September 2008 Configured and Supported the Organizations network and systems that included 9 sites.  ? Citrix Engineer for application virtualization using a Microsoft backend.  ? Configured and managed Windows servers 2003 and 2008.  ? Configured and supported the Microsoft SQL clustering backend.  ? Installed and configured the storage systems for the organizations data. This included HP direct storage and IBM SAN.  ? Installed and Configured Cisco switches, routers and PIX/ASA firewalls. This also included setting up and configuring HP switches for POE phone systems. Education Graphics Design New York City Technical College - Brooklyn, NY September 1995 to June 1997 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp, Tcp, Vmware, System Administrator