Sr Systems Administrator Sr <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr Systems Administrator - Chenega Sierra Vista, AZ Work Experience Sr Systems Administrator Chenega - Fort Huachuca, AZ November 2018 to Present • Build, configure and maintain VMware V Sphere 6.7.  • Support Hyper-V.  • STIG all servers and workstations.  • Planning, designing, developing, and integrating network systems.  • Install Servers and Switches.  • Configuring devices and software applications.  • Build custom images of laptops, workstations and servers.  • Support CentOS, Red hat servers and workstations.  • Support Apple Workstations.  • Active directory, Group Policy.  • Test, and troubleshoot hardware and software problems.    Department of Homeland Security Customs and Border Protection Information Technology Specialist (Network/Customer Support) Brian A Terry Border Patrol Station - Bisbee, AZ March 2017 to October 2018 • Configure and Administer Avaya VoIP Systems.  • Planning, designing, developing, and integrating network systems.  • Install Servers and Switches.  • Configuring devices and software applications.  • Image Tablets, Laptops, workstations.  • Configure mobile devices such as iPhone and Android Smartphones.  • Active directory, Group Policy.  • Test, and troubleshoot hardware and software problems.  • Use Remedy Trouble ticket system    CSRA International Sr Systems Engineer United States Southern Command - Miami, FL February 2015 to February 2017 • Configure and maintain V Sphere 6.0.  • Configure and Maintain Centrix systems.  • Install and configure servers.  • Responsible for implementation, operations, maintenance, and systems administration of messaging systems.  • Create and maintain images for workstations.  • Patches, monitors, and reports compliance status of Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts. Detects, corrects, and performs damage assessments of security vulnerabilities.  • Active directory, server 2008, 2012 and exchange  • Create images using Symantec Ghost to restore drives on workstation and servers.  • Implement and Administer McAfee HBSS throughout Centrix.  • Configure and Maintain WSUS, push updates to servers and workstations. System's Engineer Six3 Systems September 2013 to January 2014 Computer Network Defense  Army Cyber, Wiesbaden Army Airfield, Germany    • Configure and maintain V Sphere 5.0.  • Configure and Maintain Splunk systems on VMware platforms.  • Install and configure servers.  • Responsible for implementation, operations, maintenance, and systems administration of messaging systems.  • Encryption technologies, enterprise anti-virus technologies and STAMIS and PKI information systems.  • Patches, monitors, and reports compliance status of Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts. Detects, corrects, and performs damage assessments of security vulnerabilities.  • Active directory, server 2008 and exchange Sr Systems Administrator BAE Systems May 2011 to September 2013 DIA at Mac Dill AFB, Jalalabad AFB, Bagdad, Iraq    • Support duties for remote sites in Afghanistan.  • Support JWICS computers, removal, configuration and installation.  • Active Directory: Create accounts; set group policies, Configure Exchange Email, Roaming Profiles  • Support, monitor, test, and troubleshoot hardware and software. problems related to the organization's LAN/WAN environments.  • Symantec Ghost to restore drives on workstation and servers.  • Maintained Server 2008  • Install and configure servers, San Storage devices.  • Support Comsec equipment, Updating Crypto Keys. Systems Administrator General Dynamics October 2010 to May 2011 DIA Camp Slayer Iraq, Bagdad, Iraq    • Tech support duties for Camp Victory and Camp Slayer (Al Faw and Perfume Palace).  • Support Thin Client computers removal, configuration and installation.  • Active Directory to add and remove users.  • Maintained Server 2008  • Maintained Exchange, added and removed mailboxes, transferred mailboxes from site to site  • Support, monitor, test, and troubleshoot hardware and software problems related to the organization's LAN/WAN environments.  • Symantec Ghost to restore drives on workstation.  • Install and configure computers, standard printers and multifunction printers.  • Use Remedy trouble ticket system. Hardware Maintenance Lead Lockheed Martin October 2007 to October 2010 US SOUTHCOM, Miami, FL    • Lead Hardware specialist for US Southcom and most DOD offices within the Miami area.  • Remote monitoring and Desktop support using workstation management tools to aid service restoration.  • Active Directory add and remove users, configure Exchange email and add GPO.  • Support, monitor, test, and troubleshoot hardware and software problems related to the organization's LAN/WAN environments.  • Configure and maintain Enterprise Vault software to all users.  • Symantec Ghost 11 to restore drives on workstation.  • Document, debug, Terminate copper and fiber cable installations. Test hardware and software releases. System Administrator/IT Director Fortune International - Miami, FL November 2002 to October 2007 • Managed several employees responsible for delivering 365/24x7 support for over 2000 users.  • Design and implementation of the companies IT infrastructure (Server and Core Network), including responsibility for disaster recovery (w/iron mountain), planning and execution during fail-over.  • Support & Configure of Exchange (w/ Enterprise Vault System) SQL, Windows Server OS (Active Directory), XP & MAC Workstations, scheduled maintenance and patch installations.  • Web Ex Support Tools, Arcserve Backup, Remote Desktop and Firebox Firewall rule-sets.  • Supported offshore programming & development departments with code rollouts and web deployments, Microsoft Beta tester. SR Help Desk / Hardware Specialist Avanti-Case Hoyt - Miami, FL December 1999 to November 2002 • Desktop support (250 users) for both PC/Macintosh, resolution of issues email (lotus notes), applications, virus protection, enforcement of group policies and special needs.  • Inventory control (Asset Management) for software, hardware and applications for the entire corporation.  • Rollout & Migration to Windows NT Server and Workstation OS's.  • Configured Citrix Meta frame server.  • Supported all production servers that handled the system critical manufacturing process. Aviation Warfare Systems Operator United States Navy Active Duty December 1994 to 1997 • Managed and 100+ personnel while performing day-to-day operations & assignments.  • Brief and debrief aircrews, filter through, organize, and relay intelligence collected during the mission in an aircraft carrier ASW Module or in a land-based ASW Operations Center. Coordinate ASW information-gathering throughout the battle group, operate various under-sea warfare and non-USW related sensor systems to extract, analyze and classify data obtained; perform specified pre-flight, in-flight and post-flight operations in a multitude of naval aircraft serving anti-surface, USW, mine countermeasures, electronic, counter-narcotics, and land and sea rescue missions performance; operate tactical support center systems to analyze and classify USW and non-USW data; assist in aircrew briefing and debriefing; and provide data base information to the Tactical Commander for use in prescribing mission objectives and tactics. Education A.S. in Networking and Security in Networking and Security Keiser University 2009 Skills System administration, Disaster recovery, Ts/sci, End user support, Disaster recovery planning, Recovery planning, Documentation Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ October 2010 to Present CompTIA Security+ January 2019 to January 2022 MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional February 2012 to Present Server 2012 Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  More than 20 years of experience in system administration, Strong background in windows servers, disaster recovery planning, end user support and documentation. Experience in supporting 1000s of desktop users in corporate to small/medium sized businesses. Currently possess a TS/SCI Clearance with CI Poly.