Assistant IT Administrator Assistant IT <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Highly motivated IT Professional Tallahassee, FL ? Information Technology professional with experience designing, installing, securing, administration, and troubleshooting LAN/WAN infrastructure. Skilled in Microsoft Windows Servers/Active Directory, virtual servers and services, IIS services, Exchange, SQL databases, Office 365, printing and peripherals, LAN/WAN devices, backup and disaster recovery, Windows workstation operating systems and customer service. Work Experience Assistant IT Administrator Gadsden County - Quincy, FL January 2013 to July 2019 Assistant Systems Administrator to the county clerk and board of county commissioners.  ? Assisted and manage the implementation and support of all Microsoft 2003, 2008, 2012r2 servers, Active Directory, Linux, Microsoft workstations, network printing, and peripherals.  ? Researched, installed and configured Unitrends backup appliance for disaster recovery. Implemented replication offsite.  ? Managed Unitrends appliance for all backup routines, recovery, replication and vaulting.  ? Covered all help desk inquires and issues for Windows 7, 8, and 10 operating systems.  ? Managed network routing and switching.  ? Balanced daily finance checkup for clerk and court payments. Systems Administrator The Sembler Company - Saint Petersburg, FL September 2003 to December 2012 Systems Administrator for a commercial development company.  ? Administration of Windows 2003, 2008 and 2012r2 servers.  ? Managed and configured active directory services.  ? Installed and managed Microsoft Exchange services and client email.   ? Configured group policies for workstation and server operations.  ? Managed third party IT vendors and renegotiated IT related services.  ? Performed application software upgrades.  ? Administered backup and restoring services.  ? Configured and supported all multi-function devices for printing, copying, scan-to-folder, and OCR functions.  ? Responsible for disaster recovery resources.  ? Supported multimedia resources for meetings, classes and video conferencing.  ? Configured and deployed Cisco\Linksys wireless solutions.  ? Designed, configured and documented user resource policies.  ? Developed a yearly IT budget covering all IT related projects and expenses and presented to the Board of Directors.  ? Configured and supported Cisco VPN devices for remote office communication.  ? Handled customer service and technical support activities for multiple locations. Consultant Precise Computers, Inc - Clearwater, FL December 2001 to September 2003 IT Consultant to health care providers  ? Managed all internal email services, and worked with a consulting team installing and supporting networks, systems and devices for independent dental companies using HIPAA compliance standards.  ? Installed Active Directory services for internal system infrastructure.  ? Performed application software upgrades for clients.  ? Created backup and restoring services for clients.  ? Configured and supported desktop printing services for all clients and internal use.  ? Installed and configured SonicWALL VPN/firewall solutions. Technical Support PATLive, Inc - Tallahassee, FL July 1997 to November 2001 Technical support representative for communication services.   ? Worked with technical support team on a multi-tiered trouble ticket system prioritizing customers and internal users with fast responses and solutions.  ? Supported all customer service workstations and communication devices.  ? Performed weekly department meetings and motivational programs.  ? Supported paging services.  ? Built white box workstations for all users.  ? Resolved customer voice mail issues.  ? Installed and managed Microsoft Exchange 5.5 email server.  ? Managed generator services.  ? Manage all backup services using Backup Exec.    Available for Travel Education Bachelor of Science in Information Studies FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY - Tallahassee, FL 2001 Skills Network Administration; (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years), Help Desk (10+ years), Work Travel (10+ years), Beekeeping (5 years), Vmware, Linux, Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, security, LAN, VPN, Cisco, Exchange, firewalls, DNS, Networking, Powershell, SQL Certifications/Licenses MCP: Microsoft Certified Professional Additional Information I'm very passionate about the outdoors and enjoy hiking, boating/fishing, construction, beekeeping, and gardening. I am able to relocate.