Exchange Administrator/Directory Services Exchange <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Directory Services Exchange Administrator/Directory Services Long Beach, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Exchange Administrator/Directory Services DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY (DCMA) 2016 to 2019 Supported 6,000+ IOS devices through the Mobile Iron Device Management Platform including migration from AirWatch MDM. Handled administration on the Active Directory team. Managed enterprise group policies for compliance with the latest DISA security technical incorporation guides.  Active Directory  • 26,000 Exchange Objects migrated to new Defense Information Security Agency' (DISA) DEE platform with minimal user disruption, allowing commissioning of 75% of DCMAs on premise Exchange infrastructure, reducing the agency footprint, and enabling data center closures.  • 6,000 IOS devices managed by transitioning VMware AirWatch to DEE's Mobile Iron Mobile Device Management solution, allowing de-provisioning of six on premise messaging servers.  • 1,500+ BlackBerry users switched to iPhone 6 devices by participating in building a new Mobile Device Management Platform based on VMWare's AirWatch and creating profiles and policies to allow for mobile device management across the enterprise, including tablets.  • 95% compliance scores achieved by addressing four Active Directory forests not DOD compliant through the review of automated/manual checks and configuration of Windows Server settings. Documentation of non-compliant settings, and the creation / modification of group policies to automate remediation.  Systems Migrations & Upgrades  • Supported DCMA in an organization-wide upgrade from Exchange 2007 to Exchange 2013 by leading the migration of all public folders from legacy databases to public folder mailboxes per the 2013 architecture.  • Maintained the Exchange 2013 24-Node Database Availability Group (DAG) configuration across Carson, California and Boston, Massachusetts, including mail relay, distribution groups, and shared mailboxes.  • Supported a massive migration to transition the Exchange infrastructure to the Defense Information Security Agency (DISA) email platform; decreasing DCMA's server footprint by 75%  • Managed agency email by utilizing the Barracuda Message Archiving appliance to perform restores and extractions for legal and compliance. Enterprise Systems Administrator MERUELO GROUP LLC 2010 to 2015 Managed IT infrastructure for clients in the construction, engineering, restaurant, and media sectors. Implemented technologies for email archival, data retention and message security. Provided tier III help desk support. Planned and executed infrastructure improvements. Authored procedures for the IT Department.  • Leveraged PowerShell scripting to migrate 125 users from Exchange 2003 to Exchange 2010 and alerted administrators of critical events.  • Configured MS Exchange 2007 from a third-party cloud service provider to Exchange 2010 on premise, leveraging Hyper V and HP iSCSI SAN while using clustering / database availability groups for redundancy.  IT Technical Support  • Migrated a construction company client with 100 users from Exchange 2003 to Exchange 2010 with linked mailboxes to preserve local domain active directory rights.  • Implemented a hardware platform (HP Servers and P2000N SAN) to host MS Exchange via Hyper V and migrated more than 500 mailboxes from a cloud provider back to on premise.  • Maintained the Active Directory structure, permissions, groups, and 20+ domain controllers and created fail-over Hyper-V Cluster using Microsoft Clustering Technology.  • Implemented Barracuda Messaging Gateway service for securing all internet email by requiring TLS and created policies triggering encryption of email and attachments based on keyword searching and heuristic filters; ensuring HIPPA compliance.  • Provided technical support and resolution for servers, email and infrastructure, monitored servers and network devices, and maintained hardware, security, and system patches on physical servers and Hyper-V Hosts.  • Oversaw backup and recovery operations using Barracuda Message Archiving Service and appliances for local and remote daily backup of databases and critical files. Enterprise Systems Administrator LARKSPUR HOSPITALITY LLC 2004 to 2010 Administered WAN and server infrastructure for 22 hotels in California and the Pacific Northwest, as well as the home office and the San Francisco-based data center. Forged superior working relationships with executive management and hotel level staff. Worked with third party vendors on routine penetration testing and security patching, including PCI Compliance for Point of Sale (POS) Systems.  Threat Management  • Managed the WAN connection topology using hardware-based VPN, disk-based backup of SQL databases over the WAN, Exchange and Active Directory administration, and Windows server maintenance.  • Relocated multiple servers to a new data center with minimal disruption to the production environment.  • Implemented threat management technologies encompassing Windows Update Server Service and cloud-based Enterprise antivirus for a large fleet of mobile workers.  • Monitored network security and payment card industry compliance through monthly intrusion testing as well as by continuously hardening servers and routers to keep current with latest data security threats.  • Deployed Cisco 1800 Series routers to multiple hotels and managed a 23-node hub and spoke VPN infrastructure with hotels, home office, and the data center, incorporating additional site to site VPNs when needed.  IT Infrastructure  • Led the IT infrastructure migration during hotel acquisitions by migrating Active Directory users and groups, installing and configuring domain controller's onsite, and overseeing network cut-overs with minimal disruption to 24x7 hotels.  • Designed, configured, and installed Gust Wireless networks at several major hotels in the San Francisco Bay area, Manhattan Beach, and Portland, Oregon.  • Handled DHCP scopes, DNS management, group policy changes, replication issues, and resolution of latency and caching issues among 25+ domain controllers in California and the Pacific Northwest.  • Configured and implemented a Microsoft Software Update Services Server (MSUS) for centralized administration and deployment of critical and recommended Microsoft updates, ensuring security patching with minimal effect on network performance while servicing 23 sites. Education Associates of Arts Degree Santa Rosa Junior College Skills Active directory, Clustering, It infrastructure, Vmware, Migrations, Security, Technical support, Microsoft Office Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mattschmeck Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  Systems Migrations Mobile Device Management Team Leadership IT Technical Support Windows Server Security Active Directory VMware AirWatch Windows Microsoft Clustering Technology Threat Management IT Infrastructure