Telecommunications Administrator/Project Manager Telecommunications <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Project Manager Telecommunications Administrator/Project Manager Marblehead, MA IT professional with strong end user/customer orientation and communication skills from background in applications  specialist and help desk roles. Particular strengths include:  • Working closely with business units/stakeholders to determine requirements and drive outcomes  • Establishing and nurturing strong vendor partnerships  • Intra & inter-departmental collaboration  • Providing in-house project leadership  • Exercising risk management and utilizing ITIL principles  • Striving for high uptime and strong disaster recovery to meet company SLAs  • Scoping, budgeting, collaborating and executing data center and office buildouts and renovations Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Telecommunications Administrator/Project Manager FRESENIUS MEDICAL CARE NORTH AMERICA - Lexington, MA November 2016 to July 2019 Oversaw installation of phone lines & phone systems (PBX) at numerous clinics across the U.S. Coordinated with real  estate team, construction PM, clinic administrators, phone vendor PM and engineer, telco providers, field techs, and network team.  • Hired to manage a challenging group of clinics and transition them off cloud-based to on-prem voice  solution  • Ability to manage multiple projects simultaneously  • Worked with onsite tech to verify remote access to PBX  • Provided voice-related help desk support & escalated to PBX/telco vendor as needed  • Managed Special Projects  o Telco provider and clinic staff liaison  o Copper to fiber back-end conversions  o Multiple line migrations from one carrier to another Infrastructure Engineer THE BAUPOST GROUP, LLC 2008 to 2016 Managed highly available Avaya and IPC turret telephony systems and Exchange on premise environment. Ordered and monitored all telephony landlines, their performance and repair. Reviewed and approved monthly telephony, mobile  carrier, landline, vendor maintenance and dark fiber invoices. Periodically performed failover testing of systems to ensure disaster recovery preparedness, optimal performance and uptime. Designed highly available systems to ensure  maximum availability.  • Strategic planner in fully redundant, multi-site Exchange 2010 email system with the goal of keeping mission  critical email always available.  • Worked closely with trades, vendors and colleagues to achieve several on-time buildouts: DR site, two Data  Centers, multiple office buildouts and renovations.  • Owned vendor management of wireless providers and deployment of devices from 2001 through 2013, then  transitioned all but invoice review & approval to Desktop Support team.  • Key member on team to bring new London office online in a three-day window.  • Developed checklist to assist in performing high quality moves, adds and changes in-house, avoiding vendor  oversights and labor charges averaging $4,000 per month.  • Cross-trained Deskside Support staff on 1st level telephony troubleshooting and developed accompanying  documentation. Applications Specialist/ Systems Administrator THE BAUPOST GROUP, LLC 2001 to 2008 Vital member on team that successfully relocated network room with minimal impact to the business.  • Saved company $14,500 per month in revamp of existing wireless provider plans.  Applications Specialist/ Systems Administrator (2001 - 2008)  Worked closely with network administrator, facilities director and general contractor on buildout of new office space as company moved from Cambridge to Back Bay. Installed, configured and physically deployed new Windows XP desktops as part of the company's move. Shadowed network administrator and assisted in supporting and periodically upgrading  Exchange environment. Provided telephony, PC, laptop, and mobile device support.  • Brought new Avaya and IPC telephone systems online as part of buildout.  • Worked closely with network administrator on conversion of Lotus Notes to Microsoft Exchange 2000.  • Participated in hot site facility buildout to provide business with additional system resiliency as well as fully equipped desks for all end-users in the event of emergency.  • Added additional corporate mobility vendor to afford end users another choice.  • Part of team evaluating the business IT needs as company grew. This led to IT splitting into four groups:  Infrastructure, Help Desk, Business Application Support, and Applications Development. Education High school or equivalent Skills Avaya, Dns, Exchange, Tcp/ip, Backbone, Dhcp, T1, Tcp, Ethernet, Isdn, Sip, Backup exec, Symantec, Circuits, Microsoft exchange, Lan, Pbx, Workstations, Pots, Ipc, Project Management, Excel, Microsoft Office Links http://linkedin.com/in/joymjolliffe