Communications Executive Vice President Communications Executive Vice President Communications Executive Vice President - Combat2College Jacksonville, FL Characterized as a skilled and savvy problem solver, with a carefully crafted reputation for a direct no-nonsense approach to generating verifiable cost savings through technology-based innovation. Seeking to acquire a position where my extensive experience can be leveraged to ensure success of an organization, while continually challenging me to further grow and expand my knowledge and capabilities.    Technologies  Applications: SAP, Ariba, Kofax Capture, Kofax KTM, Microsoft SQL Server, IBM DB2 Content Manager, IBM Websphere, Microsoft IIS, VMWare VSphere    OS Platforms: Microsoft Windows Server, Red Hat Linux, AIX Unix, OS390, OS400 Work Experience Communications Executive Vice President Combat2College - Jacksonville, FL 2012 to Present volunteer position)  • Responsible for managing a multitude of IT related tasks, social media and traditional communications related to supporting success and growth of the nonprofit. Consultant K-Tek Resourcing - Jacksonville, FL October 2015 to February 2019 • Key member of team responsible for migrating IBM DB2 Content Manager and other custom-built applications into the CVS data center.  • Supported and stabilized environments accessed by 4000+ users.  • Participated in PCI, FCC, PHI ad PII audits and provided necessary information to auditors.  • Built new Content Manager environments, AIX and Windows Server 2016, in order to migrate to version 8.5.  • Migrated additional content repositories into Content Manager.  • Developed a Disaster Recovery plan for the CM environments and successfully tested a full system recovery. Systems Engineer / Systems Analyst / Solutions Architect / Team Lead Ralph Lauren Corporation - Greensboro, NC March 2006 to October 2015 • Effectively architected, engineered, and implemented a custom enterprise digital content management solution; including multiple integrations with SAP, that demonstrated significant savings and ongoing cost avoidance in excess of $1M.  • Proven ability to partner with staff from senior executives to line-level to design cost-effective custom solutions that meet or exceed business requirements, as well as, forge partnerships with consultants, developers, and administrators to architect and implement innovative sustainable solutions on a global scale.  • Performed database administrator tasks, such as creating and updating tables using SQL on the Kofax and Content Manager databases.  • Key contributing team member engaged in the successful architecture and implementation of a Source-To-Pay solution utilizing Kofax, Ariba and SAP saving the Ralph Lauren finance teams thousands of dollars in procurement and invoicing costs. Systems Administrator Mirifex Systems - Columbus, OH September 2005 to January 2006 • Performed systems administration tasks on 25 Windows 2003 Servers and Red Hat Linux servers for the Integrated Voice Response (IVR) system at Nationwide Insurance. The system administration tasks included; user and group creation in Active Directory, and installing and upgrading the IVR software.  • Configured security settings for Apache Tomcat server running on Windows Server 2003 and Red Hat Linux.  • Configured and documented reporting for the IVR applications. Network Engineer / Systems Engineer Ohio Casualty Group March 2004 to July 2005 • Supported and maintained 200+ Windows NT/2000/2003 and Red Hat Linux servers running on the HP DL360, DL380, and DL580 server models.  • Deployed J2EE applications running on IBM Websphere 4.0 and 5.0 while troubleshooting potential issues.  • Implemented and supported the enterprise-wide Mailmax SPAM service.  • Responsible for maintenance and support of the enterprise fax solution Rightfax 8.5.  • Maintained Active Directory, DNS, and DHCP servers running on Windows 2003 Server.  • Researched and created plans for the implementation of VMWare ESX server.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Windows 2000/2003 servers with VMware GSX Server. Multiple Job Titles Ohio Casualty Group - Cincinnati, OH March 2001 to July 2005 Lotus Notes Administrator Ohio Casualty Group March 2001 to March 2004 • Led extensive effort to improve performance of the Domino servers on the OS390 Mainframe with IBM.  • Served as the technical lead to migrate Domino from OS390 to Windows 2000.  • Responsible for maintaining and supporting an R5 and Domino 6.5 environment with 3500 mail users on 20+ Windows 2000 servers.  • Created and implemented standards for the Domino servers running on Windows 2000.  • Supported and implemented in-house developed and third-party applications.  • Implemented Lotus Sametime for use by the entire enterprise.  • Setup and configured the SMTP gateway to the Internet in order to facilitate mail for all users to and from the Internet.  • Setup and configured iNotes for use by users from any Internet connection using SSL. Senior Groupware Engineer Techsoft Systems, Inc - Cincinnati, OH August 1998 to March 2001 at Procter & Gamble  • Member of team responsible for administration and maintenance of 400+ global Intranet servers, running Domino 4.63a, Domino R5 and IIS 4.0, in a Windows NT 4.0 and AIX environment.  • Assisted first and second level support with server and client issues with Notes, Netscape and Internet Explorer 5.  • Performed troubleshooting and repair of database corruption and design issues, Notes and NT access issues, and systemic Domino and NT issues.