Active Directory Admin Active Directory Admin Systems Engineer Houston, TX To be given the intellectual freedom to collaborate and apply the knowledge and leadership gained over a 19 year career in systems engineering to strengthen and prepare the companies infrastructure to be agile and flexible to meet the demands and vision for the future. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Active Directory Admin Energy Transfer - Houston, TX 2019 to Present • Manage and troubleshoot Tier 2 level tickets involving Active Directory, O365, MyID, NetIQ Directory and Resource Allocator and many other Enterprise Application systems.  • Manage ticket queue for Cyber Security team ensuring all tickets are resolved within the SLAs defined, and the associated resolution steps are documented and communicated to the user in a timely manner.  • Create documentation for the team to outline new policies or procedures to ensure consistency across the enterprise by having defined standards. Systems Administrator Calpine Corporation - Houston, TX 2018 to 2018 • Lead engineer for the overhaul of the Group Policy infrastructure to consolidate and simplify the existing GPOs and settings to minimize the footprint and allow for easier management and less administrative overhead. In addition. the implementation of Advanced Group Policy Management (AGPM) to provide a more robust audit and tracking system with associated approval workflows to ensure all changes are documented and adhere to SOX compliance.   • Assist senior level engineers with operational outages that are escalated to the Tier 3 team and resolve accordingly ensuring minimal downtime to the business groups and company.  • Participate in team meetings to review open tickets and common issues to analysis potential root causes and implement the remediation steps needed to resolve the issue. Senior Systems Administrator Cheniere Energy, Inc - Houston, TX 2015 to 2018 • Lead Active Directory engineer responsible for the implementation and design of Group Policies (GPOs), DFS, PKI Infrastructure, Internal and External DNS infrastructure.  • Upgraded the internal 2 tier PKI infrastructure from issuing certificates of is SHA1 to SHA256 to adhere to the new industry standard.  • Upgraded the external DNS infrastructure from Windows 2008 R2 to Windows 2012 R2. This task was accomplished by exporting and importing all DNS namespace configurations along with re-IP the new Windows 2012 R2 servers to reflect the same IPs as the old 2008 servers for faster external name server resolution.  • Installed and designed the ExaGrid infrastructure that was used to house all backups within Cheniere. Setup cross site replication of the data after de-duplication has taken place to ensure we are able to restore data in a disaster recovery scenario.  • Adhered to Change Control policies to ensure all changes were properly documented and discussed to the Change Board.  • Automated bulk changes within Active Directory by utilizing built-in scripts along with customized scripts using the Quest ARS application. Active Directory Engineer Exterran Energy Solutions - Houston, TX 2012 to 2015 • Tasked with building an Active Directory 2008 R2 lab that mirrors the production environment by utilizing VMware cloning that gathers the full configurations and settings that closely match the end user experience.  • Lead engineer for planning the rollout and migration plan for upgrading the Active Directory environment from 2008 R2 to AD 2012 R2. This also included identifying communication plans to notify key individuals from specific teams that will need to be involved to ensure no outages happen in those respective areas.  • Responsible for identifying tasks and establishing milestones as a team to ensure consistency and promote an active proactive nature.  • Key player in the company split that included key responsibilities in designing and implementing a new company forest and establishing a forest trust.  • In addition, the DFS, Group Policy, DNS, AD groups, OUs, etc. were implemented ensuring the overall change from users moving from one environment to a newly created environment minimizing downtime to the end user.  • PowerShell scripts were utilized via a catalog of scripts that were tested and have passed peer review to automate large changes in the environment.  • Created new servers based on standard VMWare templates and attached the EMC storage LUNs provided by the Storage team to the newly created virtual machines.  • Member of the advisory team that provided oversight and subject matter expertise for all infrastructure related changes. This helped to ensure all leads from each team were aware of all the major infrastructure changes which would promote peer review. Enterprise Architect Department of Health (APEX Systems) - Austin, TX 2011 to 2012 • Analyzed business requirements and provided designs that best adhered to the standards and requirements set forth.  • Developed risk assessments and corresponding remediation plans to any architectural changes proposed for the environment before approval was granted to execute.  • Expertise in managing complex projects that encompass processes, procedures, technology and application owners along with the allocation of resource time and utilization.  • Responsible for the overall analysis of the scope documents, risk profiles, and corresponding financials to help ensure the business was getting the best value for the proposed change.  • Applied expert level knowledge of the processes, technologies, and support in the business areas that communicated the need for further enhancements. Lead Systems Engineer SolarWinds Inc - Austin, TX 2010 to 2011 • Performed the role of Lead Engineer responsible for maintenance, support, design and implementation of Active Directory 2008 R2, Exchange 2010 SP2, SQL 2005/2008, SharePoint, VMware 4.1, EMC NS-120 SAN and Dell Blade Chassis  • Lead engineer/architect responsible for transitioning the current Exchange 2003 SP2 environment to Exchange 2010 SP1. The Exchange 2010 SP1 environment consists of a dispersed DAG between 2 data centers with 3 mailboxes servers. Each of the data centers contained a CAS and HUB server along with another datacenter holding CAS and HUB server for resiliency spread across 3 data centers in total.  • Lead engineer/architect responsible for upgrading the current Windows 2003 domain controllers to Windows 2008 R2. Each site was supplemented with 2 Windows 2008 R2 domain controllers for intra-site redundancy and high availability. The Active Directory domain and forest functional levels were raised to Windows 2008 R2 and the recycle bin was thus activated.  • Provided pre-sales engineering support to customers that needed advice or help to implement solutions that would increase their overall awareness of outages but also provided high availability to ensure communication would still be routed to the proper engineers.  • Expert level knowledge of SolarWinds products ranging from NPM, APM, NCM, UDT, SEUM, IPSLA, LEM and Net flow.  • Responsible for making configuration changes on any network device to enable the NNM system to start collecting flow data (Net flow, Flow, SFlow, and IPFIX).  • Proficient in gathering the customer's needs and goals by analyzing their infra structure to build a monitoring system that is not only highly available but is able to handle an outage. Exchange / Active Directory Architect Sentinel Technologies - Chicago, IL 2007 to 2008 • Responsible for the daily maintenance and operational stability of the Chicago Public School infrastructure consisting of Active Directory 2003 and Exchange 2003.  • Managed, designed and provided support for the Exchange environment that contained 12 back-end clustered mailbox servers, 6 loads balanced OWA servers and 3 bridgehead servers. Managed, designed and provided support for the Active Directory environment consisting of 3 Root level domains that provided directory services to administrative and instructional staff including students, principals and teachers.  • Ensured that Active Directory and the Exchange environment were up to date with all critical updates and definitions for Office Scan, Scan Mail and Operating Systems. Sr. Systems Engineer The Home Depot Technology Center - Austin, TX 2005 to 2007 • Lead engineer for Active Directory environment consisting of 4 forests, 6 domains, and 70+ Domain Controllers. Duties included managing a team of 4 engineers to develop Active Directory corporate standards, design, administration and support, and implementation of AD tools.  • Created logical and physical designs of projects consisting of infrastructure upgrades, rollouts and operational stability. This also included working with various application teams to develop an environment that would suit their applications for stability and future growth.  • Senior System Engineer on the Windows Server team that focuses on ways to improve IT related processes and procedures.  • Provided Tier 3 support for over 2000+ Windows based server Assisted with the engineering and deployment of new server hardware including Dell PowerEdge, Dell PowerEdge Blade servers, HP ProLiant servers, HP Integrity servers and HP ProLiant Blades using image-based technology.  • Responsible for interviewing, training and mentoring Tier 3 support staff as well as operations support staff Tier 3 Server Engineer Verizon Network Operations Center - Austin, TX 2000 to 2005 • Responsible for the design and support of infrastructures consisting of Active Directory, Citrix Metaframe, Exchange 2000/2003, DNS and DHCP.  • Designed and implemented Symantec Anti-Virus solution that targeted over 25,000 workstations and 1100 servers in the environment.  • Lead for a team of 4 individuals that provided Capacity planning, trending, perform and predict analysis and provided the data directly to IT directors. Also held monthly conference calls to discuss the major violations discovered in the enterprise  • Assisted in the migration and collapse of all legacy NT4 domains in the Verizon enterprise.  • Instrumental in designing and deploying Dell Open Manage across the enterprise providing hardware level management for all Dell PowerEdge servers. Education None in Telecommunications DeVry Institute of Technology - Addison, IL August 1998 to December 1998 High school or equivalent in General Studies Victor J Andrew High School - Tinley Park, IL August 1992 to June 1996 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), Microsoft Exchange (5 years), System Administrator (10+ years), VMWare (7 years), SCCM (1 year), Powershell (2 years), Networking (10+ years), DHCP (10+ years), SCOM (1 year), Project Management (10+ years), Azure (2 years), PKI (1 year), Windows Server (10+ years), Design (10+ years), Veeam (Less than 1 year), Operations (10+ years), Architecture (5 years), Infrastructure (10+ years), Group Policy (10+ years), LDAP (5 years), Migrations (10+ years), Identity Management (2 years), SCSM (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jasonhindberg Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) June 2003 to August 2003 Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) July 2004 to July 2004 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Microsoft Exchange 2000 / 2003 / 2007 / 2010 / 2013  Active Directory 2000 / 2003 / 2008 R2 / 2012 R2 / 2016 R2  Microsoft SQL 2000 / 2005 / 2008 R2  Windows Server 2000 / 2003 / 2008 R2/ 2012 R2 / 2016  VMware 4.x/5.x  Veeam Enterprise Backups  ExaGrid Backup Appliance  Quest Active Roles Server (ARS)  DNS / DHCP / DFS / PKI Infrastructure  Systems Center Operations Manager (SCOM)  Systems Center Configuration Manager (SCCM)  Project Management  PowerShell Management  Architecture / Implementation / Support  Azure  NetIQ Directory and Resource Allocator  O365