Sr. Systems Engineer (Cloud) Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer (Cloud) Sr. Systems Engineer - INOVALON INC Stafford, VA 18 years of professional experience in systems administration, engineering, design and I.T. management.  Summary:  • Reduction in I.T. expenditure after 2 years of employment within the energy sector.  • Improved network & systems reliability from 99.92% availability to 99.96% availability after policy implementations.  • 80% Increase in systems security and monitoring at the end of employment term.  • Prevented licensing and operating expenses in excess of $200,000 due to in-house telecommunications application  development as a Senior I.T. Specialist. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Systems Engineer (Cloud) INOVALON INC - Washington, DC 2015 to Present • Engineered the company's first AWS hosted SAS 9.4 RHEL6 Environment using AWS EC2 instances and EBS storage  • Built a new big data warehouse used to store the company's analytics data and intellectual property used in the analysis of health  care data.  • Architected and designed a Serverless website using AWS Cloud Formation templates to deploy AWS Cognito, Cloudfront, API  Gateway, Lambda, DynamoDB and S3  • Built Centrify based programs to automate the addition of SAS/Domain users on Linux systems.  • Setup SAS Environment to meeting HIPAA compliant standards  • setup the integration of multiple AWS accounts using roles-based authentication.  • Provided subject matter expertise to the firm's IT Teams on Linux distributions and configurations.  • Assisted in the network engineering/design of enterprise rollout of Cisco based Wireless & Core architecture.  • Setup a peered AWS Redshift cluster with access to the company SAS architecture and the integration of IAM user roles using  Directory Services from a separate peered account.  • Architected an internal software repository for RHEL based systems to install custom based software on system without public  network access.  • Assisted in the Management of VMware V Sphere 6 infrastructure and EMC SANs.  • Managed Enterprise level DNS BlueCat Account Manager and AWS Route53 DNS.  • Built code used by team to automate deployment of system configurations.  • Managed the migration of the company's consultancy and corporate documentation from a windows CIFS share to Alfresco.  • Engineered the role out of an Apple MacOS based image deployment and software repositories using Munki and deploy studio Systems Administrator/ Systems Engineer Dean & Company - Vienna, VA 2013 to 2015 Consolidated the company's server infrastructure to reduce the number of running servers in an effort to reduce operating  expenses and in preparation for remote migration to cloud vendor.  • Migrated radius authentication of Apple Airport devices from MacOS Open Directory to Windows Active Directory.  • Migrated file server settings and data from Apple MacOS to Windows 2012 file Server.  • Setup high available database and application servers for processing of financial data using Amazon's AWS infrastructure.  • Setup additional AWS VPC to existing infrastructure to provide Network separation of sister company's data.  • Assisted in the development of five IT policy documents to provide better guidelines in dealing with IT based security, IT  processes and IT procedures as per SEC guidelines.  • Management and monitoring of the company's VMware V Sphere 5.1 infrastructure and NetApp SANs.  • Maintained and Monitored the company's Backup2Go Server and workstation backup solution.  • Management of the company's Network Infrastructure including Fortinet Routers and HP Pro Curve Switches.  • Assisted in the migration of the company's email hosted to Google Apps for Business  • Management of VMWare V Sphere 5.1 infrastructure and NetApp SANs.  • Created bash scripts to automated downloading and processing of company's data in MySQL.  • Migrated user authentication of RHEL 5, 6 and Apple MacOS servers from Apple Open Directory to Active Directory Network Consultant (Linux), Project Engineer Dataprise, Inc - Rockville, MD 2013 to 2013 • Implementation of Windows Server Projects  • Integrated Active Directory authentication with cPanel by creating a web application using php as part of a client project  • Linux server consultation and Troubleshooting  • Windows and network security consultation  • Openstack consultation  • Virtual environment design and management.  • Network documentation and analysis Systems Administrator Dominica Electricity Services Ltd - Roseau, DM 2010 to 2013 Assisted in management of SANs, Virtual Machines and Hypervisors: VMware's ESX, V Sphere Infrastructure, Windows 2008  Server w\Hyper-V, RedHat KVM and HP-LeftHand Networks SANs.  • Supervised the reconstruction of the company's security access rights given to I.T. Staff after a security assignment and training in the United States.  • Introduced network and operating system intrusion detection systems to improve security through the use of Linux software.  • Integrated the use of a Windows Update Service server into the company's corporate network in order to ensure workstations'  operating system security meets company's standards.  • Introduced Linux as a replacement to proprietary operating platforms as a means to reduce the company's I.T. operating  expenditure.  • Implemented a complete VoIP solution for one of Domlec's Tampa, Florida parent company subsidiaries. This implementation  included the setup of a Linux provisioning server, configuration of network switches, Polycom IP phones, Encore Networks E1/T1  signal converters and the configuration of Digium's Switchvox PBX.  • Spear-headed the documentation/implementation of the department's I.T. operations manual, maintenance and system checklist  policies.  • Instituted the use of an open source Linux digital signage system to enhance the company's consumer awareness reach. I.T. Manager Dominica State College - Roseau, DM 2008 to 2009 • Started the use of public IP addressing at the institution's facilities after deliberations with the service provider at no cost to the college.  • Deployed a Cyber Café solution across campuses with the ability to host 50 computers per campus, which enabled better computer  access to the students.  • Re-implemented the use of the DSC.EDU.DM domain to achieve a greater level of online recognition as an educational institution.  • Launched the use of a new dsc.edu.dm email, document management and web services through the use of Google Apps for Education.  • Introduced paid I.T. support services to all DSC students to increase department revenue.  • Introduced appropriate documentation regarding Network Systems.  • Developed a business relationship with the college & UK based NS Optimum (an I.T. solution, sales and support services  company) whereby the college received warranty on all college computers and laptops at no cost to the college.  • Improved on DSC Microsoft Access based student grade system.  • Offered recommendations and made improvements to use of technologies used for learning after the completion of a study tour of Canadian universities. Senior I.T. Specialist SAT Telecommunications Limited - Roseau, DM 2005 to 2008 • Designed, built, and implemented a new web-based point of sale system including the migration of existing clients' data from a Microsoft Access to a MySQL database using RedHat Enterprise Linux.  • Redesigned the ISP's cable internet DOCSIS network to improve security and reliability.  • Deployed the company's second-generation SAT Instant Messenger and mail service.  • Managed Public DNS and Carrier class Telecoms services registries.  • Introduced network attached storage for backup and data storage.  • Restructured and upgraded company's Linux mail servers to accommodate a greater number of free and subscribed email clients.  • Created BASH, VBS and JAVA scripts in the development of the company's Linux and Windows based provisioning and monitoring  systems.  • Engineered the company's cable internet provisioning system which incorporated telephone, email, billing, point of sale, reporting  and customer management services using Linux open source technology preventing over $200,000 in licensing and software fees  annually.  • Engineered and implemented a custom-built VoIP solution using Asterisk which included the conversion of MGCP code to PacketCable (NCS) and the integration into a custom-built ISP's management system  • Restructured company existing internal and external network configurations.  • Directed and produced video commercials for company. Computer Repair Maintenance Technician / Assistant Technical Supervisor Premier Computing Services - Roseau, DM 2001 to 2005 • Supervision and assessment of technical staff maintenance tasks in the absence of the supervisor.  • Computer, Network, OS and Software Repairs/Maintenance. Education Certificate Of Completion in design Business Training Center College 2001 to 2003