Customer Support Engineer, Pepperdata Customer Support Engineer, Pepperdata Work Experience Customer Support Engineer, Pepperdata 2019 to Present 24x7 Support for a world-wide Hadoop customer base. Pepperdata is the leader in Application Performance Management (APM) solutions and services for big data success. Senior Customer Support Engineer 2015 to 2017 24x7 Support for a world-wide ISP customer base. Nominum is the world leader of integrated applications, using their DNS software with emerging products that help ISPs with Network performance, subscriber threat protection and campaign set up. The support group is small, consisting of very experienced IT people who know how to interact with all levels of customers technical and management staff as well as Nominum engineering and management staff. Nominum Support group is directly involved with creating correct information with regards to product documentation and installation procedures. At Nominum there are no escalation Support staff. Every Support person is the first and final point of customer escalation to resolve every issue to completion. Lead Support/Customer-Success Engineer CipherCloud - San Jose, CA 2014 to 2015 24x7 Tier 2 Support Escalation Engineer for customers of CipherCloud. Customers mainly using SalesForce (SaaS). Works closely with our Enterprise customers to troubleshoot and resolve issues to satisfaction. Responsible for the review of own individual case backlog and providing technical and case management advice to junior members of the team along with leveraging established relationships with other teams including Engineering, Sales, Consulting and outside Vendors. Plays a key role in developing and maintaining a strong customer perception of support quality, bringing customer and support engineer feedback into engineering, and working with engineers in the escalation of challenging cases. IT DevOps Technical Support Comcast - Mill Valley, CA 2010 to 2014 24x7 Level 5 support. Applications support for Development, Operations, QA, Labs, Vendors with Comcast Video products. Handle Jira tickets. Work with various groups to resolve software defects, installations, product timelines, scalability, tuning, and overall customer satisfaction. IT Manager JP Research, Inc - Mount View, WI 2008 to 2010 IT technical management, database administration, systems administration, and daily operations management. Manages technical projects that improve efficiencies, increases team-work, and reduces costs. Demonstrates strong soft skills in employee relations, oral and written communications, teamwork, and leadership. Effectively trains and manages personnel, both in the US and India, and communicates with persons of technical and non-technical backgrounds. Interfaces with senior management. UNIX Systems Administrator Wells Fargo Bank - San Francisco, CA 2005 to 2008 Technical support specialist. Provide 24x7 IT support for PayPal in Unix, Linux, and various IT functions. UNIX Systems Administrator Providian Financial - Oakland, CA 2000 to 2005 Performed 24x7 Level 2 technical support of over 400 Sun servers for development, quality assurance, and production, ensuring nearly 100% uptime of the systems. Participated in license compliance and asset management projects. Performed third-party software installations of iPlanet, Netscape, Oracle, Veritas, SSH, Jeeves, Tomcat, Apache, and Webtrends. Trained and supported junior staff. Provided detailed documentation to establish installation and support standards. UNIX Systems Administrator Disney Internet Group - Sunnyvale, CA 2000 to 2000 Supported the operations organization to maintain nearly 100% uptime of more than 300 Solaris servers. Developed online documentation of the entire server farm. UNIX Systems Administrator Acuson Corporation - Mount View, WI 1998 to 2000 Provided support to 100 staff in the software development organization using a mixed Solaris, SunOS, Lynx, and Linux client-server environment. Converted and tested company products to ensure Y2K compliance. UNIX Systems Administrator & E Mail Postmaster, Pacific Bell - San Ramon, CA 1995 to 1998 Performed day-to-day e-mail postmaster support for all company employees in a mixed Solaris and SunOS client-server environment. Supported operating systems, e-mail tools, and client-server hardware. Education Bachelor of Science in Aerospace Engineering University of Massachusetts - Amherst, MA