Sr. Systems Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Sr. Systems Engineer - Cubic Corp Bear, DE • Cleared IT professional with over 13 years of experience supporting the DOD/Intel Community. Provide hands on technical support in a wide range of areas to include critical mission operations and dev ops environments for users both CONUS and OCONUS. Work Experience Sr. Systems Engineer Cubic Corp - Fort Meade, MD November 2018 to Present • Responsible for performing UVDS Tier-III application, network, equipment and systems oversight for a DISA A-ISR Full Motion Video network.  • Use multicasting network protocols to trouble shoot system traffic issues.  • Experience using multicast, PIM SM, PIM DM, AutoRP, Static RP,SNMP, MSDP, BGP, MBGP, OSPF, MPLS, & EIGRP. VPNs, DMVPN, Video/Voice, MPEG2-TS, AAA/RADIUS, NATs, VRF configuration, QOS, DNS, DHCP, and NTP.  • Rack & Stack of Dell Web servers, Cisco switches, routers, NAS storage KG's and KVM's.  • Interact with multiple defense programs, engineers and application developers to design and implement solutions for IT and video related system architectures  • Test and evaluate new products which satisfy customer requirements  • Investigate new technology or approaches that improve system performance or reduce system costs  • Developed and execute system requirements, specification preparation, test plans, deployment and upgrade plans.  • Analysis, design, and test of IP based equipment and configurations  • Propose upgrades to existing system and network architectures  • Performed integration testing with the DevOps team.  • Manage network configuration changes.  • Maintain the system baseline.  • Troubleshoot and analyze system issues and failures.  • Resolved production problems in a deployed environment.  • Support Trident Spectre 2019 excursive. Software Configuration Manager - Contractor US Army C3T-SEC - Aberdeen, MD July 2018 to November 2018 • Configuration Management (CM) Plans and audit software change procedures, software development, software testing, and software documentation to verify compliance with software CM plans and procedures  • IA related tasking such as Analyze ACAS/SCAP scan results and Mitigate ACAS findings for DISA compliance.  • Present monthly reports to senior management and government customer.  • Work with the Information Assurance team to answer questions and respond to taskers  • Develop documentation for all new CM processes. Keep documentation up-to-date  • Software integration of COTS and Government Off-the-Shelf (GOTS) products  • Assist delivery teams, monitor vulnerabilities in dependencies, monitor logs, conduct vulnerability checks.  • Help stand up new Cybersecurity Group for the SEC-HQ by supporting all new systems that were migrated over under the new cyber group. Systems Engineer Prism Inc - Fairfax, VA September 2016 to March 2018 • Serve as Subject Matter Expert for test and production servers in a mixed RHEL and Windows environment.  • Develop bash and PowerShell test scripts, conduct testing and document test results  • Perform monthly server scans and maintenance (28 servers)  • IA related tasking such as Analyze ACAS/SCAP scan results and Mitigate ACAS findings for DISA compliance.  • Present some monthly reports to senior management and government customer.  • Work with the Information Assurance team to answer questions and respond to taskers  • Provide Tier-III support and troubleshooting for over 50000 users OCONUS and CONUS.  • Develop documentation for all new processes. Keep documentation up-to-date  • Implemented custom Splunk system monitoring  • Software integration of COTS and Government Off-the-Shelf (GOTS) products  • Configure and manage RHEL VM's via VMware 6.0  • Citrix Connection management and user troubleshooting.  • Assist delivery teams, monitor vulnerabilities in dependencies, monitor logs, conduct vulnerability checks, deploy and manage web application firewalls.  • Work to integrate with Security Operations Center (SOC) for increased monitoring.  • Apply full range of Information Assurance (IA) policies, principals, and techniques to maintain security integrity of information systems processing classified information.  • Maintain operational security posture for an information system or program.  • Create and maintain existing information system security documentation, including System Security Plan (SSP), Security Controls Matrix and/or Assessment, and Security Configuration Guide (controlled changes to the system).  • Develop and modify implementation and design documents describing how security features are implemented.  • Prepare system documentation for assessment in accordance with the Risk Management Framework (RMF) and NIST Special Publications (800-37, 800-53 and others); identify deficiencies and provide recommendations for solutions. IT Infrastructure Engineer LOCKHEED MARTIN - Cherry Hill, NJ November 2015 to July 2016 • System Infrastructure migration of RedHat Linux environment into Amazon Web Services GovCloud and C2S.  • Build and configure new RHEL nodes within AWS-GovCloud/C2S.  • Install and maintain security patches on the operational and development system, which includes but is not limited to, Red Hat Linux, VMWare, PostGreSQL and Apache web services.  • Use Docker, Puppet and CHEF in a Dev Ops lab to push updates and patches.  • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  • Perform regular security monitoring to identify any possible intrusions.  • Perform daily backup operations, ensuring all required file systems and system data are successfully backed up to the appropriate media, recovery tapes or disks are created, and media is recycled and sent off site as necessary.  • Perform regular file archival and purge as necessary.  • Create, change, and delete user accounts per request as necessary.  • Provide Tier III/other support per request from various constituencies. Investigate and troubleshoot issues.  • Repair and recover from hardware or software failures. Coordinate and communicate with impacted constituencies.  • Install new/rebuild existing servers and configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements.  • Contribute to and maintain security posture of the system in accordance with DISA Security Technical Implementation Guides, CTOs and IAVM policies.  • Apply OS patches and upgrades on a regular basis, and upgrade administrative tools and utilities. Configure/add new services as necessary.  • Upgrade and configure system software that supports infrastructure applications or Asset Management applications per project or operational needs.  • Maintain operational, configuration, or other procedures.  • Perform ongoing performance tuning, hardware upgrades, and resource optimization as required. Configure CPU, memory, and disk partitions as required. Systems Engineer/Integrator US Army C3T-SEC August 2015 to November 2015 • Support the Army C4ISR WIN-T vehicle within the SEC.  • Rack & Stack of Dell servers, Mellanox switches and NetApp FAS storage.  • Execute Army Information Assurance and Risk Management Framework Procedures.  • Coordinate with external stakeholders including but not limited to: CERDEC, ARL, DARPA, DCGS, CPCE, MC, COE, JBC-P, TCMs.  • Use TFS to provides source code management (either via Team Foundation Version Control) reporting, requirements management, project management (for both agile software development and waterfall teams), automated builds, lab management, testing and release management capabilities.  • Use Microsoft Test Manager to create multiple versions of a test, to be performed on different hardware or software configurations. Collect event logs, IntelliTrace data, video, and other diagnostic data while you perform a test. Gather diagnostic data from servers while you perform a test. Manage the assignment of server machines to testers. Quickly set up fresh test configurations by using virtual machines.  • Analyze documentation and technical specifications of any new application under deployment or consideration to determine its intended functionality.  • Create and maintain operating system and server infrastructure (Active Directory, SCCM, SCOM, etc..) templates and scripts utilizing applicable STIGS and ensuring that all vulnerabilities are addressed.  • Create and maintain all documentation associated with current production templates and scripts, as well as developmental templates and scripts that will be fielded in the future.  • Participate in the documentation effort for the Rapid Vehicle Provisioning System.  • Scope the effort for the creation of a modular and extensible framework for RVPS in order to productize the system and provide the capabilities to other fielded tactical systems. O&M System Administrator DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY - Washington, DC August 2013 to July 2015 • Monitor system processes, to include backups, mounted drives, network connectivity, and performance.  • Administer web users and hosting accounts.  • Regular application installations, configurations, and day-to-day administration.  • Troubleshoot hardware and software issues as they arise.  • Mange disk usage within a Solaris 8 and 10 environments.  • Ensure production servers maintain 100% up time for customer.  • Create user/group accounts and grant access to servers.  • Create and modify SOP's and other system documents.  • Support and test new software upgrades to the servers.  • Attend weekly and biweekly program support meetings  • Provide recommendations for improvements to the system.  • Assist in the migration of new OS updates. Systems Administrator Sotera Defense Solutions /NRO - Springfield, VA November 2010 to August 2013 • E-1 system administration troubleshooting support for an Enterprise Mission Critical Support environment.  • Use Altiris Client Services to perform workstation image deployment.  • Use VMware vcenter client to monitor and troubleshoot VM's.  • Use WSUS client to update windows environment across an enterprise.  • Perform weekly virus scans and updates using McAfee.  • Monitor Unix/Linux system processes, to include backups, mounted drives, network connectivity, and performance.  • Create, delete or modify system group and user accounts with LDAP, Active Directory or local system files, as needed.  • Troubleshoot network and operating system problems.  • Administrator Experience with Solaris 10, RedHat Linux, Citrix, Xen Desktop, and GCCS.  • Perform data center walk through of multiple routers, switches and servers.  • Install and upgrade patches and packages on Solaris 10 & Red Hat Linux.  • Use HP OpenView to monitor health and performance of systems.  • Use SANtricity to configure, manage and monitor storage systems.  • Monitor all Windows & Linux servers for performance issues and stability concerns.  • Administer web users and hosting accounts.  • Regular application installations, configurations, and day-to-day administration.  • Troubleshoot hardware and software issues as they arise.  • Working with and troubleshooting all of the following, including, but not limited to: FTP, SSH, HTTP, HTTPS, telnet, SFTP, DNS, DHCP  • Work with permissions in Microsoft Server 2003/2008 R2.  • Work with VMware vSphere V5 to manage large pools of virtualized computing infrastructure, including software and hardware. System Admin Lockheed Martin NRO/NGA - Valley Forge, PA September 2004 to September 2009 • Creator and Webmaster of a Unity Site for GS Advanced Programs Engineering team.  • Support team with Tracking Data- Full responsibility for maintaining a tracking system for TRB and CCB review used by managers and teams. Transfer the SPR/SCR data into Excel Pivot Tables and modify data to meet management needs.  • Execute Remedy Tool- Monitor service requests, change request and problem management.  • Execute LDAP Admin- Add, edit and delete entries.  • Tech Support- Take incoming calls and write up trouble ticket using the trouble ticket system. Create new user acct. using Active Directory. Execute password resets.  • Troubleshoot slow computer. Troubleshoot network logon failures. Install, Maintenance and troubleshoot printer issues.  • Execute File Transfer Protocol across classified and unclassified VAX and UNIX based networks.  • Data Migration Spec- Performed routine audits of systems and software.  • Perform system backups and restores.  • Troubleshooting any reported problems  • Offload data using a High-Performance Storage System.  • Manually up load/off load tapes from robots.  • Used Red Hat Linux running on Dell Blade servers.  • Install, upgrade, patch and configure SUN Solaris 8/9/10 on Sun Servers  • Ensured that Technical Performance Measure targets were met.  • CM Build Team- Manage change in hardware, software, firmware and documentation. Operate on Solaris 10 within a Common Desktop Environment.  • Experience in documentation and management of standard operating procedures, test plans and providing the best practices for the processes.  • Setup, configure, upgrade, maintenance, performance monitoring and troubleshooting on different UNIX platforms like Sun Solaris, Linux, AIX, Windows system software and hardware  • Daily Reports- Full responsibility for maintaining a tracking system for SPR/DRs used by managers in tracking performance on DR closure. Transfer the SPR/SCR daily reports (text) into Excel Pivot Tables for use by mangers and leads.  • Dev Cell Asset Allocation- Collect data from various groups. Entered data into excel spreadsheets and create charts in PowerPoint.  • EFIX Statistics- Convert EFIX usage emails into Excel spreadsheets. Convert data into usage charts for Power point presentation to the program.  • FOSS/COTS Process- Complete FOSS/COTS requests forms for user community.  • SPR/SCR Daily Reports- Full responsibility for maintaining a tracking system for SPR/DRs used by managers in tracking performance on DR closure. Transfer the SPR/SCR daily reports (text) into Excel Pivot Tables for use by mangers and leads.  • Physical Audit- Room by room audit of desktops (Neowares, PC's, SunRays, AIX, etc.) Collect IC tag numbers, IP address, etc. Enter data in spreadsheets. Support the Asset Reduction activity by collating PC server data.  • CM Build Training- Process SCR in the SPR/SCR Tool for Horizon software. Learn about the CM Process. Learn and use UNIX code. And Perl scripting. Education A.A in Computer Science Bucks Country Comm. College - Newtown, PA 2006 to 2008