Senior Engagement Manager Senior Engagement Manager Senior Engagement Manager - NetApp South Riding, VA Senior IT professional with 24 years of experience analyzing technical and business requirements to design and implement highly available production, development and DR solutions both on-premises and in the cloud that economically meet all requirements and deliver optimal business outcomes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Engagement Manager NetApp - Vienna, VA 2017 to Present Senior EM on the professional services team designing and selling solutions to meet our customer's most demanding business challenges.    • Analyzed requirements in RFI and RFP solicitations, developed questions that would clarify and direct future revisions of the requirements and developed responses that would demonstrate NetApp's unique ability to meet all requirements and deliver optimal business outcomes.  • Performed both technical and financial analysis of customer application and cloud strategies to develop hybrid cloud solutions based on NetApp products that economically met all requirements and maximized availability, performance and flexibility.  • Performed capacity and financial analysis of customer's on-premises storage infrastructures and developed solutions based on NetApp's Storage as a Service offering capable of meeting all requirements often at a lower cost than existing storage hardware.  • Developed Cloud and Hybrid Cloud presentation material to make it easier for customers to understand their Cloud options and for the NetApp team to sell and deliver Cloud solutions.  • Wrote BLOG articles for the NetApp sponsored site "GovDataDownload" about multiple Cloud and Hybrid Cloud topics providing guidance for both NetApp and NetApp's customers. http://govdatadownload.com/author/markmaynard Development Architect SAP SuccessFactors - Reston, VA 2016 to 2017 Development architect on the Service Delivery and Operations architecture team focused on business continuity.    • Developed the F5 load balancer and NetApp NAS architectures as well as the high-level virtual network topology for SAP SuccessFactors' proof of concept environment in Microsoft Azure which aided in proving the feasibility of running their applications in the public cloud.  • Redesigned SuccessFactors' Cisco UCS POD design for physical database servers to improve power redundancy and increase availability.  • Interviewed application experts and created dataflow and platform diagrams for all of SuccessFactors' applications filling a critical gap in product platform documentation.  • Designed and documented a comprehensive HA architecture for the database, compute and virtualization components used by SuccessFactors' applications capable of driving increased availability and lower DR failover times. Enterprise Architect NetApp - Vienna, VA 2011 to 2016 Enterprise Architect, 2014 - 2016  Systems Engineer, 2011 - 2014    Sales engineer and enterprise architect focused on educating customers, creating and delivering solutions and generating business value.    • Developed the storage architecture for HPES' implementation of the Obamacare system and worked with them to migrate the data from a competing cloud provider which enabled HPES to successfully perform the very complicated implementation and migration within the required timeframe.  • Led the implementation and tuning of the storage system to meet the Obamacare project's performance, availability and DR requirements and enabled HPES to deliver a world class solution.  • Worked with SPAWAR and a team of vendors to design and implement Navy Medical's Clinical Infrastructure Program (CIP) multi-site private cloud that allowed them to economically and reliably host applications and an Exchange email environment for over 70,000 users.  • Worked with customers to define and understand their organization's requirements so as to create and sell customized solutions based on NetApp products that enabled customer success and generated tens of millions of dollars in product sales revenue for NetApp.  • Prepared and delivered both oral and written responses to customer RFIs and RFPs. Technical Architect NEW Customer Service Companies (Asurion) - Sterling, VA 2005 to 2011 Technical Architect, 2007 - 2011  Systems Engineer, 2005 - 2007    Systems engineer and technical architect responsible for designing and implementing solutions to economically meet business requirements.    • Designed a datacenter to include floor plan, power and air-conditioning that met the functionality and availability requirements of the business with an implementation cost that was $2 million less than the design created by an external consultant.  • Developed a mathematical model and business case that demonstrated the financial benefit of implementing the datacenter design over the use of a hosting provider.  • Briefed and obtained competitive bids from three engineering firms to implement the datacenter design and then negotiated an additional $250 thousand reduction in the implementation cost.  • Evaluated, selected and integrated server and storage equipment for the new datacenter that met all business requirements and minimized the implementation cost.  • Developed a strategy to minimize the effort and business impact of migrating the data and applications from the existing datacenter to the new datacenter and then led the effort to implement that strategy.  • Designed and implemented a backup system that dramatically increased the speed and success rate of database backups and substantially decreased the effort required to refresh the development and QA databases from the production backups.  • Designed, developed software to fully automate and implemented a strategy to use database clones as the source for data warehouse ETL jobs that eliminated the performance impact the ETL jobs were having on production workloads.  • Developed and successfully implemented a comprehensive DR solution that ensured NEW's business continuity. Systems Engineer VeriSign - Herndon, VA 2004 to 2005 Lead Systems Engineer tasked with the migration of a pre-paid cellular telephone call processing and billing system.    • Led a team and its efforts to plan and implement the migration of the pre-paid cellular telephone call processing and billing system from a datacenter in Dallas Texas to a replacement datacenter in Herndon Virginia. Principal Systems Administrator AOL - Sterling, VA 1998 to 2004 Principal Systems Administrator, 2002 - 2004  Senior Systems Administrator, 2000 - 2002  Systems Administrator, 1998 - 2000    Systems administrator responsible for developing and implementing standards for server and storage configurations that maximized performance and system availability.    • Worked with the database administration team and the web/application team to develop standards for how new servers should be configured to maximize performance and best meet the needs of users.  • Developed and maintained software to automate the creation, deletion and modification of Raw devices and filesystems to support Sybase, Oracle, DB2 and Web applications on Sun and Linux servers running Veritas Volume Manager and HP servers running LVM.  • Configured the kernel and disk subsystems of Sun, HP and Linux servers running Sybase, Oracle, DB2 and web applications to maximize performance and stability.  • Regularly worked with database administrators and application experts to analyze the characteristics and performance of distributed applications to determine the causes of slow performance and provide recommendations to improve performance and scalability.  • Developed software that simulates the IO characteristics and CPU load of an application or database system to simplify the process of determining what effect a given hardware or software configuration change will have on performance.  • Regularly analyzed the performance of Sun, HP and Linux servers running database systems (including Sybase, Oracle and Redbrick), web servers and distributed applications to determine what aspect of the server’s configuration is limiting performance and how to best reconfigure the server to improve performance.  • Planned and implemented complex maintenance tasks (including storage migrations, host migrations and system tuning) on critical servers (including billing, data warehouse and marketing analysis) to improve performance and increase reliability. Systems Administrator Bell Atlantic - Silver Spring, MD 1995 to 1998 UNIX and Storage administrator on a team accountable for the availability and maintenance of Bell Atlantic’s sales negotiation, trouble reporting, telephone number provisioning and address maintenance systems.    • Provided hardware and operating system support for the 600 servers and Clariion disk arrays that hosted the environment.  • Developed software to collect, store and query information on supported servers which dramatically simplified the process of tracking equipment and the software installed on it.  • Developed software to collect and display diagnostic information from a running server that greatly reduced the time spent diagnosing and correcting issues in production.  • Provided support for the Tuxedo middleware and Sybase database portions of the application. Education Bachelor's in Management Science and Information Technology Virginia Tech - Blacksburg, VA 1990 to 1995 Skills Proposal Writing (8 years), Datacenter Design (4 years), Virtualization (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Unix Administration (10+ years), Application Architecture (10+ years), Application/Data Migrations (10+ years), Cloud Computing (3 years), Data Protection (10+ years), Data Warehousing (10+ years), Disaster Recovery (10+ years), Sales (8 years), Documentation (10+ years), Storage Systems (10+ years), Architecture (10+ years)