Data Center \ Systems Administrator Data Center \<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Data Center \ Systems Administrator Jersey City, NJ Work Experience Data Center \ Systems Administrator Blue Shield of New Jersey - Wall, NJ January 2006 to February 2014 • administered active directory for the organization, responsible for Active Directory Design, Monitoring, Sites, Replication, Subnets, DNS, DHCP, Schema, Trusts, WINS, and IT Security policies  • Identify the low performing areas of the organization and conduct a root cause analysis of the same  • Conduct gap analysis to determine the levels of variations between the planned efforts and current state of activities  • Plan and implement remedial measures to overcome the deviations and bring the projects back on tracks  • Plan and conduct training sessions for members on disaster recovery ways and methodology  • Undertake corrective measures to bring on track the failed projects, system and functions  • Supervise all the aspects of disaster recovery process and verify its smooth functioning  • Study the different business projects and systems and predict the level and nature of probable risk  • Coordinate activities with data and systems security analyst to ensure safe maintenance upkeep of organizational data, systems, departments, projects etc.  • Perform the necessary evaluations, analysis and calculations to predict the uncertainties in execution of business functions.  • Prepare a comprehensive plan considering DR plans of all departments.  • Experienced administering enterprise storage arrays, such as EMC  • Experienced administering storage replication and mirroring  • Performed day-to-day maintenance and administration of SAN-attached storage, remote and local Storage Area Networks (SAN),  • Performed day-to-day break-fix, troubleshooting storage related issues.  • Windows Server 2003 to Windows server 2008R2 Migration of Active Directory  • Installed & configured of Certificate Authority and ability to create and renew certificates for servers  • Responsible for the complete Server Environment consisting of over 2000 Windows 2000/2003/2008/2012 Servers, both physical and VM, resolving all issues and ensuring 99% uptime,  • Proficient Experience in installation, configuration and support of VMware ESX 4.x/5.x,VMware Virtual Center (VSphere) hosts and clients.  • Administration of VMware Virtual Center and virtualization services VMware DRS, VMware HA, VMotion and SVMotion.  • Converted many (P2V) physical servers to Virtual Machines using VMware vCenter Converter part of decommission legacy servers effort.  • Experience in building VMware virtual machines from templates and CD/ISO image.  • Knowledgeable on configuring hardware iSCSI and NFS storage to VMware ESXihosts from vSphere client.  • Troubleshooting of failed hardware issues including SAN drives and HP Server Hardware.  • Member of Global Active Directory Administration team, defining groups, policies, OU, user and computer accounts.  • Installed SCCM 2012 on Windows 2008 Domain Controllers and Member Servers to apply window patches and deploy operating systems.  • Installed and configured SCOM agent to manage servers, CISCO routers and storage containers.  • Managed Windows, and Active Directory in 4 locations. Installed, configured and maintained servers, both physical and virtual (VMWARE 5.1) including OS, patches (Shalik, Solarwinds, WSUS), monitoring (SCOM/HP Insight Manager/Site Scope/ Solarwinds) and backups (Commvault Simpana).  • Responsible for the Management of Symantec Endpoint Protection by keeping definition files up to date  • Assisted with all facets of Data Center equipment ordering process, including: shipping and receiving, identification of product incompatibility/availability, inventory control and provided work around solutions as needed.  • Supervised and assisted with the installation and operations duties for Data Center Facilities Installed MDF cabinets fully populated with power and networking installation, Installed RJ45, CAT6 and/or optical fiber cables on the 'ladder' and subflooring, Installed the AC/DC power PDU's with Temperature & Humidity sensors and connections in a Master/Slave configuration.  • Continued monitoring of Data Center support queues, troubleshooting and diagnosing hardware problems and exercising preventive maintenance measures.  • Produced weekly Data Center Health check Report with detailed information regarding system, heating/cooling, electrical usage and air quality control about alarms for all equipment within the DataCenter.  • Conducted data center audits: spares cabinets, rows, and hardware, fiber and patch cables and cross connects. Completed the Audit of Data Center assets inventory, tagging and scanning, receiving assets and parts from Purchase Order and inter-campus transfers.  • Developed Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity tests and procedures to be activated upon necessity.  • Led the successful implementation of ticketing system (HP Service Manager) to resolve tickets opened by internal engineering groups including server troubleshooting, new server builds and network troubleshooting.  • Implemented change control measures: Creating Change Tickets, Change Tasks, or Incident reports for documenting problems or other infrastructure changes including new installations, system reconfiguration, system replacement, failed hardware and other infrastructure related issues. Wintel Systems Administrator Johnson and Johnson - Bridgewater, NJ July 2000 to May 2012 • Member of team responsible for the maintenance of a multi campus, 5000+ Windows 2000/2003 server environment.  • Managed Active Directory including, DNS, DHCP, IIS6, MS Cluster Services,  • Performed system updates (SMS) and Anti-Virus updates (McAfee Enterprise) throughout the entire server environment  • Performed System Administrator duties including end user administration, object and other resource objects, Cluster Administration, File Server Management (including DFS) and other administrative duties as required.  • Performed break/fix tasks as required, replacing failed system boards, bios updates, drive array maintenance, Memory upgrades/replacement and other Server associated peripherals.  • Managed Virtual Servers -- Virtual Infra Client & VMware ESXi Server. Troubleshooting the VM machines using Virtual center and VMware Infrastructure client.  • Cloned and troubleshoot VM ESX hosts and guest servers including P2V migrations  • Tracked and documented production support issues  • Resolved CIM, and HP Open View generated alerts.  • Managed Production changes through release process on DEV / IT / QA / PROD.  • Responsible for the Management of the Production Support Hotline - Support for asp. .NET and Java based Applications.  • Acted as the Liaison between the various business groups and IT, communicating and translating highly technical terms into End User discernible language Level III Support Engineer Pfizer Pharmaceuticals - Morris Plains, NJ January 1998 to June 2000 • Responsible for 99.9 percent uptime of 700 + Servers, all Compaq hardware, running Novell 3.12/4.11/5.0, Windows NT 4.0/2000.  • Responsible for the nightly back up (third shift, 11pm to 7am) of 700+ servers using Arcserve IT/2000 on Compaq DAT, DLT/SDLT and TL895 backup drives.  • Creation of user accounts, objects, print queues, group policies and other administrative duties in a Windows NT/2000 Domain/Active Directory and Novell Netware 4.11/5.0 environment.  • Team member assigned to design and deploy Active Directory in conjunction with the NT domain model.  • New Server builds and maintenance (all Compaq hardware), including service packs/patches, antivirus, WINS, DNS, IP Addressing.  • Network monitoring using HP Openview and Compaq Insight Manager and NetIQ.  • Imaging and rolling out of Windows Professional/XP laptops and desktops using Norton Ghost and Microsoft SMS.  • Troubleshooting and configuring of MS Outlook and Exchange.  • Coordinating with Business Technology Managers with the specifications and ordering of new equipment.  • Provide Microsoft Office 97/2000 support.  • Provide after hour worldwide telephone support.  • Provide Executive Level Support for Corporate Headquarters.  • Provide support for Palm devices.  • Provide Client telephone support for VPN setup/configuration Via Cable modem/DSL (RSA Secure ID).  • Provide Client telephone support for Blackberry troubleshooting/setup. Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DATA CENTER, DNS, EXCHANGE