UNIX Engineer UNIX Engineer Unix / Linux System Administrator Durham, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UNIX Engineer Fannie Mae - Reston, VA October 2017 to Present Contracting through Collabera, Inc. to perform Unix System Administration initially in support of a project to re-configure several thousand Solaris, Linux, and AIX servers, LDOMs, and VMs in a mid- to high- intensity environment.     Later moved to the Unix Engineering team, contracting through Collabera, Inc. to solve problems that require a deeper understanding of Unix, more troubleshooting experience, and more experience coordinating with application teams and other infrastructure teams.    Worked several Sprints embedded with an application team as a Unix Engineering resource. Automated processes and helped execute changes across large numbers of servers more quickly. Contributed to, and learned from, various Agile processes    Activities have included:  • Configured networking, file systems, VCS clusters, CPU, Memory, and infrastructure tools including Puppet, Autosys, and Tanium on DR servers to match Production  • Wrote Unix shell scripts to automate procedures and to send out reports  • Helped other Unix Systems Administrators troubleshoot various problems  • Updated procedures and scripts to maximize team effectiveness given goals of the project, and updates to environment-wide standards for newer Linux releases  • Worked with application teams to troubleshoot as necessary for implementation across different OS releases  • Performed root-cause analyses of various problems  • Developed plan to remove an older NFS server with over 100 clients, and coordinated large Unix Support team for implementation. Wrote shell scripts to report progress.  • Developed plan to decommission an older NFS server with over 100 clients, and coordinated large Unix L2 Projects team for implementation.  • Worked several Sprints embedded with an application team as a Unix Engineering resource  • Automated processes and helped execute changes across large numbers of servers more quickly  • Learned about, and Contributed to, various Agile processes  • Managed Jira tasks  • Wrote Ruby scripts to collect configuration data to update Blueprint documentation Application Support Analyst Credit Suisse - Morrisville, NC January 2015 to July 2017 • Working in a global team providing Production Application Support for several Prime Brokerage applications, including the Trading application, Corporate Actions, Swift Gateway, Data Warehouse, and others. Support included troubleshooting performance problems, file system usage, and networking problems, on Solaris and Linux, as well as problems in Oracle, Sybase, Weblogic, Informatica, MQ, and LDAP.   • Resolved escalations from the Level-1 support team.  • Provided on-call support for critical issues.  • Provided base level IT support to less technical personnel within the business.  • Evaluated and responded to requests for technical support assistance.  • Prepared reports for management on application problems, root cause, and actions for management of risk.  • Performed troubleshooting and implemented solutions for Control-M job failures.  • Built programs to automate temporary fixes to problems when appropriate Unix and Linux Systems Administrator AvalonBay Communities - Arlington, VA April 2012 to January 2015 Created the Team's Solaris and Linux Systems Administration documentation.  Created the OS Configuration data collection scripts. The OS Configuration data collection scripts are perl scripts, that fork off child processes, each of which forks off child processes to get different configuration data for the system, sending the data back through a pipe. The master parent process waits for each of the 2nd level parent processes to write the configuration data to its own output file, then reaps them.  Implemented the collection of Solaris and Linux Performance data with a suite of perl scripts. Performed performance and capacity planning analyses.    Implemented Sun Management Center to monitor and alert on system problems, and started replacement with OpenSmart and several perl scripts.  Managed a Veritas Cluster, and created some Application Resources for PeopleSoft Application and Web Servers.  Managed NetBackup with Standard and Oracle backup types.  Created shell scripts and installed Cygwin on Windows servers for easier maintenance, and to automate stopping and restarting of PeoplelSoft Proc Schedulers by the shell scripts on Solaris servers when doing Cold Backups.  Assisted with some tasks in the administration of Oracle, and PeopleSoft Application Servers, Web Servers, and Proc Schedulers.  Provided Unix Administration support for a team installing Oracle Business Intelligence  Directly performed various duties to support Solaris and Linux servers with Oracle databases as member of 4-person team with 3 Oracle DBAs and with me as the primary Solaris and Linux Administrator. We supported 7 Oracle/Sun servers including M4000s/M3000s, V880s, and V440s, and 3 Linux VMs. We also supported StorageTek 2540 disk arrays, and 3310s and 3500s. Duties include hardware and software administration: replacing memory / cpus, installing cards, configuring Veritas filesystems, Disksuite metadevices, installing, updating and patching Solaris, managing packages/rpms and patch areas, managing system performance / capacity planning, and troubleshooting server problems.  Developed and documented procedures to compile the TpcH benchmarking tool, on servers with our standard configuration, and started running TpcH simulations to show level-of-benefit for various configurations, comparing with the Solariis configurations submitted by Oracle to the TPC website. UNIX Systems Administrator EcomNets - Washington, DC September 2011 to December 2011 Helped compile database of problems and solutions to be used for a Business Intelligence implementation. UNIX Systems Administrator U.S. Senate SAA - Washington, DC November 2008 to July 2011 Developed framework for the Team's Solaris system administration documentation, and created and made primary contributions to most of the documents themselves.    Developed general architecture for managing and querying OS Configuration data, including duplication of all data to a central repository.  Developed general architecture for managing and querying OS and Oracle Performance data with a Sun Bigadmin -recommended software package and a suite of perl scripts. Performed performance and capacity planning analyses.  Developed general architecture to monitor and alert on system problems ( those not monitored by generic tools ) with a perl script, and a security-related monitor.  Directly performed various duties to support Solaris servers with Oracle databases on contract to U.S. Senate Sergeant-At-Arms as member of 4-person team of Solaris administrators and Oracle DBAs supporting ~25 servers including 3 M4000s, several 445s, T2000s, V490s, and 480s. Duties include hardware and software administration: replacing memory / cpus, installing cards, configuring ZFS filesystems, Disksuite metadevices, installing, updating and patching Solaris, managing packages and patch areas, managing system performance / capacity planning, and troubleshooting server problems.  Developed and documented procedures to compile FileBench, a performance benchmarking tool, on servers with our standard configuration, and ran FileBench simulations to show level-of-benefit for various ZFS tuning parameters and configurations, especially for Oracle's DSYNC write behavior.  Contributed significantly to development of ZFS standards Sr. UNIX and Linux Systems Administrator Fannie Mae - Reston, VA January 2006 to October 2008 Solaris and linux systems administrator supporting 100 servers, ranging from Sun Blade servers to E6900s and several Intel, VM, and Xen servers. Also provided support and some development of a perl monitoring solution running on 4000 servers. As team lead of larger team, rationalized work flow and created a weighted priority list to optimize allocation of resources within the Team. Introduced use of Flash Archives for re-installation of blade servers after maintenance. Maintained VCS Clusters including troubleshooting behavior of customized online scripts, performed Veritas VCS Cluster failovers, managed VCS resources including Oracle RAC, performed Online DiskSuite troubleshooting and maintenance, wrote suite of scripts to augment sar performance data collection including netstat, prstat, and nfsstat data. Documented initial guidelines for use of performance data, configured swap space, performed SAN client configuration. Performed ssh troubleshooting and maintenance.  Performed complex coordination for changes when necessary, including changes with large user communities, changes where the estimation of risk needed further coordination, and changes where there was a need for multiple Teams to work together to determine what the best path forward would be. UNIX Systems Administrator IT Pros / Fannie Mae - Herndon, VA May 2005 to January 2006 Management Consulting Services    Managed solaris servers and edited/created shell scripts, perl scripts, and HTML documentation as needed for Contract-to-Perm position with Fannie Mae. UNIX Systems Administrator Freddie Mac - Reston, VA January 2004 to March 2005 Member of 20-person team of system administrators supporting ~400 servers: F15Ks, F12Ks, E10Ks, several SunFire E4810s, E3800s, 880s, and 4500s. Wrote PERL / Korn Shell / PHP / HTML code for various system administration tasks and updated on-line documentation. Maintained PHP/Apache/MySql code for user request management application. Performed hardware and software administration: replaced memory / CPUs, installed cards, configured disks and Veritas volumes, installed OS, patches, and 3rd party applicatons, including Perl modules. Helped diagnose performance problems and concerns. Helped manage jumpstart and flash archives. Developed Client/Server PERL scripts for delivery of performance information. Enhanced existing data collection Korn and PERL scripts to include F15K-specific information. The users were application developers and DBAs. UNIX System Administrator Techead Inc. / Constellation Energy Group - Baltimore, MD July 2001 to January 2004 Senior technical member of 10-person team of system administrators supporting ~200 servers: 4 F15Ks, 1 E10K, several SunFire E4810s, E3800s, 880s, 480s, 420s, 4500s, 450s, Sparc 2s, and about 40 HP servers. Duties include hardware and software administration: replacing memory / cpus, installing cards, configuring disks, Veritas volumes, Disksuite metadevices, installing OS, managing packages and patch areas, jumpstart areas, optional software install areas, troubleshooting server problems, managing Veritas NetBackup servers and unix clients, managing system monitoring with perl scripts, managing NIS+, gathering performance information and/or troubleshooting, managing system security, file systems, NFS, automounter, TCP/IP configuration, and swapspace. Duties also include helping users with shell scripting and other unix problems. The users are application developers and DBAs.  Wrote system monitor used on all sun servers, including variable scheduling for monitoring different parameters, seek-type monitoring of messages file, limiting of messages to prevent mailstorms, exceptions files for overiding some alerts, etc.  Created web-based documentation for the group and wrote server inventory system so all servers report themselves to central repository. This information used to automatically propagate changes, perform maintenance-oriented inventory, recover from DNS problems ( managed by different group ). Wrote sar-wrapper, netstat and mpstat data collectors for performance analysis of network and multi-cpu data.  Also wrote perl/expect scripts to manage different classes of systems with different root passwords without use of trusted systems ( rsh or ssh ) throughout the environment.  The perl server inventory system I wrote was a client-server model, with all hosts opening a socket on a given port to the server, sending the data stream, and closing the socket. Unix System Administrator Ajilon Consulting / Fannie Mae - Mae, WA March 1999 to June 2001 DC    Performed systems administration as part of an operational support team. Supporting 100+ sun servers: E5500s, Sparc2000s, E450s, E250s, and Sparc1000s. The systems were Firewalls, Front-End Processors, Backend Servers, NIS+ servers, NFS servers, Sybase servers, web servers, etc. The users were application developers, DBAs, Web Admins, and others. Activities included proposing updates to documentation, troubleshooting server problems, adding new applications, administering Veritas Volume Manager ( including VCS Cluster Server and VVR ), updating NIS+, troubleshooting automounter problems, administering Firewalls ( including VPNs ), installing and configuring new servers, 10 Mb/s and 100Mb/s ethernet, Sendmail administration, DNS problem resolution, Axxion HA High Availability software administration, performance troubleshooting, etc. Unix System Administrator Datagate, Inc - Baltimore, MD September 1998 to February 1999 Helped hardware CEs resolve various HP-UX System Administration issues. Helped write HP diagnostic utility using shell scripts, C, and Expect/Tkl. Helped present product to new customer and helped perform integration. UNIX System Administrator GlaxoWellcome, Inc - Research Triangle Park, NC November 1995 to August 1998 Helped with administration of 100+ servers, mostly Suns: E5000s, E4000s, E3000s, Sparc2000s, Sparc1000s, and desktops. The systems were NFS servers, Backup servers, HSM archive server, compute servers, Oracle database servers, and NIS / DNS servers.  Performed day-to-day administration of an HP T-500 Production Data Warehouse, and helped with implementation of cut-over to a Sun E10000 Data Warehouse server ( Production and Test domains ).  Helped with day-to-day administration of several Oracle Database servers.  Helped develop directory structure standards. Performed OS and software installations and upgrades.  Standardized installations of NTP, samba, and other software. Administered Sun SSA and RM6.0 arrays, and HP NIKE arrays. Introduced use of named pipes to application developers to save disk space.  Wrote scripts for automated backups with error paging ( and warnings for filesystems not configured into backups ). Helped develop guidelines for quarterly patch application with coordination with VAR and with Sun Support Engineers.  Administered Big Brother and Kingsys monitoring software, and administered NIS, automounter, and autoclient configurations. UNIX Systems Administrator Manugistics, Inc - Rockville, MD July 1995 to November 1995 Administered 9 UNIX IBM, HP, and DEC servers running AIX 3.2.5, 4.1.3, HP-UX 9.04, 10.01, OSF 3.0, and 3.2 supporting software developers and testers. Helped plan configuration of 12 UNIX IBM, HP, and DEC client workstations. Performed some OS/2 v2.1 and v3.0 administration. Developed and implemented backup strategy for UNIX servers. Performed OS installations, reconfigured HP-UX kernels. Implemented performance logging. Configured X-stations and user X-windows configuration. Configured HP-UX 9.04, 10.00, and 10.01 and performed FDDI installation. Wroted Korn and AWK scripts as necessary for system administration. Performed installations of Oracle, Informix, and Sybase.    UNIX Systems Adminsitrator ( Contract ) UNIX System Administrator U.S. Customs Service - Springfield, VA February 1995 to July 1995 for 17 IBM and SUN workstations running AIX 3.2.5, SunOS 4.1.3, and Solaris 2.4. Developed and implemented UNIX standards and guidelines. Developed UNIX and Oracle shrink-wrap scripts for faster and easier installation. Configured and implemented DNS and administered NIS.  Performed Base OS installations and application software installations ( including Oracle ). Developed and implemented security enhancements to Base OS, including 2nd level support configuration. Developed and implemented backup strategy and scripts. Wrote code ( Korn, C, and Awk ) as necessary for system administration duties. UNIX System Administrator Comsys / Mobil Oil Corporation - Fairfax, VA February 1994 to January 1995 UNIX system administrator within team of 7 administrators. Lead responsibility for day-to-day operations support of 7 midrange servers and 6 workstations ( IBM, HP, and Sun ) for 23 client-server applications. Systems administered included compute servers, database servers, communication gateways, and application workstations. Helped to configure system administration standards and guidelines, and helped other sys admins with various tasks. Provided 2nd level UNIX support to remote sys admins. Tasks included: Base OS installation, filesystem configuration, user/group administration, TCP/IP configuration, peripheral configuration, and more. Supported application programmers ( C, Awk, and Korn shell ) as necessary. Wrote code ( Korn, C, and Awk ) as necessary for system administration duties. Unix Systems Administrator McKinsey & Co., Inc - New York, NY March 1992 to January 1994 Sole systems administrator for a Sun computer network of 1 midrange server and 10 workstations running SunOS 4.1.3 and Solaris 2.3. Supported team of quantitative analysts. Installed and configured Base OS and application software. Configured filesystems, user accounts, and peripherals. Performed some statistical programming and wrote utilities to help analysts. Wrote scripts for system administration, including system backup and performance analysis of cpu, virtual memory, and I/O performance. Senior Programmer Analyst and Unix Systems Administrator ( Split Contract ) CDSI / U.S. Army RD&E Center - Natick, MA February 1991 to March 1992 Administered a group of approximately 100 DOS PCs and 4 Intel XENIX Unix systems. Installed Base OS and application software. Wrote C shell and C programs as necessary for system administration. Maintained INFORMIX SQL and developed INFORMIX 4GL databases for accounting and personnel. Assistant Engineer Grumman Aerospace Corp - Bethpage, NY June 1982 to April 1989 Maintained and developed FORTRAN and other software to simulate aircraft and control systems in real-time for various engineering analyses. Programmed extensively in FORTRAN on GOULD/SEL mini-computers and in MPS-10 parallel programming language on an AD-10. Also programmed extensively on EAI 2000 analog computers. Programmed data-capture and data-massaging modules in FORTRAN on GOULD/SEL, PDP-11, and Perkin-Elmer minicomputers.    Translated aircraft equations to FORTRAN, MPS-10, and analog circuitry; and identified modules for multi-processor assignment. Programmed interfaces for 6-degree-of-freedom, motion-based cockpit and other hardware. Summer Intern Bell Laboratories - Piscataway, NJ June 1980 to August 1980 Developed C application to display trends in personnel data. Education Bachelor's in Computer & Systems Engineering Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute - Troy, NY May 1982 Regent's Diploma Malverne High School - Malverne, NY September 1976 to June 1978 Summer Student Program Massachusetts Institute of Technology - Cambridge, MA 1977 St. Joseph's High School - Saint Croix, IN September 1974 to June 1976 Summer Student Program United States Military Academy at West Point - West Point, NY 1976 Skills Linux, Solaris, System Administrator, Unix Administration (10+ years), Unix Shell Scripting (10+ years), Perl (5 years), Ruby (1 year), SuSe Linux (4 years), Red Hat Linux (3 years), AIX (1 year), LDOMs (2 years), Vmware (4 years), Veritas Volume Manager (7 years), LVM (4 years), ZFS (1 year), Veritas Cluster Server VCS (3 years), Solstice Disksuite (5 years), NFS (5 years), TCP/IP (5 years), Sendmail (2 years), Veritas Netbackup (2 years), Firewalls (2 years), Jira (1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), Oracle (2 years), SQL (3 years), PL/SQL (1 year) Additional Information Unix and Linux Systems Administrator with 25 years of experience specializing in maximizing system availability and performance, and with a passion for building and modifying automated scripts with Unix Shell and Perl to better enable the system administration Team in monitoring and troubleshooting systems.  A professional, a creative thinker, a people person, an analytical thinker, and a consummate team player.