Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator As a veteran Systems Administrator and Engineer I have extensive data communications experience, possessing the advanced skills required to manage the range of complexity of both the small to medium business and large-scale networks. With over 30 years of experience in the IT industry I have held a wide variety of roles and developed a broad range of knowledge in various practice areas. I've had both hands-on experience and well as technical and customer support experience. Additionally, I have worked for many major equipment manufacturers and service providers supporting sales and account management efforts. In addition to technical expertise, I am an excellent communicator and leader with a proven record of achievement and a "can-do attitude" to take on new challenges to advance the company strategic vision and delight customers. Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator SENIOR CARE CENTERS May 2019 to August 2019 In this short-term contract position, I was on-boarded to help the client stabilize a network of Microsoft on-prem and cloud-based systems and help navigate a turbulent series of events in the life of the organization related to their chapter 11 bankruptcy filing. To learn more, https://www.dallasnews.com/business/business/2018/12/05/texas-largest-nursing-home-operatorfiles-bankruptcy-sparking-concerns-patients-jobs    • Authored automation scripts for repetitive tasks.  • Supported company cloud initiatives by migrating Azure AD accounts and Office 365 mailboxes to ensure mail security, mail recovery, and assured receipt of messages.  • Managed/administered mail systems including on-premise Exchange 2010/2013 servers and cloud-based services (Office 365, Azure, Barracuda).  • Ensured system security by monitoring alerts and staying current with security bulletins.  • Assured system backups function properly and tested per policy.  • Rollout of new systems done on-time and per specifications.  • Handled ticket queues with the appropriate urgency in a timely manner.  • Delivered complex troubleshooting of network, storage, and compute issues.  • Provided solutions, root cause analysis, and preventative measures for system issues.  • Participated in network/storage/compute management, administration, and design activities. Cloud Services Systems Engineer JACK HENRY AND ASSOCIATES November 2016 to October 2018 In this direct hire role, I worked in a team of administrators and software engineers to deploy banking systems and services to small to mid-size banking firms. The technology company's business of providing IAAS, PAAS and SAAS solutions to small to mid-tier banks and credit unions consists banking processing, email delivery, IVR's, call center support and much more. To learn more about the company and it's 300+ services read here,https://www.jackhenry.com/more-from-jha/pages/about-us.aspx    • Provided operational support for cloud-based services in a multi-homed active/passive dual datacenter configuration.  • Managed IP telephony-based systems and private cloud service email delivery services as well as created virtual machines (VMs) and maintained VM hosts, delivered overall VMware ESXi implementation and administration in a VMware 6.0 environment, created scripts, and monitored systems daily.  • Created new mail services for clients in the Jack Henry private cloud-based service. Set up new mail policies and content filters for new customers. Established mail encryption policies and settings as appropriate for mail content. Ran message tracking to troubleshoot mail delivered failures, as well as managed host and recipient tables, destination controls, and data loss prevention (DLP) policies.  • Created new VMWare virtual servers for the JHA Cloud service as required by departmental growth and migrated VMs across hosts within a HA cluster to perform maintenance tasks on ESXi hosts.  • Failover of Windows cluster resources from active to passive nodes in a cluster environment for scheduled maintenance and emergency changes.  • Created users and groups as required for cloud service in Active Directory, created Group Policy objects, checked Active Directory replication, and maintained directory services.  • Wrote PowerShell scripts to automate routine tasks.  • Provided daily, weekly, and monthly status reporting on all services as well as created custom dashboards in SCOM. Systems Engineer DHS-Transportation Security Administration July 2014 to July 2016 In this ITIP contractor role, I was on-boarded into this vital government organization to support its mission to "Protect the nation's transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce". During my two-year tenure, I was part of an operations team that supporting the very large enterprise network, security, messaging and database systems. To learn more, follow https://www.bizjournals.com/washington/blog/fedbiz_daily/2015/03/tsa-extends-expands-cscs-it-support-contract.html  • Provided operational support, server maintenance, and troubleshooting on physical and virtual servers.  • Supported a clustered Exchange 2010 mail organization made up of hub, transport, and mailbox servers as well as a multi-domain Windows 2008R2/2012R2 Active Directory (Functional-level 2008 R2) infrastructure and the Mobile Computing Environment (MCE) within the Transportation Safety Administration (TSA) network to create and maintain a mission-critical, high availability environment.  • Utilized Microsoft PowerShell to create new mail-enabled AD user accounts in bulk for newly on-boarded TSA personnel.  • Minimized system outages related to maintenance and upgrades by following ITIL operational guidance and outlines.  • Supported messaging in an Exchange 2010-2013 co-existent environment.  • Set up and provided administration support on the Active Directory DirSync (Directory Sync) servers facilitating AD object forest migrations. Supported engineering efforts to help coordinate activities related to Active Directory forest migrations, mailbox moves between forests.  • Ran daily (and hourly) system checks on Active Directory replication, Exchange transport queues, Good Mobile Services, and eFax server availability.  • Developed and updated Standard Operation Procedures (SOPs), to standardize the way all engineers perform an action on the network.  • Acted as Subject Matter Expert on Active Directory as related to LDAP modifications, directory trusts, migration tools, and resource management.  • Created new VMware virtual machines as required from VSphere clones and templates. Systems Administrator/Network Engineer Minden Public School System October 2012 to July 2014 In this contractor role, I was responsible for configuring and deploying LAN/WAN switches and routers as well as installing, maintaining, and resolving network infrastructure problems. Additionally, I created a new Active Directory infrastructure in support of School systems initiatives.  • Installed software and systems updates.  • Maintained, upgraded, and implemented improvements to the VMWare ESXi infrastructure.  • Expanded the existing network of servers with Windows Server 2012. Infrastructure Engineering Consultant WILLIS-KNIGHTON HOSPITAL January 2012 to October 2012 In this short-term contract role, I was brought on-board to work within an existing team of administrators and developers to support a new migration project.  • Focused on the physical infrastructure of the network, which included Cisco and Nortel LAN switches, routers, and servers.  • Involved a P-to-V (Physical-to-Virtual) server migration from physical Dell and HP servers to virtual machines hosted on VMware version 5.5.  • Completed Physical-to-Virtual (P2V), Virtual-to-Virtual (V2V) and Virtual-to-Physical (V2P) migration of Windows NT, 2000, 2003, 2008, and 2012.  • Built, configured, and deployed virtual machines and templates. Systems Administrator AUTOMATED FREIGHT SYSTEMS January 2008 to November 2011 Sole Systems Administrator, Engineer, and Network Architect on the network supporting the servers, virtualization on ESXI, network, direct attached storage, Exchange email system, and security devices. Network Engineer FOSSIL PARTNERS May 2007 to January 2008 • Worked within a team of network and systems administrators supporting the LAN/WAN infrastructure.  • Collaborated on a project to remove older Cisco Catalyst LAN switches and replace with Nortel Networks products. Senior Systems Administrator SAGE TELECOM April 2005 to May 2007 Responsibilities included Active Directory, MS Exchange, NetApp NAS storage arrays, Cisco LAN/WAN routing and switching, server hardware, and server virtualization using VMware ESXi. Education Associate of Applied Science in Applied Science DeVry Institute of Technology Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DHCP, LAN/WAN, STORAGE AREA NETWORKS, SWITCHING, VMWARE, DNS, EXCHANGE, IIS, SCOM, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, SQL, TELEPHONY, VOIP, NETAPP, EXCHANGE 2000, MICROSOFT EXCHANGE, LAN Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS    • Microsoft Server 2000-2016  • Microsoft Active Directory  • Microsoft Exchange 2000-2013  • Microsoft SQL Server  • Microsoft IIS Server  • Cisco Routing/Switching  • SPAM Email Gateways (Cisco, Barracuda)  • NetApp Storage Appliances  • VMware  • Storage Area Networks  • VoIP/IP Telephony  • Server Hardware  • Network/ System Protocols  • DNS  • DHCP  • Group Policy  • Email Systems (Microsoft and Cisco)  • PowerShell  • SCOM/Squared UP  • LAN/WAN