Consultant Consultant Consultant Myakka City, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant VIRTUSA - Westborough, MA September 2013 to Present Client Project  o  Team Lead – train, mentor, create and maintain documentation.  o  Escalation point while maintaining a 24/7 schedule.  o  Assign work to team and accountable for all issues.  o  Develop and maintain SQL scripts to meet objectives.  o  Collaboration with offshore teams.  o  Maintain Data Analytics System (Business Intelligence).  ·        Manage and maintain various clients physical and virtual environments to include: Windows Servers, Active Directory, Exchange, IIS, VMware, Nagios monitoring, Check Point.  ·        Lead and attend clients’ biweekly, monthly status meetings.  ·        Provide consultation services to various clients including assisting with work order creation, project management and implementation.  ·        SCCM Project  o  Assist with planning, design, and implementing many components of SCCM per client requests.  o  Create various applications pushing collections.  o  Design, create and test Windows 7 image with many applications baked into “gold image” with light touch interaction.  o  Meet with clients on regular basis to provide status reports.  o  Coordinate, test and obtain approval from client to push initial client and software packages.  o  Knowledge transfer and documentation to clients during and after project completion.  ·        Lead and manage projects while meeting deadlines successfully.  ·        Develop and maintain excellent rapport with clients. Systems Administrator FINISH LINE - Indianapolis, IN August 2012 to August 2013 • Manage and maintain ESX architecture, including vMotion, HA, DRS and Update Manager.  ? Created, managed, configured, customized, clone and templates.  ? Created and maintained DRS automation to balance and ensure scalability.  ? System administration, managing users, groups, roles and access permissions.  ? Managed tasks, events and alarms; recommend and implemented architecture changes.  ? Partnered with vendor, conducted analysis and established future architecture design.  ? Provided level 3 support for VMware related issues.  • Directed the planning, design, production and management of our SCCM implementation.  • Incorporate ITIL methodology.  • Active Directory; Group Policy, DNS, DHCP management and administration.  • Manage and maintain over 300 VMs and physical servers across secure and non-secure segments.  • Utilize Manage Engine OpManager and HPSIM for monitoring and alerting.    • Assist with Lotus notes migration to Exchange Server 2010 using Quest migration tool.  • Exchange 2010 management and administration utilizing EMC and PowerShell.  • Maintain high availability of servers' utilizing HPSIM and OpManager.  • CommVault backup monitoring and maintenance.  • HP, Hitachi SAN, SNAP NAS server monitoring and maintenance.  • Manage and maintain our Infrastructure wiki.  • Tier III troubleshooting for client laptop, desktop and server issues. Network Administrator ICE MILLER, LLP - Indianapolis, IN August 2010 to August 2012 • Manage and maintain over 150 VMs and physical servers locally and remote offices.  • Design, manage and maintain ESX VMware architecture.  • Maintain Barracuda spam filter appliance, including updates and backups.  • Recognized for creating a user-friendly environment, resolving deficiencies in IT customer service, demonstrating exemplary performance, efficiency, and dedication to excellence.  • Manage and maintain Exchange 2010, SQL servers, EMC Clariion, backups and DataDomain.  • Responsible for Symantec Anti-virus installation, troubleshooting & support.  • Maintain high availability of LAN/WAN resources by employing What's Up Gold.  • Research, upgrade and migrate BlackBerry Enterprise server.  • Build, implement, upgrade and configure servers from Windows 2000, 2003 to 2008. Systems Administrator EAGLE ADJUSTING SERVICES, INC - Noblesville, IN October 2008 to August 2010 • Manage and maintain over 40 physical and VM servers.  • Maintain high availability of LAN/WAN resources by employing Orion software.  • Design, Implement, plan Windows Server 2008 and Active Directory upgrade.  • Manage and maintain Exchange 2007 and SQL Server 2005.  • Research, deploy manage and maintain Double-Take replication; GFI Faxmaker software.  • Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Exchange management and administration.  • Responsible for BackupExec Enterprise solution.  • MACs for Phone and voice mail system.  • Provide onsite/remote computer hardware/software technical support for over 300 staff. Systems Administrator PHI DELTA KAPPA INTERNATIONAL - Bloomington, IN 1999 to May 2008 • Design, develop, build, implement, manage and maintain all aspects of data center for switches/routers, servers, firewall and VPN implementation, backups, workstations and laptops.  • Investigate, plan, design and implement new NEC phone, voice mail system.  • Research, implement and maintain SQL servers.  • Provide server, network, PC/MAC, laptop administration and support. Education Software Education IBM Tech Conference Skills Windows Servers, VMware, SQL, Active Directory, Exchange (10+ years) Additional Information Areas of Expertise  • Self-motivated professional with an established reputation for reliability, hard work, dedication and consistency.  • Employ well-developed time management skills to define priorities, outline constraints and implement activities tailored to meeting specifications and deadlines.  • Accuracy, attention to detail, customer service, productivity, efficiency and effectiveness in a constantly changing field.  • Lead and manage various projects to successful completion while meeting deadlines.  • Devise and institute upgrades, expansions and modifications. Streamline internal controls.  • Provide technical direction, guidance to professional staff and administrative personnel.  • Exceptionally skilled at building rapport with peers, departments, clients and vendors.    Hardware:  HP, DELL, IBM, Macintosh; DataDomain; Barracuda; HP/EMC SAN; NEC and Toshiba.  Software:   VMware; Hyper-V; Windows Servers; Exchange, Teams and Skype, SCCM, Orchestrator; Azure; SQL; Double-Take; Orion, What’s Up Gold, OpManager and HPSIM; Symantec Enterprise Security and Backup Exec; CommVault, Veeam; Trend Micro; Kaspersky; Check Point; Windows 95-10, Macintosh; TrackIt; GFI FAXmaker; RightFax; BlackBerry Enterprise Server; SharePoint; ConnectWise; Service Now. 