Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - VCA Glendale, CA Senior Systems Engineer with 22 years of technical, professional experience including:    • Extensive experience in working with various stakeholders\projects managers in determining requirements to implement the desired product  • Extensive experience working with infrastructure teams in configuring their respective modules applicable to the product being implemented  • Established and maintained successful working relationship with various service providers\vendors in supporting their respective product through its full lifecycle  • Experience installing and maintaining Windows Active Directory and MS Exchange.  • Experience implementing Citrix, VMWare, Exchange, IIS, SQL.  • Experience creating monitoring and automating scripts to streamline processes.  • Extensive experience in creating scripts in VBScript, PowerShell and Perl scripting languages.  • Extensive work experience within the healthcare industry. Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer VCA Antech, Inc. - Santa Monica, CA January 2019 to Present • Developed CMDB discovery processes which integrated SCCM, vCenter and SolarWinds applications with ServiceNow ITSM solution  •  Integrated SCOM with ServiceNow for events to be recorded as incidents and assigned according to escalation logic  • Deployed and supported Citrix Xenapp environment Senior Systems Engineer Cedars - Sinai Medical Center - Los Angeles, CA August 2005 to January 2019 • Planned, supported, and monitored all administrative functions to foster efficient operation of local and wide area networks in NOS server environment that contained 2500 servers  • Implemented and supported fully functional VMware VSphere environment that hosted 1500 guest Operating Systems  • Supported Active Directory multisite environment  • Created and supported Active Directory Group Policies  • Modified AD attributed utilizing advanced knowledge of VBScript and PowerShell   • Deployed and supported ADAM for several LDAP enabled applications  • Revised existing systems and procedures to correct deficiencies and maintain more effective data handling, conversion, input/output requirements, and storage.  • Performed Powershell scripting, and worked extensively with Windows servers.  • Deployed Operating Systems, Software Packages, OS patches by the means of SCCM application  • Ensured hardware and software compatibility coordinated and made necessary modification to applications/ systems while insuring minimal application/ system downtime.  • As project leader, guided successful completion of major programs and represent the group as prime technical contact on assigned projects.  • Assessed application needs, determine hardware/software requirements, and present automated solutions.  • Provided third tier support in regards NOS, LANs, WANs, and servers. System Engineer AEG - Los Angeles, CA February 2017 to February 2018 • Lead the Active Directory functional level upgrade project  • Implemented and supported redundant DHCP environment  • Implemented and supported several SAN solutions  • Deployed several instances VMware ESX environments  • Developed custom scripts that extract data from SolarWinds for ITLM solution  • Supported multi-site Active Directory environment  • Developed various scripts to reduce administrative efforts in supporting the server infrastructure System Administrator III Northrop Grumman - Huntington Beach, CA 2004 to 2005 Designed, developed, tested, implemented, and maintained enterprise-wide classified computer systems and utilities.  • Analyzed internal and external customer needs, determine equipment and software requirements for solutions to problems.  • Developed customized solutions to customer/user problems.  • Interacted with senior external personnel on significant technical matters often requiring coordination between organizations utilizing UNIX and Windows systems in both DOD and SAP/SAR environments.  • Created new network accounts, adjusted disk space restrictions, monitored server backups and restores, ensured security, maintained necessary accounts for users, and established/upgraded existing servers; collaborated with Microsoft NT, Novell Netware, Linux, and Macintosh support staff. Senior Computer Consultant Btech - Pasadena, CA 2003 to 2004 Developed technical architecture, advanced design and configuration.  • Held responsibility for database administration, automated software distribution, network administration, systems management, and security.  • Increased end user productivity by sharing software usage tips on regular basis and training users.  • Contributed to establishment, documentation, and implementation of software installation standards.  • Led network services projects to on time completion.  • Directed other technicians in managing events in control center environment.  • Handled escalated and advanced trouble tickets and service requests spanning multiple sites.  • Developed and strengthened customer and vendor relationship. Systems Administrator Financial Partners Credit Union - Downey, CA 1999 to 2003 Supervised network administrator and serve as advisor for technical support specialists and network administrators.  • Evaluated computer systems, analyze business needs, and recommend hardware and software solutions.  • Installed and maintained Windows 2000 Active Directory and MS Exchange 2000 to support 250 users.  • Improved network uptime from previously poor levels to 99.85%.  • Saved company $190,000+ annually via improvements to receipt printing process and tape back-up strategy; reduced company's reliance on consultants.  • Collaborated with web developers to produce effective sales and service automation tools.  • Provided 24x7 support for customer touch point systems.  • Provided administrative and technical support for NT-based LAN system, servicing client and server components.  • Evaluated LAN performance using administration tools.  • Planned and implemented large-scale software deployments; installed and configured server applications.  • Configured network equipment, such as network switches and print servers.  • Developed strategies to optimize NT LAN environment using System Management Server.  • Authored documentation and training materials for end users, and technical support staff.  • Performed backups using ArcServe and Norton Ghost; enhanced backup process.  • Designed new procedure that reduced turnaround time to resolve network issues.  • Achieved "Employee of the Quarter" award based on performance. PC Network Technician Digital Performance - Torrance, CA 1996 to 1999 Supported clients such as Cedars-Sinai Health Systems, DIRECTV, and various credit unions and police departments.; diagnosed and resolved system hardware, software, and end-user issues.  • Installed and upgraded software and hardware, including deployment of 1,000+ units.  • Developed installation and usage procedures, and documentation.  • Implemented Exchange, IIS, SQL, and SNA servers, and formulated-backup policies.  • Evaluated user needs, analyzed data, formulated technical proposals, and presented solutions.  • Trained and supported system users. Education Bachelor of Arts in Bachelor of Arts: Economics St. Petersburg Institute for International Economic Relations, Economics and Law Skills System Administrator, Linux, Active Directory, Vmware Additional Information Technical Skills    Operating Systems: Expert knowledge of Windows OS, Advanced knowledge of Open System Based OS.  Networking: LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, MS Terminals Services, Active Directory, Windows Clusters, DNS Server, DHCP Server, WINS Server, Exchange Server, IIS, SCOM, SCCM, VMWare, Citrix  Applications: AppWorx, Automize, Informatica, Initiate, Kronos, MS Office Suites, MS SQL, and etc.  Languages: PowerShell, Visual Basic, Perl.  Hardware: PC/server assembly and repair, routers, firewalls, hubs, switches, cabling, peripherals, telephony systems (IVR, CTI).