System Security Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> Security <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Security Administrator Virginia Beach, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Security Administrator Jacobs Technology - Virginia Beach, VA August 2018 to Present • Conduct Security scanning using Defense Information Systems Agency's (DISA) Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS) in a standalone and networked environment  • Install, configure, and maintain the Department of Defense (DOD) approved McAfee Host Based Security System (HBSS)  • Provide support and technical expertise in computer and networking technologies including: Desktop workstations, laptop computers, small form-factor computers, server systems, storage systems (NAS, SAN, Etc.), LAN/WAN hardware, switches, bridges and routers  • Coordinate and implement server and network software and hardware upgrades  • Troubleshoot and resolve LAN/WAN performance, connectivity and related network problems  • Document network infrastructure and design  • Perform installation, maintenance, and support of system software and hardware.  • Install, configure and maintain computer peripherals: printers, scanners, etc.  • Install and configure application and operating system software and upgrades  • Removing old equipment and performing data migration to new machines  • Maintaining an inventory of installed software, managing software licensing, and creating policies and procedures for upgrades  • Other duties as needed. Technical Architect CACI International Inc November 2016 to August 2018 • Provide high-level support and technical expertise in networking technology, including LAN/WAN hardware, switches, bridges and routers  • Administering the operation of LAN/WAN-related network services according to Government policies and procedures  • Coordinate and implement network software and hardware upgrades  • Troubleshoot and resolve LAN/WAN performance, connectivity and related network problems  • Document network infrastructure and design  • Develop, maintain, and support technical infrastructure, hardware, and system software components  • Perform installation, maintenance, and support of system software and hardware.  • Perform user support  • Analyze, troubleshoot and resolve system hardware, software, and networking issues  • Configure, optimize, fine-tune, and monitor operating system software and hardware  • Perform system backups and recovery  • Installing, configuring and maintaining desktop and laptop PCs and peripherals, such as printers  • Installing and configuring application and operating system software and upgrades  • Troubleshooting and repairing hardware and network connectivity issues  • Removing old equipment and performing data migration to new machines  • Maintaining an inventory of installed software, managing software licensing, and creating policies and procedures for upgrades  • Working with hardware and software vendors to verify timely product delivery and ensuring that new equipment is installed and ready to operate on schedule  • Analyzing and making recommendations for hardware and software standardization TACLAN Systems Administrator L3/CACI - Virginia Beach, VA July 2015 to November 2016 NSWG-2) L3-NSS/CACI 6 Jul 2015 - 5 Nov 2016  • Install, operate, and maintain assigned TACLAN equipment (to include assisting the customer with Mission Planning Kits and Field Computing Devices).  • Deploy, maintain and upgrade Windows-based servers and applications including Active Directory, File and Print Services, Microsoft SQL, MS SCCM, Microsoft Systems Center Configuration Manager, and DHCP, MS Exchange, and McAfee HBSS.  • Provides senior level administration of Windows based network systems including, but not limited to, support for Windows 2003 and 2008 servers and Windows 7 workstations.  • Tracks support requests through the ISD Remedy system while keeping an inventory database updated with current network devices.  • Updates, repairs and documents work for servers and workstations; coordinates warranty work for same.  • Perform preventative maintenance on assigned TACLAN equipment, and on-site analysis and repair of software and hardware problems found by the customer.  • Provide recommendations for and implement backup and system restoration policies.  • Perform on-site software assistance in the form of installation of updates, new baselines, and information assurance/virus protection tools and patches for all network and client hardware/software.  • Provide "desk-side" user support in response to TACLAN helpdesk calls by the user. Support consists of isolating faults and identifying & replacing faulty parts with on-site spares to return the TACLAN systems to service.  • Inspect and maintain the hardware configuration of all TACLAN equipment in accordance with the TACLAN Program Office approved configuration specifications.  • Be responsible for providing operational training on established TACLAN systems to government personnel who are assigned to maintain and operate the TACLAN systems in deployed scenarios. Training will be at the basic operational level and may include preventative maintenance and troubleshooting as needed. This training will supplement New Equipment Training courses provided by the TACLAN Program Office.  • Be prepared to deploy on exercises and/or real-world deployments as needed to provide user support to the TACLAN equipment. When deployed, personnel will maintain all equipment, tools, diagnostic software and ensure operational software is current. Field Technician SAIC, Inc January 2009 to June 2015 • Provide 24/7 support of United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) Tactical Local Area Networks (TACLAN) and computers deployed worldwide supporting Exchange 2010, Windows server and client operating systems, Wide Area Voice Environment, switches, and routers.  • Troubleshoot and analyze logs, services, error messages, and processes to help detect, prevent, and repair problems.  • Assist in the development of documents and spreadsheets for operation and maintenance, technical information bulletins (TIBs), equipment replenishment, and warranty essential to the TACLAN program.  • Travel as needed to CONUS/OCONUS locations to support the end user. Education Traverse City Central High School 1996 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin, Networking, Hardware, Troubleshooting, Solidworks, Office Applications, Windows OS, Ubuntu Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching March 2018 to March 2021 CCENT August 2017 to August 2020 Security+ CE May 2015 to May 2021 NetApp Certified Data Management Administrator (NCDA) January 2015 to January 2018 Dell Notebook Certified September 2014 to September 2015 Certified to maintain and repair Dell laptops Getac Level 2 Certified July 2014 to July 2015 Certified to maintain and repair Getac laptops Security+ GFL November 2009 to Present The original Security+ certification was Good For Life (GFL)