Data Engineer Data Engineer Systems Administrator Santa Clarita, CA ? Over 10 years' experience working with and supporting IT backend systems and infrastructure.  ? Designed and Implemented multiple systems including servers, workstations, networks, and printers.  ? Experience planning and implementing DNS, DHCP, Routing, and VLANS in environments hosting over 1000+ users.  ? Expert knowledge of TCP/IP topologies, technologies, and implementation methods.  ? Worked with multiple vendors to ensure best possible planning and implementation of business requirements.  ? Experience managing and maintaining backup and recovery systems of servers, storage, and database technologies.  ? Expert knowledge maintaining Active Directory and Group Policies, including the use of PowerShell and PowerShell Scripts.  ? Experience supporting environments in cloud based technologies such Azure.  ? Extensive knowledge of Windows System Management including anti-virus solutions, patch management, and performance monitoring.  ? Configured and implemented clustered and virtual storage solutions.  ? Detail oriented including documentation of software, hardware, and network devices.  ? Expert trouble shooter and problem solver, able to see from high level a path to any solution.  ? Comfortable in a team or working alone to provide top level support.  ? Ability to learn quickly and adapt to changes rapidly.  ? Excellent Customer Service Skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Engineer Advantage Solutions July 2017 to February 2019 Advantage Solutions is the nation's leading business solutions provider to manufacturers and retailers, offering a customizable suite of technology-enabled sales and marketing solutions designed to drive consumer demand, increase sales, and achieve operating efficiencies.  Responsibilities:  ? Provided support for data warehouse utilized by multiple fortune 500 companies.  ? Created multiple data stores and ETL processes to import data from sources such as JSON, XML, CSV, Excel and more using SSMS and SSIS.  ? Updated multiple ETL processes to support new business requirements for Data Warehouse.  ? Developed multiple reports and dashboards using tools such as PowerBI, SSRS, and Tableau.  ? Performed data quality, data cleansing, data manipulation, and data normalization checks on multiple data sources.  ? Created and managed multiple Schedule Jobs to support ETL processes.  ? Worked with a team of Developers and QA to ensure development standards were always met.  ? Used tools such as PowerShell and Visual Studio to development new software.  ? Used Team Foundation Services and Agile to ensure projects were always delivered on time.  ? Provided support to old reports and processes.  ? Created dashboard and reports for mobile devices.  ? Worked with Business owners to ensure data was delivered as needed.  ? Created job and performance monitors to alert team to issues proactively.  ? Developed multiple report calculations based on business needs. Systems Administrator Conifer Health Solutions August 2013 to July 2017 Conifer Health Solutions is a member of the Tenet Healthcare Network, one of the largest healthcare corporations in the Country. Conifer Health Solutions provides billing services for Health Care facilities. Conifer receives claims information from partnered facilities which are then processed and billed accordingly.  Responsibilities:  ? Provided support of Servers, Switches, Printers, and Network Devices for over 1000+ users in multiple states around the country.  ? Created and maintained multiple application servers  ? Was responsible for server patching, upgrades, backups, and performance tuning.  ? Supported DNS, DHCP, VLANS, MPLS, and Routing Tables.  ? Created support documentation for applications, servers, and network technologies.  ? Worked with Helpdesk to provide support for back-end technologies as needed  ? Created multiple performance alerts and reports to help maintain system efficiency.  ? Implemented technologies such as VMware and Clustering.  ? Managed backups through Commvault and Iron Mountain.  ? Installed multiple on-site systems from HP, Dell, and Cisco as needed.  ? Utilized PowerShell for support and to create system tasks.  ? Provided DBA support as needed including the creation of multiple DBs, and performance tuning.  ? Implemented new processes for managing applications to our helpdesk team, along with training materials and walkthroughs.  ? Experience with automation through the use of SSIS.  ? Managed multiple teams as new projects appeared. SQL Developer Equator LLC August 2012 to January 2013 Equator provides clients with infrastructure software as a service, providing custom built applications to fit the needs of its customers in the real estate market. Equator provides applications such as EQ Workstation, which automates day-to-day business processes for Lenders, Servicers, Vendors and Agents.  Responsibilities:  ? Created complex SQL Queries for ETL Processes of new Data from multiple sources.  ? Created multiple SSIS packages to manage ETL Processes.  ? Was tasked with conversion of SSIS packages into T-SQL and Vice-Versa.  ? Worked in a team-based environment to complete projects on time and without issues.  ? Developed multiple tools for extraction of data from multiple sources and data types.  ? Developed comparison tool using T-SQL to compare table data.  ? Was responsible for ensuring data integrity through comparison tools.  ? Developed numerous stored procedures, tables, and views for new projects.  ? Worked with users and other developers to transfer data as needed from one database to another.  ? Developed multiple SSIS packages for ETL of new table data.  ? Used tools for tracking SDLC to ensure on time delivery of projects and tools.  ? Responded to new requests and requirements in a timely fashion as needed. Helpdesk/Server Administrator Southern California Orthopedic Institute January 2008 to August 2012 One of the largest orthopedic hospitals in California. SCOI Specializes in the treatment of musculoskeletal injuries, as well as prevention and education in proper body mechanics, ergonomic, and post-injury rehabilitation.  Responsibilities:  ? Created new ghost images for implementation of new workstations.  ? Obtained pricing for purchase of new IT Equipment  ? Managed multiple servers and equipment from multiple work sites.  ? Assisted with implementation of new Hyper-V environment from beginning to end.  ? Assisted with implementation of new SAN and Failover cluster environment.  ? Supported multiple issues regarding Computers, Servers, Printers, and Networks.  ? Was responsible for management of server space and allocation of resources.  ? Created new user logins, email address, and software access through Active Directory.  ? Assisted with implementation of Backup Schedule, Shadow Copies, and NAS Access.  ? Managed 5 different sites with over 600 users.  ? Worked with Directors, Managers, and Doctors to ensure all business requirements were met.  ? Optimized new systems, networks, and applications.  ? Supported SQL Server related issues including locks and performance.  ? Backed up and recovered Server Databases as needed.  ? Experience with migration and implementation of new SQL Environments and software Education High school or equivalent Skills System Administrator, Linux, Active Directory, System Admin, Vmware Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pmuml5uqpyambqoz Data Analysis — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pusjrpzqwzwp2e6c Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Languages:      T-SQL, PL/SQL, C++, C#, Python, HTML, XML, CSS, JAVA, JavaScript, PowerShell.  Environments: Windows Server, Azure, AWS, Hyper-V, VMware, Cisco, Dell, HP, IIS, Exchange, Office 365, SSMS, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, PowerBI, Tableau, Commvault, Active Directory, Group Policy Administration