Sr. Windows Systems Administrator Sr. Windows <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Windows Systems Administrator San Diego, CA Work Experience Sr. Windows Systems Administrator Cognitive Medical Systems Inc July 2016 to September 2018 • Amazon Web Services administration  • Maintained third party software on Windows and Linux Servers  • Help troubleshoot day to day customer activities  • Help manage and configure monitoring and security software  • Patching of Windows and Linux servers  • Vulnerability remediation  • Performed system maintenance to network devices and servers  • Active Directory administration, management and monitoring  • Configure and administer Linux and Windows operating systems  • Anti-virus software administration Sr. IT Technical Specialist Arris Group Inc August 2014 to February 2016 • DAC installation, configuration, splitting, and troubleshooting.  • SEMs, RADD, OM, ARPD, CASMR, SDM, and Apex support.  • Network monitoring, and security with SNORT, Solarwinds, and PRTG.  • Customer support and on-call systems Support  • Formal headend, CASMR, and DAC training completed in Horsham.  • Database troubleshooting.  • VMware host and guest OS Administration.  • Customer site adds and removal  • Heavy troubleshooting and documentation.  • Linux system administration  • BASH scripting. Senior Technology Associate Sunrise Capital Partners November 2011 to 2013 • Microsoft Exchange Server 2007/2013  • Firewalls, switching IOS management  • P2P VPN and Remote Access Systems  • Microsoft Active Directory 2008R2 migration  • VMware host and guest OS Administration  • DNS, HTTP, DHCP, SharePoint, Radius Server, Group Policy  • SNMP Network Monitoring with Foglight and Solarwinds Orion Network Monitor  • Network Documentation and Diagramming  • Employee Management  • Infrastructure Design  • SQL Server Administration and troubleshooting  • Disaster Recovery Site Planning and Business Continuity Design and Implementation  • SAN and NAS administration  • Microsoft SharePoint Migration  • Project Management  • End User and Workstation support  • Hardware Builds, Troubleshooting and Upgrades.  • Vendor Management  • Anti-Virus and Patch Management  • Security Patch Management and Group P  • Contract negotiations  • SEC Regulatory Compliance Systems Engineer Robert Half Technology October 2006 to September 2011 On Contract for the following Clients:  All Covered - Systems Engineer  Clarivest - Systems Administrator  Naval Hospital Camp Pendlelton  Temecula Valley Bank  Jenny Craig Inc.    • Cisco ASA and SonicWALL network appliances  • Cisco Routing and Switching  • SAN and NAS administration  • Exchange Administration  • Active Directory and file permissions management  • Server migration, maintenance, troubleshooting, and virtualization  • VMware installation, administration, and troubleshooting  • Light SQL server maintenance  • Symantec Backup Exec  • Dell and HP tape library Support  • Switch configuration  • Cisco router troubleshooting  • Network troubleshooting  • Network cabling  • Hardware troubleshooting, and upgrades  • Workstation deployment  • Disaster recovery planning  • Application support  • Project management for deployments and cutovers  • Customer service/end user support  • Workstation deployment  • Disaster recovery planning  • Server configuration and installation.  • Network security monitoring  • User activity and compliance monitoring  • Operating System Patch Management  • Application Support  • Remote Site Network Troubleshooting and Administration  • Application Support  • Network infrastructure project planning and deployment  • Network Monitoring and Alerting with Orion and Fluke Networks  • Extensive travel to remote offices  • Avaya Phone System Administration  • SharePoint server administration  • Network routing and switching  • Networking cabling and wire management  • Server configuration and installation.  • Server installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting  • Network security monitoring  • User activity and compliance monitoring  • Linux System Administration  • Cisco Call Manager and Unity Server Product Implementation  • HIPA Compliance  • End User Support of Cisco 7900 series IP phones and voicemail  • Management of all telecom phone circuits, cellular phones, pagers and conference calling  • Audited all voice and data billing to ensure accuracy  • Ensured all appropriate due diligence has occurred, reviewed and approved by appropriate management levels  • Managed enterprise vendors to ensure compliance with policy, procedure, and current technologies  • Administered Blackberry Enterprise Server (BES) and Blackberry devices  • Audit of all telecommunications billing that resulted in over 100,000.00 in annual savings  • SOX Compliance  • Disaster recovery  • Remote System Administration via VNC and Remote Desktop.  • Operating system troubleshooting  • Virus and spyware removal  • Telephone Support of end users of corporate and remote offices.  • Trouble ticket tracking via Heat Systems Administrator Newland Communities August 2008 to December 2008 • Server Administration  • Remote Site Network Troubleshooting and Administration  • Workstation patch management  • Application Support  • Network infrastructure project planning and deployment  • Network Monitoring and Alerting with Orion and Fluke Networks  • Cisco Routing and Switching  • Extensive travel to remote offices  • Avaya Phone System Administration  • SharePoint server administration Technical Support Representative Cox Communication July 2000 to March 2005 • Receiving over 180 support calls daily  • Call logging and tracking with Remedy  • Assisted customers with cable telephone, internet, and video support  • Educated Customer on equipment, products and services  • 92 percent effective in resolving issues without necessity of field technicians.  • Coordinated the efforts of support staff and field technicians in the event of service interruptions  • Escalated trouble tickets through proper channels to resolve ongoing network issues  • Interdepartmental communication  • Understand how to install, configure, and integrate products into our product lineup and services. Education Cisco Academy Moorpark College - Moorpark, CA Business Management Palomar College Ascolta Training Academy Skills vpn, active directory, firewalls, vmware, System Administration, Linux Administrator Additional Information ? Excellent critical thinking and communication skills  ? I work well independently as well as in a team environments  ? Strong management and customer support abilities  ? Excellent troubleshooting abilities  ? Strong organizational and project management skills  ? Microsoft Server 2008R2, 2012, 2012R2  ? Microsoft Windows 7, 8, & 10  ? VMware Virtualization  ? Linux Server Administration  ? Dell SAN's  ? Postini Spam Filter  ? Cisco and Dell LAN switching  ? WAN routing  ? SonicWALL, Fortigate, and Cisco ASA, and CheckPoint  ? Cisco Call Manager Administration  ? Cisco Unity Administration  ? Network security auditing  ? Linux system administration  ? Telecommunications administration