Senior Application Administrator (Salesforce) Senior Application <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Salesforce) Salesforce Administrator Houston, TX Highly skilled and driven IT professional with expert knowledge of Salesforce, business analysis, application administration, and team leadership. Currently seeking a fulfilling career in business applications administration utilizing my expertise in the Salesforce PaaS and business analysis skillset. Work Experience Senior Application Administrator (Salesforce) The Brock Group - Houston, TX October 2013 to August 2018 • Implemented and administered the Salesforce CRM environment at Brock.  • Closely worked with Business stakeholders while implementing the solutions for the needs of the organization. This gave us the opportunity to standardize and refine business processes.  • Designed and developed workflow rules, validation rules, flows and customizations within Salesforce. By automating tasks, we were able to free up end user time and improve productivity.  • Implemented security and access control by building a model around the user profile, permission sets and roles to achieve Object level, field level and record level security. This helped secure data along our regional structure.  • Created list views, Reports, Dashboards, Page layouts, Custom objects, custom fields, and validation rules. Creating customized lists and views helped to save time and increase adoption.  • Utilized app builder to create Salesforce mobile applications for quicker "on the go" data collection. This increased adoption rates.  • Created custom reports and dashboards for management and C-level employees to give quicker access to important business data. This helped to quickly add value to the Salesforce investment.  • Worked on data cleanup using data loader and data import wizard. Also introduced validation rules for data entry. This increased the validity of our data and confidence in the system.  Enhanced workflows, productivity, and project tracking by utilizing Office 365's tools such as SharePoint, Teams, VSTS, MS Flow, Power BI and PowerApps to create easier way to get information into company ticketing system. Business Systems Engineer Comfort Systems USA - Houston, TX October 2003 to May 2013 • Bottom-line accountability for systems administration initiatives, including user and application security, database administration, applications troubleshooting, and user setup.  • Subject Matter Expert for systems concepts, strategies, solutions, and methodologies.  • Applied detailed knowledge of systems architecture, technical standards, and understanding of project management methodologies.  • Collaborated with various departments and consultants to coordinate testing to meet end user needs.  • Served as project design coordinator for Extraction, Transformation, and Loading software, while maintaining corporate website.  • Served in leadership role for ERP; realized significant savings in vendor costs by learning Crystal Reports and creating several custom reports out of the ERP system.  • Led reengineering ERP environment several times to keep up with current technologies.  • Kept abreast of rules and regulations in order to strictly follow Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) audit requirements. Business Systems Administrator, S&B Infrastructure S&B Engineers & Constructors - Houston, TX October 1998 to October 2003 • Developed and managed business systems to align with organization short term and long-term strategy.  • Conducted thorough assessment of business systems and provided qualitative and quantitative analysis to business leaders.  • Researched and identified platforms for stability, risk, and operational efficiencies. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Science in Computer Science College of the Mainland - Texas City, TX Skills Data architecture, Data management, Erp, Power bi, Crm, Dns, Iis, Security, Sharepoint, Microsoft access, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Progress, Sql, Active directory, Citrix, Dhcp, Terminal services, Salesforce Admin, Salesforce Links http://trailhead.salesforce.com/me/chuckdevries http://linkedin.com/in/Charles-De-Vries Certifications/Licenses Salesforce.com Certified Administrator June 2019 to Present Groups Salesforce Trailhead - Certified Admins June 2019 to Present Admin group used as a knowledge resource pool for admins across the globe. Additional Information ¨    Salesforce - Certified Administrator  ¨    Salesforce – Process Automation Specialist  ¨    Salesforce – Business Administration Specialist  ¨    Salesforce – Security Specialist  Salesforce – Lightning Reports & Dashboards