Systems Advisor <span class="hl">Systems</span> Advisor Systems Advisor - GDIT / TEKSystems Tucson, AZ Work Experience Systems Advisor GDIT / TEKSystems August 2018 to Present • Install and configure hardware and software  • Operations and Maintenance of Network Servers.  • Account Setup  • Monitor and maintain systems according to requirements.  • Configure, implement, and Monitor NEC network Layer 2 structures for bases scheduled for JRSS migration  • Provide the technical and implementation support to help standardize new LAN subnets in accordance with the JMT approved standard.  • O&M, including defending the JRSS environment at the Agency Level; their SIPR equivalents, managed by the SMT, the management networks and systems (JMS), and the underlying workstations, servers of the SMT.  • Monitor ongoing ASI's and Outages.  •Document the use of, procedures. Update procedures and processes as needed. Utilize Remedy ITSM / Remedy Ticketing system to track and resolve issues impacting system operations Senior Systems Administrator SOSI / STG Inc September 2017 to August 2018 • Worked with all organizational levels to resolve technical issues; including Government officials and program stakeholders.  • Worked in a high pace environment with multiple sites as a team to accomplish mission requirements.  • Used knowledge of Microsoft Windows, Active Directory, DNS, and DHCP management to implement Network Operations, and technical support to problem-solve issues on an ongoing basis.  • Troubleshot complex issues  • Operated and maintained VMware virtualized environments on diverse hardware platforms.  • Participated in virtualizing infrastructure.  • Planned, coordinated, and documented the use of, procedures. Updated procedures, processes as needed.  • Utilize Remedy ITSM / Remedy Ticketing system to track and resolve issues impacting system operations.  • Made and or implemented recommended solutions for any corrective actions that were required.  • Worked with remote customers and technical support vendors to resolve 3rd party issues.  • Provided Operations and Maintenance on Windows infrastructure to stay in DISA STIG compliance.  • Used ACAS to scan servers monthly to maintain DISA STIG compliance.  • Performed Operations & Maintenance to keep servers and compliant with IAVM requirements.  • Provide solutions to maintain operational status of Server infrastructure. System Administrator II Banner Health - Tucson, AZ March 2014 to June 2017 • Installed new, upgraded, and rebuilt servers, configured hardware, software, peripherals, and services.  • Researched and recommended innovative and automated approaches to system administrative tasks.  • Perform daily system monitoring; verifying the availability of servers and system resources  • Provided support per client requests.  • Managed VMware Pod  • Managed user accounts and Groups  • Investigated and troubleshot system issues.  • Repaired and recover from both hardware and software failures  • Applied OS patches and upgrades on a regularly scheduled basis.  • Provide 2nd level support to identify, troubleshoot and resolve issues quickly and effectively  • Install and upgrade new and current systems to support growth and new projects  • Provided 24/7 support on a rotational basis Network Engineer, C³ Tucson, AZ October 2011 to February 2014 • Setup Routers and switches for new clients  • Assisted with troubleshooting when outages occurred  • Setup and maintained VPN connections  • Setup new vlans for new clients  • Performed delivery, inventory, deployment of computer equipment, network equipment, and peripherals  • Administer user accounts, groups and OU's in Active Directory  • Manage tickets via the ABS Helpdesk ticketing system  • Optimize end user workstations for performance and helped troubleshoot and eliminate site wide per day  • Setup 800 computers using Symantec Ghost, setup printers on the print server, programmed, deployed and supported Avaya 9640 VOIP phones.  • Configure printers and copiers for a new site, including; printing, coping scan to email.  • Participated in troubleshooting to identify network system issues and correct them as well as other operational difficulties.  • Troubleshoot network connectivity and routing issues and work directly with peer providers to determine root cause  • Respond to and internally route trouble tickets via support queues  • Provided first response to internal operational service issues  • Coordinate customer conference call and internal participation  • Monitor and respond to all required Operational Support System events  • Directly communicate with customers across the globe  • Configured and deployed ACL's to resolve internal broadcast storms Owner Cynergi Solutions - Tucson, AZ 2003 to 2012 • Designed, coordinated, staffed and managed information technology projects.  • Worked closely with stakeholders to develop project schedules.  • Worked with stakeholders to develop and identify gaps and technical solutions.  • Designed and documented LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, DNS and other networking protocol configurations  • Supported disparate 3rd party applications  • Installed and maintained network infrastructure and developed best practices for network management lifecycle including planning, installation, configuration, security, testing, deployment and backups.  • Implemented network upgrades through CMR modifications  • Installed and tested network switches, routers, firewalls, and wireless devices  • Planned, designed and deployed services to build and maintain Microsoft domains including, Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, WINS etc.  • Responsible for developing and maintaining all aspects of support including, support, upgrades, backups and critical systems uptime.  • Designed, installed and maintained multiple Microsoft server infrastructure(s).  • Created accurate documentation including depictions of networking infrastructure  • Implemented best practices for both network and server infrastructures.  • Implemented and supported network monitoring tools, audited and tested systems for vulnerabilities  • Responded to network and computer security incidents providing problem resolution and technical support  • Diagnosed and solved computer and network related issues  • Administered local and remote user system access to meet organizational security goals  • Provided support for design validation and configuration management  • Monitor system performance to support capacity planning, backups and disaster recovery planning  • Design, build, configure, and deploy new servers and technologies  • Recommend and deploy new architecture and application enhancements  • Monitor all servers and applications, and troubleshot for performance  • Design and implement disaster recovery plan for servers, applications, and databases  • Proven ability to manage risks and make quick informed decisions. Excellent Communications skills, strong ability to work with, train and mentor other team members. Education B.S. in Information Technology/ISS UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX - Tucson, AZ M.S. in Information Security and Assurance Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, LAN/WAN, SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION, VLAN, VMWARE, NETWORKING, VIRTUALIZATION, TECHNICAL SUPPORT, SECURITY, DEPLOYMENT, LAN, MICROSOFT WINDOWS, OPERATIONS, TIME MANAGEMENT, PROBLEM SOLVING, MAINTENANCE, SYSTEM INSTALLATION, MENTORING, TRAINING Additional Information Personal and Technical Skills  • Good Communication Skills, Positive Attitude  • Good Time Management  • Knowledge Sharing and Networking with Co-Workers  • Attention to Detail  • Problem Solving  • Technical Writing Skills  • Security Conscious  • Ability to deconstruct issues    Supported Microsoft Windows Environments: 2k, 2k3, 2k8, 2012  Proficient in Active Directory services:  • AD Users and Computers  • AD Domains and Trusts  • AD Sites and Services  Strong experience in managing Server Infrastructures  Effectively Planned, Installed, Configured and Optimized IT infrastructures to achieve High Availability and Performance  VMware Virtualization image creation and deployment, setup HA and Fault Tolerance,  Remote Monitoring and Maintenance  Configuration of Cisco switches and routers  Ipv4 VLSM  Configuration of Port Security  Configure Vlans & Trunks  Assign access ports to Vlans  • Vlan Creation Switchport Security  • Lan/Wan Administration System Administration  • Technical Support System Installation  • Training & Mentoring Operations & Maintenace  • Supported a multitude of 3rd Party Apps.