System Administrator II <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II System Administrator II - Advantage Engineering & IT Solutions Fort Meade, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator II Advantage Engineering & IT Solutions March 2019 to Present • Install, configure, and support numerous desktop and server based software applications  • Deploy workstations with a standardized desktop load and other specialized software applications.  • Troubleshoot and resolve connectivity issues on various network topologies.  • Analyze system logs and identifying potential issues with computer systems.  • Provide hardware and software support for thick and thin clients.  • Configure and manage Windows and Linux operating systems and install operating system software, troubleshoot, and maintain integrity of system.  • User Atlassian JIRA Service Desk to track ticketing process. System Administrator I Columbia Technology Partners, Inc - Fort Meade, MD June 2018 to Present • Manage the daily activities of configuration and operation of IT systems in a Windows 10 Environment.  • Provide multi-level Tier support for problem identification, diagnosis and resolution of problems using Desktop Director.  • Provide system security updates, create system accounts, and am first responder to system outages.  • Use of the applications HP Network Node Manager, Ipswitch WhatsUp Gold, and Automated Message Handling System (AMHS).  • Use Forefront Identity Manager (FIM), Microsoft Identity Manager (MIM), and Quest ActiveRoles Server to administer user accounts, distribution lists, and security groups.  • Use VSphere to administer and troubleshoot virtual machines and servers located globally. (Power Off, Power On, Reset, Restart Guest OS).  • Administer accounts for VCenter server local user accounts in ESXi. Network Engineer II Applied Integrated Technologies - Fort Meade, MD March 2017 to March 2019 • Assist with setup of new lab environment by racking and configuring hardware (Cisco ASA 5525, McAfee Enterprise Firewall, Cisco Nexus 5548, Cisco Catalyst 3850, and Cisco UCS 6248UP.  • Administer tenant accounts using Active Directory.  • Provide VMware support by using vSphere web client and VMware Horizon View.  • Track Information assurance vulnerability alert (IAVA) and apply accordingly. Enterprise IT Support Center Agent Moja - Annapolis Junction, MD September 2011 to June 2018 • Provide 24x7 technical support to global customers via phone and chat.  • Provide remote assistance of Microsoft Windows Office products (install, remove, and update software).  • Perform Active Directory administration, management, and maintenance for user accounts by creating, deleting, transferring, and modifying.  • Troubleshoot Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) problems in Outlook, Internet Explorer (IE), Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, and other applications.  • Use HP Service Manager 9 (SM9), BMC Remedy Action System, and other ticketing systems to create, modify, and close service requests and tickets.  • Use Cisco Telepresence Management Suite (TMS) v.14 to administrator Video TeleConferences (VTC).  • Serve as Queue Coordinator (QC) by monitoring the tickets based on quality of service, and assign, escalate, and bridge as needed.  • Serve as Service Desk Coordinator (SDC) by assigning and tasking tickets. Systems Engineer II Farfield Systems, Inc - Columbia, MD November 2016 to March 2017 • Configured Access Control Server (ACS) for implementation of Cisco Terminal Access Controller Access Control System (TACACS) on devices.  • Conducted research to satisfy the requirement of authentication of all endpoints on the network by using port security, vlan separation, and Access Control Lists (ACLs).  • Racked hardware for new lab setup. Network Administrator General Dynamics - Fort Meade, MD August 2007 to November 2016 • Configure Cisco Switches (Catalyst Models: 2940, 3550, and 4506).  • Configure Taclanes (KG-175 Taclane E-100, KG175A, KG175B, KG175D).  • Perform port management by using the command prompt or putty to telnet and Secure Shell (SSH) to switches and routers to enable, disable, and administer ports.  • Use Solarwinds Orion software to monitor LAN/WAN networks.  • Use Microsoft Windows Server 2000 and 2003 for account management.  • Install and configure Cisco Telepresence EX60 and EX90 for Visual Teleconferencing (VTC) communication.  • Assist with the management of the Blackberry server and user accounts using Blackberry Enterprise Server (BES) and Blackberry Desktop Manager. Senior Data Systems Analyst Axom Technologies - Fort Meade, MD March 2011 to September 2011 • Troubleshoot and provide 24/7 support for deployed Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) systems.  • Responsible for ensuring software maintenance, mission optimization, and ongoing dataflow of operations for multiple sites.  • Use WhatsUp Gold Professional in addition to department specific software and applications to monitor and maintain over 100 systems for missions.  • Use ticketing tool to track service issues. Systems Administrator III November 2009 to March 2011 • Provide support to users of printers, desktops, and servers at remote locations.  • Use Windows Server 2000/2003 to provide account management, software installation, and Microsoft Office (2003/2007) troubleshooting.  • Perform Active Directory administration, management, and maintenance for user accounts.  • Troubleshoot Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) problems in Outlook, Internet Explorer (IE), Mozilla Firefox, and other applications.  • Use BMC Remedy Action Request Systems and other systems to manage ticket process from creation to completion. Digital Scanning Technician Adecco - Aquasco, MD July 2007 to August 2007 • Prepared and scanned over 1000 Chalk Point Generating Station machinery images daily using image enhancement software.  • Created workgroup consisting of 4 Intel Xeon Servers to communicate to transfer necessary scanned images.  • Set up APC Smart-UPS 2200 to protect Crystal G600 Wide Format Scanner and Hawk Eye G46 Scanner. Systems Administrator Caldwell Technology Solutions - Bowie, MD July 2006 to July 2007 • Installed, deployed, and integrated service packs, patches, and hotfixes using Windows Update, Automatic Updates, and Group Policies.  • Maintained company website using ASP.NET web application framework and PC Recruiter application tracking software.  • Secured mail servers by configuring and monitoring Cisco Pix Firewall, Symantec Client Security, and Symantec Mail Security.  • Created effective recovery plan and implemented Iron Mountain Live Vault electronic vaulting providing full, incremental, and differential backups for offsite storage for personal computer and servers.  • Administered employee timesheet access using Deltek Time & Expense.  • Managed Shoretel phone system by setting up and configuring user accounts  • Served as liaison for biometric project while conducting research of biometric, performing site surveys, and coordinating meetings for teaming partners. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Technology University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD December 2006 Bachelor of Arts in Economics University of Maryland - College Park, MD December 2002 Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate Routing & Switching (CCNA Routing & Switching) Cisco Certified Networking Professional Routing and Switching (CCNP Routing & Switching) CompTIA Linux+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Security+ IT Service Management Foundation (based on ITIL®) Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer 2003 (MCSE 2003)