Systems Administrator Intermediate <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Intermediate Systems Administrator Intermediate Work Experience Systems Administrator Intermediate Kaiser Permanente - Lake Oswego, OR October 2016 to August 2019 Part of the intake team that assists with onboarding go-live projects. Also was responsible for maintaining the stability of healthcare applications in multiple regions and facility sites.  • Conducted intake interviews with business partners and application teams to collect data for onboarding requests that require funding for annual support; assisting with creating the estimates and seeing them through the approval process to meet the go-live date.  • Created a high-level tracking sheet using MS Excel for the purpose of tracking financial information for application onboarding projects between the years 2018 - 2020.    • Used tableau for portfolio analysis and reported the findings to the Managers and Executive Director, as part of tracking the yearly budget on application projects.    • Administration and day-to-day management of the Server Infrastructure with a focus on Windows 2008/2012, Exchange, MS SQL, MS SharePoint and Active Directory.  • Used Windows PowerShell to collect server data and automatically store that information in a Microsoft SQL Server.    System Administrator Intermediate,  • Strictly adhered to policies in the use of Service Now for all incidents, changes, problems, and communication with end users and stakeholders  • Correlated incident trends into problem management and executed permanent fixes.  • Reviewed and interpreted alerts and provided advanced response, analysis and incident management.  • Provided technical support of four applications in a 24x7 environment., that included 32 sites.  • Management a network in four regions, consisting of 42 servers (Prod and Non-Prod), 25 DR servers and end-user groups ranging around 400+ users.  • Technical problem isolation and resolution capability to support the business partner, by addressing their needs and troubleshooting technical issues.  • Captured data from the HL7 server logs to analyze and troubleshoot ADT HL7 messages.  • Coordinated and implemented a wide range of projects; including server consolidations, migrations and upgrades. Deploying the change releases in non-production server environments to validate the quality of data, before implemented the changes in the production environments for go-live. Which also includes User Access Testing of over 350+ applications.  • Implemented quarterly purge and rebuild of databases in multiple regions, as part of routine maintenance of the databases. Database Analyst Intern June 2016 to October 2016 Created a database schema map in preparation to export archived data from the existing incident database in Lotus Notes into SharePoint. For the purpose of being used as a prototype solution for a new repository document-share system for migration purposes.  • Developed a migration plan and top three migration risks for moving data from old repository to a new repository.  • Created a UML style schema to map out the database tables in order to capture archived data.  • Data mined archived data from a meta data repository for exporting it into in a new repository.  • Collaborated with the Mainframe Development Leads to develop new repository schema.  • Used tableau to report data to the Mainframe Development Leads and Managers.  • Setup a homepage in the groups MS SharePoint site and designed it to be ready to store data. Supervisor/Technician Holistic Pet Veterinary Clinic - Tigard, OR April 2007 to June 2016 Responsible for supervising a medical staff of 10, along with managing a technical project to automate patient intake forms.  • Acted as a consultant to the stakeholder, then developed a business plan for automating their intake forms from hard copy to electronic form to increase efficiency in the daily workflow.  • Used MS Visio to design UML diagrams for the web pages.  • Generated web pages in ASP.NET coded in C# designed for the intake forms.  • Constructed a database in MS SQL Server 20012 matching the tables identical to the ones used in the clinic's existing database.  • Used Open Database Connectivity to connect the web pages to the new database and Windows Communication Foundation to create an interface between the existing database and the new database. Education Bachelor's in Information Systems Oregon Institute of Technology - Wilsonville, OR January 2017 to March 2019 Associate in Computer information Systems Chemeketa Community College - Salem, OR January 2011 to December 2013 Skills Database, Database design, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Relational database, Sql, Ms project, Sharepoint, Tableau, Ajax, Asp, Asp.net, C#, Html, Javascript, Php, Software integration, Visio, Active directory Links http://linkedin.com/in/brian-blackburn-informatics Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Microsoft 365 Productivity Suite and Teams • PowerShell • SQL Server  • Windows Server 2008/2012 R2 • Active Directory • Service Now  • Visio • OneNote • MS Project, Access  • SharePoint • UNIX/Linux • Oracle Java  • JavaScript, Ajax • C# • HTML  • FTP • Visual Paradigm • Visual Studios  • ASP.NET • Crystal Reports • Tableau  • Oracle PL/SQL • IBM Lotus Notes • PHP  ADVANCED TECHNICAL SKIILLS  • Advanced Database Applications Programming • Hardware/Software Integration  • Business Systems Analyst • Networking  • Business Intelligence • Relational Database Design  • Database Management • Health Care systems & Policy