Patching and Compliance/ System Engineer Patching and Compliance/<span class="hl">System</span> Engineer Patching and Compliance/ System Engineer - AIG New York, NY • 10+ years of professional experience Vmware Virtualization and Windows 2008/2003 Operating Systems.  • Extensive professional experience on Windows 2012 Server Operating Systems.  • Extensive working experience on building and managing Windows 2012 servers.  • Hands on Experience with Windows Server Patching with Tanium, BladeLogic, SCCM and WSUS.  • Deployed and configured SCCM 2012 R2 environment for server patching.  • Strong troubleshooting experience with Windows Server Patching issues.  • Vulnerability Management by enforcing Compliance Settings and Patching Windows Servers.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in VMware Virtualization  • Experience with VMware VSphere 5/5.5, ESXi 5.0/5.5/6.0 and VMware VCenter 5/6.0, VMotion, Storage VMotion, HA, DRS, Host Profiles, VApp, VMware VCenter Converter  • Extensive hands on experience with design and implementation of enterprise wide Virtualization Projects with VMware and Vblock  • Experience in the V2V and P2V migration of Physical servers to VMware ESX hosts.  • Installing VMware ESX and ESXi Servers on Cisco UCS and HP blade servers with Flex 10 Networking.  • Experience in Windows clustering Administration and troubleshooting.  • Knowledge of maintaining Business Continuity and performing Disaster Recovery (DR) using VMware Site Recovery Manager (SRM)  • Hands on experience in updating / upgrading ESX servers, Virtual Center servers and windows virtual machines using VMware Update manager and manual upgrades for Patching  • Installation and configuration of Windows Server 2003, 2008 R2 and 2012 R2.  • Experience managing and administering Windows 2008 and 2003 based Domain controllers, Backup / Additional Domain Controllers  • Experience installing, configuring & administering Network services like DNS, DHCP, WINS and WSUS  • Supported a large scale Data Center projects including server installation, hardware maintenance, and break/fix activities  • Performed system administration activities, security policies and monitored system performance both at software and hardware levels  • Strong interpersonal communication and technical skills in software, hardware and networking which help me to quickly identify and resolve issues. Work Experience Patching and Compliance/ System Engineer AIG - Fort Worth, TX September 2018 to Present • Hands on Experience with Deploying Security Patches to Enterprise Environment of 13000+ Servers during Prod, Non-Prod and Alternate Patch Cycles.  • Levraging Tanium and BladeLogic to Schedule and Deploy Patches from WSUS Patch Catalogue.  • Created and executed Patch deployments in Tanium.  • Used Splunk for patch log analysis.  • Created Dashboards in Splunk to get an overview of post patching progress.  • Extensive experience troubleshooting Patching errors, manually fixing failed patches and performing RCA in collaboration with Microsoft.  • Change Management for Patching activity and notifications for all Stakeholders.  • Performed Vulnerability management by deploying security settings on Windows 2003, 2008 R2 and 2012 Servers using BladeLogic, Tanium deployment packages, GPO's and Patches.  • Incident and Task management using ServiceNow.  • Extensively created Documentation for patching process and patching error code RCA. Wintel Architect AIG - Fort Worth, TX November 2016 to May 2018 • Build Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise and Windows Server 2012 on Dell PowerEdge rack mount servers.  • Experience with building templates and deploying Server 2008 R2, Server 2012 in vCenter 5.5/6.0 virtualized environment.  • Server Patching and Hardning after deployment using BMC Bladelogic Automation tool.  • Provide OS configuration support and troubleshooting issues for the end client on the newly deployed servers.  • Helped turn UAT servers to Production environment by executing Go-Live procedure by running a battery of compliance and Security scans and getting them compliant to strict AIG standards.  • Discovery of un-used servers and Identify them for decommissioning.  • Performing the WINTEL decommissioning process to reclaim server resources like IP, DNS, WINS, SAN storage and server hardware.  • Ensuring CMDB is updated and accurate after decommission.  • Experience with data migration tools like Robocopy and Secure Copy which were used extensively to support divestiture projects. Windows/VMware Systems Engineer Chicago Housing Authority - Chicago, IL July 2016 to November 2016 Roles & Responsibility:  • Installing and configuring SCCM 2012 R2 on Windows 2012 servers.  • Installing pre-requisites along with WSUS and setting up of service accounts for SCCM 2012 R2.  • Configured the Site Boundary and used Active Directory discovery method to find all the servers and workstations within the environment.  • Creating Device Collections, Software Pakages & Software Update Points (SUP's) in SCCM 2012.  • Deploying software packages to users desktops and servers using SCCM 2012 R2.  • Server patching and updating using SCCM 2012 R2 deployment pakages and creating an Automatic Deployment Rule (ADR) to schedule timely updates for Tier 1/2/3 servers within the environment.  • Configured Software Metering within SCCM 2012 R2 to monitor software usage and licensing within the environment and generating reports.  • Upgrading HP Proliant G6/G7 series servers from ESXi 5.0/5.5 to ESXi 6.0.  • Performing Patching and Firmware upgrades on HP Proliant G6/G7 servers.  • Updating ESXi 6.0 to the latest firmware using VIB packages.  • Upgrading HP Proliant G6/G7 servers running ESXi 6.0 from 1Gbps network to 10Gbps network and migrating them from Standard Switch to Distributed Switch for centralized management.  • Deploying Windows 2012 VM's on ESXi 6.0 hosts managed using vCenter 6.0.  • Migrating ESXi hosts from Dell storage to Compelnt storage by re-configuring zoning in fabric manager.  • Worked on support tickets in ServicePro for users having issues with Printing through Citrix and Application launch issues through Citrix.  • Used Citrix AppCenter to monitor Xenapp 6.5 Farm and user ICA sessions.  • Troubleshooting Trusted Root Certificate issues for users in the Citrix environment. Wintel Build Engineer AIG - Fort Worth, TX September 2013 to March 2016 Roles & Responsibility:  • Configuration and Implementation of VMware vSphere 5.0 with Enterprise Plus Features of Distributed switch, Host Profiles, EMC VSI including VCenter, ESXi Hosts, Update manager, vSphere client, and Virtual machines tools.  • Installing and configuring ESXi 5.0 hosts, creating new clusters and adding ESXi hosts to clusters.  • Administered VM's and ESXi hosts across 4 Datacenters Running over 5000 VMs and 500+ ESXi hosts.  • Worked intensively on Datacenter migration/consolidation by using VMware vConverter for P2V/V2V conversions.  • Administering Windows servers 2003/2008 Active Directory, DNS, DHCP and building new windows physical/virtual servers as per the requirement of the project.  • Used IP control tool for reserving Static IP and DHCP MAC reservations including VIP's. Creaded A and PTR records in DNS.  • Extensively involved in building new Windows 2003, 2008 and 2012 virtual servers using several deployment techniques namely templates (deploying from templates and using Customization Specifications Manager), cloning VM's, creating shells (manually and using powershell scripting) and installing fresh manual OS builds in addition to majority of builds via BMC BladeLogic automation tool.  • Reviewd BOM's submitted by Soultion Architects for new build requirements and suggested improvements based on infrastructure and hardware resource availability.  • Post provisioning, patching and server hardening on Windows 2003, 2008 and 2012 servers using BMC BladeLogic automation tool.  • Installation and configuration of physical servers with Windows 2008 and 2012 OS, on dell M710HD and M910HD blades.  • Experience on configuring Dell Poweredge R720, R730 and M710, M910 blades on Dell PowerEdge M1000e chassis and configuring the chassis using Chassis Management Contraoller(CMC).  • Experience in installing ESXi5.0 on blade servers remotely by using iDRAC.  • Involded in Sitewide and Bi-Monthly Disaster recovery tests across 2 datacenters.  • Experience with migrating and recovering Domain controllers into isolation.  • Worked on a strict deadling by co-ordinating with Network, storage and Wintel teams to Recover Windows 2003 and 2008 Physical and Virtual servers into isolation. Windows/VMware Administrator AXOLOTL, Location - Sanjose, CA, US April 2012 to August 2013 Roles & Responsibilty:  • Successfully designed and implemented VMware ESX servers for server consolidation.  • Built Windows 2003/2008 Wintel Servers on standalone and blade servers based on application design and deployed stack on these servers.  • Supported 5000+ Microsoft Active Directory and Exchange users on Wintel server environment.  • Install, configure and manage DHCP and DNS servers  • Installed VMware ESX server 4.0 in a total of 360 ESX's, 4000+ servers & four VC's. Created virtual machines on ESX Servers. Created standard images and deployed servers from the images.  • Configured VMware on clustered environment, Implemented VMotion, Virtualized Windows servers using VMware Converter P2V and setup Lab Manager.  • Installation and configuration of VMware Virtual Center Server  • P2V migration using VMware converter and PlateSpin  • Upgrading from Vi3 to vSphere4, Upgrading from vSphere4 to vSphere 4.1  • Experience in updating/upgrading ESX/ESXi servers, Virtual Center servers and windows virtual machines using VMware Update manager and manual upgrades.  • Installing and configuring Site Recovery Manager.  • Knowledge of maintaining Business Continuity and performing Disaster Recovery (DR) using VMware Site Recovery Manager (SRM).  • Creating templates and deploying through templates  • Taking snapshot's according to system owner's requirement  • Managing Virtual center permissions  • Using FT for mission critical Virtual Machines  • Creating and Managing VMware cluster with HA and DRS  • Creating and Managing resource pools for Virtual Machines  • Upgrades and updates using VMware Host update utility  • Performance monitoring and tuning for ESX Servers, Virtual Center Server and Virtual Machines  • Creating Virtual switch, Configuring Virtual switch settings and policies VMware Systems Administrator TARGET DATA, Location - Chicago, IL February 2011 to March 2012 Roles & Responsibilty:  • Designed and administrated the environment consisting of over 90 ESX hosts and 1200 Virtual machines environments at different Geographical locations  • Designed and successfully implemented VMware ESX servers for server consolidation  • Installed VMware ESX server 4.1/4.0 and created virtual machines on ESX Servers. Created standard templates and deployed virtual machines from these templates  • Load Testing on the VMware Lab Manager/VCloud director deployment with DR Testing on SRM  • Installed, Configured and administered ESX 4.1 on HP Blade servers using HP onboard administrator for the HP Blade chassis & enclosures and Cisco UCS blades.  • Installed Management Server (VCenter Server) instances to enable centralized management of multiple hosts  • Linked Different Vcenter servers using linked mode to have a single instance of Vsphere client to manage the whole Virtual environment  • Creating and managing Virtual Machines and Templates, worked with clones and snapshots of Virtual Machines  • Configured VMware on clustered environment, implemented migration of virtual machines using VMotion, Virtualized Windows servers using VMware Converter and Platespin PowerConvert.  • Hot and cold cloning of Virtual Machines using VMware Converter.  • Configured VMware HA, VMware DRS in acquiring higher efficiency for VMware Infrastructure  • Installed and worked on VMware Site Recovery Manager (SRM 4.0) for the disaster recovery and managed recovery plans  • Analyzing the VM-support logs for ESX servers and Virtual Center logs to diagnose the root cause for the problem  • Used Avocent DS View Module for the remote server access to the Dell rack servers  • Defined the Patch Management process for the VMware Environment to upgrade the Hosts and VM's and Successful completion of Update Manager Installation in all the Environments.  • Performed hardware replacement and troubleshooting for the Dell Rack servers and HP Blade servers  • Used different Administration and support tools(Veeam Backup-FastSCP) to perform regular backup and restore of the virtual machines disks and data  • Conducted VMware Virtualization Assessments to recommend consolidation scenarios and project cost savings associated with virtualization for clients.  • Windows clustering Administration and troubleshooting VMware Systems Administrator MEDCO, Locaiton - Franklin Lakes, NJ December 2009 to January 2011 Roles & Responsibilty:  • Installed VMware VSphere 4 and created virtual machines on ESX 4.0 Servers. Created standard images and deployed servers from the images.  • Designed and successfully implemented VMware ESX 4.0 servers for server consolidation.  • Worked as Technical Lead on various infrastructure projects surrounding Servers consolidation, Physical to Virtual Migrations, Storage and Server Management.  • Worked on Central Management Server (VCenter Server) to manage all the ESX hosts in the datacenter.  • Creating and managing Virtual Machines and Templates. Working with snapshots of Virtual Machines.  • Installed and Tested VMware Site Recovery Manager (SRM 2.0/4.0) for the disaster recovery and managed recovery plans  • Involved with designing and implementing VMware backup products and disaster recovery solutions  • Installed & configured VMware virtual center for production & DR site.  • Perform server consolidation using VMware Converter to convert physical machines to virtual machines in a production environment.  • Involved in VMware updates manager to install & troubleshoot patches and updates on ESX hosts and virtual machines.  • Virtualized Windows server Migration using VMware Converter, PlateSpin PowerConvert.  • Hot and Cold Cloning of Virtual Machines using VMware Converter.  • Configured VMware HA, VMware DRS and Fault Tolerance in acquiring higher efficiency for VMware Virtual Infrastructure  • Worked on VMware Update Manager for updating or patching for all the ESX hosts and Virtual machines  • Integrated the HP SAN volumes to the Virtual Infrastructure to store the Virtual Machine files  • Analyzing the VM-support logs for ESX servers and Virtual Center logs to diagnose the root cause for the problem.  • Administering and managing DHCP and DNS servers Technical Consultant Pitney Bowes, Location - Troy, MI September 2008 to November 2009 Roles & Responsibilty:  • Installing, configuring, administration of Windows 2008 Wintel servers, Active Directory Services, DNS, DHCP, FTP, WSUS, IIS Web Server and SQL Database Server, System Management Servers (SMS) servers.  • Experienced with x86 / x64 Intel, HP, IBM & Dell hardware like rack-mounted servers, tower servers, desktop, laptop and other peripherals.  • Managing Exchange 2003 servers and troubleshooting issues related to User and group accounts, mail delivery, configuring MX records to enable and disable domain.  • Responsible for Active directory, GPO, Domain users, Managing users and groups and given appropriate permissions and privilege to access our LAN and Domain environment.  • Configured Terminal Server to access to the servers using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).  • Excellent understanding of SAN, NAS storage architecture.  • Responsible for Security Patch Management and Deployment to all clients using Microsoft WSUS.  • Installing, configuring, administering, troubleshooting VMware server on ESX platform and VMware client, workstation.  • Developed design documents for application deployment and to standardize VMware platform deployment. Documentation on best practices, performance tuning, and capacity management in the virtual environment.  • Installation and Configuration of networks, router/switches configuration and wireless access point/router with security, TCP/IP, VPN, Content Filtering, Access Control Lists on router/switches, VLANs (port mapping, naming etc.), and routing IP address in both LAN/WAN and wireless networks.  • Analyze, log, track complex software and hardware matters of significance pertaining to networking connectivity issues, printer, server, and application to meet business needs. Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Dns, Virtualization, Change management, Bmc, R2, Srm, Avamar, Gui, Microsoft windows, Windows 2003, Capacity planning Additional Information Technical Skills:  Core VMware Virtualization Skills  ESXi 5.0/5.5/6.0, VSphere 5.0/5.5, vCenter Server 5.0/6.0, P2V, V2V, Storage VMotion, HA, DRS, SRM 4.0, Host Profiles, , VMware Vsphere Client,, Events and Alerts, Capacity Planning, VMware Converter    DR/P2V Tool Platespin migrator, VMware Converter and Double take DR tools  Patching Tools Tanium, BladeLogic, SCCM, WSUS  Server Operating Systems Microsoft Windows 2003 R2, 2008 R2, 2012 R2  Server Services Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP, Clean Server Installation/Migration  Management Tools  HP Onboard Administrator, HP Virtual Connect Manager, Avocent DS View, Putty, Service Now Change Management Software, Microsoft Robocopy GUI, BMC Bladelogic, HP ILO, Dell iDRAC    Backup Tools Networker, Avamar  Server/Storage Hardware HP blades C7000, HP Proliant G6/G7, Dell Power Edge Servers,Cisco UCS