Systems Administrator & Support Specialist <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> &amp; Support Specialist Systems Administrator & Support Specialist Normal, IL Technical professional leveraging more than a decade of hands-on experience in managing infrastructure, networking solutions, and information security.    I am currently finishing my master's in project management.    The following are my future position preferences:  - full-time (only; no consulting Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator & Support Specialist Illinois State University - Normal, IL 2015 to Present Designed, deployed, and administered Windows, Mac, and Linux desktop systems, Windows and Linux servers; VMware vCenter servers, vSphere hosts, and Horizon infrastructure; and OpenStack clusters. Devised, implemented and maintained MSSQL, MySQL, and no-SQL databases servers and client systems. Managed Linux hosts via Spacewalk/Satellite and Microsoft Windows hosts via SCCM. Threat and security monitoring and management. Configured and deployed SCCM packages. Provided desktop and server support to the College of Applied Sciences and Technology at Illinois State University.  Key Achievements:  * Implemented a free and open source remote desktop solutions that saved thousands of dollars annually from licensing fees while improving compatibility and accessibility for Linux users.  * Greatly enhanced systems monitoring, security and management by implementing centralized monitoring and management solutions.  * Automated many tasks through BASH and Powershell scripting Signal Support Specialist US Army - St. Louis, MO 2007 to 2011 Directed the flow of data and information across the entire organization. Secured the integrity of all information systems across departments. Identified and managed classified network infrastructure. Monitored all communication encryption for various types of systems. Facilitated hands-on training for new recruits and civilian contractors on the proper use of diverse equipment. Managed network infrastructure, authentication systems, computers, and MFCs, VOIP devices and various Cisco routers and switches.  Key Achievements:  * Collaborated in the creation of standard operating procedures for prototype equipment for adaptation into the Army-wide Air Defense Artillery instructional program.  * Earned several awards including: Army Commendation Medal (2x), Army Achievement Medal (3x), Army Good Conduct Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Non-Commissioned Officer Professional and Development, Ribbon and Specialist Promotable status. Proprietor Netfocusing - Plainfield, IL 2001 to 2006 Established and operated a computer and networking business catering to residential and business clients. Built and sold machines from barebones. Delivered top-of-the line technical support and customer service to new and recurring patrons.  Key Achievements:  * Expanded and sustained the business through effective and efficient networking solutions.  * Commended for highly professional and ethical client relations. Education Bachelor's in Ethics & Political Theory Illinois State University - Normal, IL Skills Linux (5 years), Mac (5 years), networking (6 years), training (5 years), Windows Server (10+ years), Active Directory, Linux Administrator, VMware (5 years), System Admin, System Administrator, Red Hat, SCCM Links http://thesudolife.com Military Service Branch: US Army Service Country: United States Rank: SPC January 2007 to January 2011 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Security+ Present RHCSA (Red Hat Certified System Administrator) March 2017 170-111-793  https://www.redhat.com/rhtapps/services/certifications/badge/verify/E4JL2DSY6CD4Y73LSINWSV34YUAEQU3CUPSQX2KSDXT6RW46LQ3T7ULZ55KZZ56SKO7EQ3ETTLYZQ4U5NQYTCNA62RUWOCM34WWBUYQ= COA (Certified Openstack Administrator June 2018 COA-1800-001363-0100  https://cert.openstack.org/coa/coa-verify Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  • Extensive technical knowledge in infrastructure design, deployment, and administration of Windows, Mac, and Linux systems and excellent experience in virtual infrastructure management.  • Expert in the implementation of scalable, efficient, and effective networking solutions.  • Strong leadership qualities with highly commended skills in hands-on training and human resource development.  • Equipped with up-to-date training and current certifications from recognized organizations such as Red Hat and CompTIA.    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Platforms: Windows, Mac OS, Linux, VMware vCenter, VMware Horizon, OpenStack, Apache Hadoop  Tools and products:  Microsoft SQL, MySQL, Microsoft SCCM, Microsoft WDS, Graylog, IIS, Apache (HTTP server), GIT, Kickstart, BASH, Ansible, PowerShell and PowerCLI scripting and automation