QUEUE Manager QUEUE Manager System Administrator Rockville, MD • Seasoned IT consultant with more than 30 years of professional experience and more than 20 years of end-user support experience  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills  • Broad experience in team, project, budget, and account management  • Provided total IA support for the windows machines. STIG compliance, WSUS updates, and upgrades  • Working knowledge of broad range of hardware, software, applications, and networking technology  • Software expertise spanning all Microsoft Windows operating systems and Office applications, as well as Active Directory, Terminal Services, Hypervisor, and VMWare.  • Experience with Jira and Confluence.  • Capable of providing training at an advanced level Work Experience QUEUE Manager B.E.A.T.LLC - Rockville, MD November 2018 to Present ·  Hel Desk Queue Manager at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center.  ·  Provide the best possible assistance for the customers at Walter Reed.  ·  Using Remedy to oversee the queues of incident reports  ·  Create reports on queue progress for upper level management..  ·  Troubleshoot and provide technical support as needed with applications and hardware as needed. System Administrator Dynamic Animation Systems October 2017 to October 2018 • System Administrator for the Windows machines.  • Maintaining and updating these machines using WSUS and direct updates as necessary.  • Upgrading windows 7 machines to windows 10, and bringing them into IA compliance.  • Create and administer Virtual Machines using Windows Hypervisor, Linux KVM, and VmWare VSphere.  • Troubleshoot and provide technical support and solutions to users.  • Provide technical support to air, surface, and submarine projects involving Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) and Undersea Warfare (USW) training, tactical/operational documentation, military designs and other efforts requiring military operations expertise. Principal Systems Analyst General Dynamics October 2013 to October 2017 • System Administrator for the Windows machines.  • Maintaining and updating these machines using WSUS and direct updates as necessary.  • Upgrading windows 7 machines to windows 10, and bringing them into IA compliance.  • Create and administer Virtual Machines using Windows Hypervisor and VmWare VSphere.  • Troubleshoot and provide technical support and solutions to users.  • Provide technical support to air, surface, and submarine projects involving Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) and Undersea Warfare (USW) training, tactical/operational documentation, military designs and other efforts requiring military operations expertise. Systems Analyst Alion Science and Technology March 2008 to October 2013 • Provide technical support to air, surface, and submarine projects involving Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) and Undersea Warfare (USW) training, tactical/operational documentation, military designs and other efforts requiring military operations expertise.  • Provide system certification and accreditation expertise to the customer.  • Define systems objectives and prepare system design specifications to meet these requirements.  • Perform quality assurance review of specifications for internal and external delivery.  • Analyze detailed systems factors, including input and output requirements, information flow, hardware and software requirements, and reliability characteristics.  • Troubleshoot and provide technical support and solutions to users. WIN2K System Administrator CACI Corporation February 2002 to March 2008 • Served as senior system administrator for Navy Enterprise Maintenance Automated Information System (NEMAIS) - an enterprise resource planning data center supporting 3,500 Navy and civilian workers worldwide.  • Execute day-to-day operations of NEMAIS Data Center, including building, monitoring, and maintenance of 300 servers and workstations.  • Support conversion of Terminal Server Farm from Tarantella to Citrix.  • Build servers on Windows 2003 and Windows 2000, as well as workstations on Windows XP and Windows 2000.  • Deployed InTrust Software packages for Enterprise Auditing, InTrust package for ERDisk, and Active Directory Recovery, as well as the Ecora software package Enterprise Auditor.  • Worked in support of build out of new data center, including continuity of operations efforts to replicate main network and stand up failover disaster recovery site.  • Supported development and implementation of NEMAIS Operations Department.  • Provided both custom and industry standard C2 hardening and software installation required for initial standup of NETS and NEMAIS projects. Education Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration St. Leo College