Systems Administrator, Operations <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Operations Systems Engineer Litchfield Park, AZ Systems Design: Creates engineering specifications from high-level designs provided by Architects, and makes these solutions executable. Systems Administration: Supports virtual, cloud, physical, web, app, and database servers; Operating Systems, distributed applications, middleware, load balancers, clusters, network connectivity, CIDR subnetting, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSL/TLS, FTP, SFTP, SNMP; SAN, and NAS; Active Directory, and Windows domains. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator, Operations Charles Schwab & Co - Phoenix, AZ May 2018 to May 2019 Managed Windows/Linux,Virtual/Physical servers, and infrastructure.  Used Novell Operations Center to monitor applications, servers, SAN arrays, and NAS Filers. Supported F5 Load Balancing with HP Operations Orchestration. Shutdown/started services on Big Data servers. Recycled Pivotal Cloud Foundry services, Hosted .NET and Java web application services, IIS server app pools, and WebSphere/IHS instances. Ran PowerShell scripts to recycle services on Windows servers. Used MSFCM to troubleshoot SQL Server clusters. Used Cisco UCS Manager for hardware support of Blade Chassis and Blade/VMware ESXi Servers. Ran Splunk queries for health checks, and troubleshooting of applications.  Unlocked service accounts in Active Directory. Operating Systems Engineer, Configuration Engineering Wells Fargo - Phoenix, AZ April 2017 to December 2017 Created designs/blueprints for migration of virtual infrastructure to IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service) in the Private Cloud, based on OpenStack and VMware ESXi clusters. Created blueprints for New Infrastructure - RHEL 7.4 servers with Blue Coat Server Encryption application to protect Cloud data, and MongoDB servers; Tech Refresh - RHEL 5.11/Oracle Database 11.2 servers to RHEL 7.4/Oracle Database 12c servers for Data Warehouse, and RHEL 6/IBM DB2 Enterprise 10.1 database servers to RHEL7.4 IBM DB2 Enterprise 11.1 database servers; NAS Adds - New NAS for Oracle Database hosting environment. Software Adds - Puppet Enterprise Agent 2016/2015, Channel Secure 12, Tripwire 8, uDeploy 6, Autosys 11, and NDM (Network Data Mover) 4.1. Systems Engineer Wells Fargo - Phoenix, AZ September 2016 to February 2017 Supported/troubleshot applications and middleware for Enterprise Risk Management Infrastructure. Deployed web code and SQL code to MS IIS 7.5/Windows 2012 R2/2008 web servers, and  MS SQL 2012/2008/Windows 2012 R2/2008 database servers. Configured the application settings, and connection strings files in Notepad. Used Task Scheduler to automate the deployed applications. Recycled application pools, restarted websites, and restarted IIS as needed. Used SQL Server Management Studio to run database restores from backups for code deployments. Uploaded/managed reports in SQL Server Reporting Services. Used HP Server Automation Agent (HPSA/Opsware) to execute startup/shutdown scripts on IBM WebSphere Application Server AIX 5.3 (Unix) LPAR’s. Remediated SSL certificates on Apache HTTP web servers. Documented technical procedures for patching middleware and upgrading java on Apache HTTP web servers and Apache Tomcat app servers Systems Engineer Arizona Department of Administration - Phoenix, AZ July 2015 to June 2016 Installed/troubleshot/patched Windows 2012 R2, Clustered SQL Server 2012 R2, CentOS Linux 7/6, and SLES 11 servers in Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), and VMware virtual environments. Migrated Amazon machine images across regions. Patched SLES 11 Control-M and Control-D servers (VMware) during scheduled IPL for mainframe LPARs. Supported CA UIM, IPplan, Agile, Jenkins, Tripwire, McAfee ePO Orchestrator Server, McAfee VirusScan Enterprise for Linux, ClamAV antivirus, and Risksense for CVE remediation. Implemented Samba Winbind to join Linux servers to Windows domains, and to authenticate Linux users to Active Directory. Repaired an application backup script on a CentOS Linux server. Configured Group Policy and added DHCP reservations for Windows servers. Set up an IPplan/MySQL (LAMP) Golden Image/zLinux server on z/VM as proof of concept for use on IBM mainframe.Used IBM Wave 1.2 to manage zLinux VMs. Tested Spacewalk 2.4, HPSA/Opsware, SCCM 2012 R2 on Linux, and BMC BladeLogic for automated patch management of Linux servers. Systems Support Analyst Wells Fargo - Phoenix, AZ October 2014 to December 2014 Installed patch bundles to SPARC Solaris 10 VCS 5/VERITAS 4.1 clustered servers. Stopped and restarted VCS cluster's on servers. Troubleshot Solaris OS startup from the OpenBoot ok prompt and opened Hardware ticket's for replacement of memory modules. Upgraded SCSP Agent on servers via HPSA/Opsware. Installed OS patch update, Live Upgrade Zones Support Patch. Unix Operating Systems Engineer, Blueprint Engineering Wells Fargo - Phoenix, AZ February 2014 to October 2014 Created designs/blueprints for New Infrastructure - RHEL 6.4/Apache HTTP web servers in DMZ, and Oracle WebLogic 12.1.1 app servers; Tech Refresh - Solaris 10/Oracle RAC 10g database servers to RHEL 6/Oracle RAC 11gR2 database servers. Software Adds - Red Hat JBoss 7.2, VERITAS Cluster Server; Channel Secure (CA SiteMinder Web Access Manager Agent), CA AutoSys Workload Automation Agent, and IBM Sterling Connect:Direct (NDM) 4.1; Software Upgrades - IBM WebSphere MQ Client 6.0 to 7.5, and Nagios to HP OVO; SAN adds - additional storage capacity for reporting applications; NAS adds - migration of email from MS Exchange servers to NAS filer archives. Unix Operating Systems Engineer, Blueprint Engineering Wells Fargo - Phoenix, AZ April 2012 to June 2013 Created designs/blueprints for the provisioning of New Infrastructure, Tech Refreshes, OS upgrades, Software/Middleware upgrades, SAN, and NAS storage upgrades; including VMware servers, Physical servers, RHEL/Windows/Solaris/AIX servers; Oracle WebLogic 11g, AnthillPro, Oracle Coherence, Apache HTTP/Tomcat, Adobe ColdFusion/IIS and HPOO servers; Oracle RAC 11g and MS SQL 2008 Clusters; LVM, and VxVM volumes; CPU/Memory upgrades on AIX LPARs; SAN migration from Hitachi USPv disk arrays to VSP disk arrays; NetBackup and Avamar backups; FileNET/Tradeview servers in China, and Tivoli Storage Manager servers in the UK and Germany. Systems Support Analyst Wells Fargo - Phoenix, AZ September 2011 to December 2011 Supported AIX, HP-UX, Solaris, RHEL, SuSE servers, in Production, BCP, and test environments. Supported SAN data migrations for IBM DS 8000, HDS USP V, and EMC Symmetrix VMAX disk arrays. Used EMC Grab to gather storage information on hosts. Used HP iLO/Dell DRAC out-of-band management consoles to reboot servers. Installed Hitachi Dynamic Link Manager on AIX 5.3 host for storage device multipathing. Installed packages and patches on Solaris 8 server for replacement of Fibre Channel HBAs. Installed, configured, troubleshot, Sendmail SMTP relay hosts, SVN, and Apache HTTP Servers. Upgraded Oracle Clusterware on nodes to 11gR2. Ran HPSA/Opsware audit and compliance scripts on servers, and remediated servers as needed. Installed VMware tools and supported migration of SuSE 9 VMs Ran scripts to stop and start the DB2 database on the server for SAN fabric migration. Systems Analyst Apollo Group, Inc Access & Identity Management - Phoenix, AZ March 2011 to August 2011 Supported migration of Active Directory/MS Exchange accounts from the BPP College University domain in the UK, to the Apollo Global international domain. Created, configured, troubleshot, user accounts, contacts, mailboxes, Security Groups, and Distribution Groups.  Managed permissions for users, groups, mailboxes and network shares. Identified, wrote documentation on the existing policies, processes, and procedures for access management. Wrote instructions for using Powershell scripting to automate tasks in Windows Server 2008 R2 Active Directory and Exchange Server 2007. Chandler AZ. Contract Wells Fargo - Chandler, AZ August 2009 to December 2010 Systems Support Analyst, Unix. Supported middleware applications on Solaris Unix/Red Hat Linux clustered servers in WebLogic 10/9/8 and WebSphere 6.1/5.1 environments. Used web-based administration consoles and Vi Editor to change configuration settings. Implemented N1SPS and AnthillPro for J2EE code deployments. Managed virtual machines with VMware vSphere client. Performed troubleshooting of HP OpenView 8/7 on Unix/Linux and MS Windows 2003/2000 servers. Administered HP Operations for Unix console to validate health check messages from OVO nodes. Used vastool to troubleshoot user access to Vintela Authentication Services-enabled (VAS) servers. Wrote knowledge base articles; including procedures for using Egenera Pan Manager to manage BladeFrames; replace Blade Servers, and instructions for NetBackup 6.5 Backups/Restores. Network Analyst Expedia - Chandler, AZ September 2008 to October 2008 Supported Linux servers, Windows Server 2003/2000 IIS servers, Domain Controllers, SQL servers, and clustered systems on the WAN. Monitored NetCool, and ProactiveNet alerts for web servers. Monitored alerts for SQL servers in SiteScope. Used F5 BIG-IP and Netscaler load balancing tools to remove servers from rotation, for troubleshooting as needed. Used Sysinternals Suite, Remote Desktop, Task Manager, event logs, to troubleshoot CPU, memory, and disk space utilization on web servers. Restarted services, and rebooted servers. Managed user accounts in Active Directory and BladeLogic. Monitored AS/400 terminal sessions. Unix Analyst Blackboard - Phoenix, AZ December 2007 to May 2008 Managed Optim9000 (On-line Privilege Transaction Info Mgmt) System on HP-UX Unix servers at colleges and universities. Supported student/faculty cardholder access to various functions, and services. Resolved record locks to update transaction information to relational databases. Ran SQL queries/troubleshot cardholder records in IBM Informix and PostgreSQL databases. Configured network connections to debit card readers. Used uptime, ps, top, and bdf to troubleshoot system performance on Unix servers. Used Vi Editor and crontab to apply Daylight Savings Time zone conversions on Unix servers. Set up print queues on Unix servers. Supported Building Blocks Manager, and transaction processing on MS Windows 2003 servers. Network Analyst US Airways - Tempe, AZ February 2007 to May 2007 Implemented Altiris Notification Server and Altiris Deployment Server to provision infrastructure for remote sites on the WAN. Used Altiris console to install Altiris agent on hosts, assign subnets to sites, assign Package Servers to sites, install software application packages to hosts, add system roles to computer collections at new sites, such as Ticket Counter, Baggage Service, Check Out, Gate, and Airport Operations. Built and configured Package Servers for remote Software Delivery. Used administrative tools on the server to troubleshoot connectivity to Altiris agent on the client systems, such as Altiris Carbon Copy, Computer Management Console, Sysinternals Suite, log files, and nbtstat. System Administrator Charles Schwab & Co - Phoenix, AZ February 2006 to December 2006 Supported software applications, hardware, network connectivity for the Service Center, Security, HR, and Internal Audit Departments. Used Active Directory Users and Computers to assign software applications to remote hosts. Implemented Marimba Tuner Administrator 4.6 to install and repair software application packages on. Remote hosts. Performed troubleshooting on systems using Remote Desktop, Timbuktu Pro, and ADSI/WMI query tools. Managed network printers with HP Web JetAdmin. Systems Administrator Honeywell - Phoenix, AZ December 2000 to August 2005 Supported Windows software applications, hardware, client-side network connectivity, for engineers, developers, manufacturing technicians, and engine testers. Managed remote computers with LANDesk 8/7, IBM Tivoli, Server Manager 5.1, Enterprise Administrator, and NWUSER. Recovered  system data with Linux Live CDs and ERD Commander. Cloned systems with Ghost, Sysprep, and Dell X-image. Installed, configured, troubleshot, client-side applications such as Hummingbird Exceed, BlackICE Defender Firewall, Nortel VPN client, PGP, Citrix ICA client, Documentum, eMatrix, File Maker Pro, Microsoft Office, Crystal Reports, and Peoplesoft. Installed, troubleshot, PKI digital certificates for secure identification and authentication of remote users. Ran Oracle Net8 Configuration Assistant and edited the tnsnames.ora file on hosts to resolve network connectivity to Oracle databases. Installed, configured, tested ODBC connections to Oracle and MS SQL servers. Managed McAfee VirusScan, and ePO Agent.  Managed, installed and troubleshot network printers via web browsers. Systems Administrator City of Scottsdale Information Systems - Scottsdale, AZ April 2000 to November 2000 Supported Windows software applications, hardware, client-side network connectivity, for the City Auditor, City Court, City Hall, Finance, HR, and Police Departments. Configured SMS 2.0 Advertised Programs Agent on hosts, for automated software distribution to the clients. Managed NTFS/Share permissions on systems for users and groups. Used Ghost to backup/restore system settings, applications, files, and used Partition Magic to re-size partitions for hardware/software upgrades. Education Network+. Microsoft Windows 2000 Server. in Computer Networking GateWay Community College - Phoenix, AZ January 2001 to June 2001 Skills DATABASE, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, SQL, System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin, Linux, DNS, Powershell, SCCM, AWS Certifications/Licenses A+ October 1996 to Present