Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - Excelitas Technologies Chandler, AZ To obtain a challenging, full-time position as a Sr. Systems/Windows Administrator with opportunities to architect, develop, monitor, and maintain IT infrastructures with emphasis on Active Directory, Exchange/O365, Virtualization, Enterprise Storage/Backup, and Security Analysis/Remediations.  Standout Skills: Planning, Preparation, Execution, Communication, and Troubleshooting. Work Experience Systems Engineer Excelitas Technologies - Fremont, CA July 2015 to Present My main responsibilities center around the Global Infrastructure at Excelitas Technologies. I originally worked out of the Excelitas Fremont CA office, which housed the main Excelitas Datacenter. I then moved to Arizona in early 2018, maintaining my current job responsibilities, and becoming a full-time remote employee. The transition has worked out well and some of my current projects include: Major Datacenter migration(s) to a Colocation in Reston, VA using Zerto. Global rollout of a new backup system - Cohesity. Global upgrade of VMware to ESXi 6.x. Hardware/Hypervisor migrations from recent company acquisitions. In addition, I support the global Excelitas infrastructure on a daily basis. Sr. Systems Administrator Pace Americas - San Jose, CA January 2014 to June 2015 Aurora Networks was acquired by Pace PLC. I joined the Pace IT server group during the acquisition **  Main Responsibilities were to continue supporting the Aurora Networks server environment and help/lead integration projects. Some of my projects included leading the migration of the factory floor systems to a new environment in preparation for a complete transfer to a 3rd party manufacturer. In addition to integration activities, I supported the Global VMware infrastructure at Pace. Another project I worked on was a global rollout of Evault Backup for all Pace/Aurora servers. I migrated all Aurora resources to Pace while learning and supporting the Pace environment. Sr. Systems Administrator Aurora Networks - Santa Clara, CA October 2011 to January 2014 Main Responsibilities were to support all aspects of the Aurora Networks environment with emphasis on: Active Directory 2008 R2, Exchange 2007, VSphere 5.1, Hitachi and Dell Storage Systems, Blackberry Server, Trend Micro OfficeScan, PRTG Network Monitor, Network Switches (Cisco, Dell, Netgear), Forticlient Firewalls, and StorageCraft corporate backup. Some of my projects included: 1) Migrating all legacy iSCSI storage to new Fiber connected storage. 2) Upgrading Corporate backup environment (StorageCraft and Crashplan) to latest version. 3) Upgrading VMWare environment to latest version 5.1. In addition to System Administration and server/storage projects, I also handled all the desktop support at Aurora Networks. Sr. Systems Administrator Endicia - Palo Alto, CA May 2011 to October 2011 Main Responsibilities were to support: Active Directory 2003/2008 R2, Exchange 2003, VSphere, F5 Load Balancers, Blackberry Server, McAfee ePO, Microsoft SCOM, WSUS, and DPM, EMC SAN, and all Windows Server Support. I was involved in three environments at Endicia - Corp, Prod, and LaPoste. I was mainly responsible for Corp (the Endicia users) and LaPoste (which is a website co-located in London and San Jose). I supported all aspects of the infrastructure in those two environments as well as certain aspects of the Prod environment, which is the main US facing website. My first project was upgrading Corp from ESX 3.5 to ESX4.1i. Subsequent projects included infrastructure upgrades all over the board and stabilizing certain items like monitoring (MS Ops Manager, Orion), backups, and assisting in new website rollouts. I also participated in the on-call, emergency response team rotation. Sr. Systems/Windows Administrator Dionex Corporation - Sunnyvale, CA November 2007 to May 2011 Main Responsibilities were to support: Active Directory 2003/2008 R2, Exchange 2003, VSphere, Commvault Backup, Symantec EPP and all Windows Server Support. I had three main projects when I started Dionex: 1) Build a VMware (ESX 3.5 at the time) Environment from scratch, 2) Organize, Consolidate, and Enhance the AD Infrastructure, and 3) Consolidate and Improve the Exchange 2003 Environment. Each project consisted of completely "re-working" the current environment, replacing old hardware, and stabilizing/optimizing the infrastructure going forward. In addition to projects, my current daily activities include managing the Global Mail Filter(Barracuda), maintaining the Patching System(Shavlik), updating the Desktop imaging system(MDT), and troubleshooting any physical/virtual/remote Windows/ESX server issue (about 110 servers total). My current projects include: upgrading the AD Environment to Windows 2008 R2, implementing a backup system at a remote site, retiring an old AD Domain, and rolling out the latest version of Symantec EP globally. Sr. Systems Engineer III Siemens - Newark, CA August 2007 to November 2007 My position at Siemens was more focused on overall server projects. I was also a technical escalation point for the level 1 and 2 support teams. My day to day activities were similar to my previous job as LSI, but I was also gaining experience with Exchange 2003, Tape Backups, and Microsoft technologies like WSUS, SBS, SMS, and WDS. Systems Administrator II LSI Corporation - Milpitas, CA February 1998 to August 2007 I was a Systems Administrator in charge of Windows Server Support and Global Thin Client Access. I supported over 150 Windows and Linux servers across the globe on a daily basis and I excelled in troubleshooting any issues that arose within the environment. My first two years with LSI, I was a Desktop Support Technician, and I transitioned to a Windows Server Systems Administrator in my third year. I now encompass more technologies including Linux, server hardware (HP and Dell), as well as SAN storage. One week out of every month, I was on on-call 24/7 for any desktop or server emergencies. I also worked weekends to do system wide changes, when necessary. My hours are flexible.  Daily Activities and Projects:  • Evaluated and tested Thin Client access for a consistent global model.  • Participated in LSI's Active Directory Domain Consolidation and any divestiture/migration activities.  • Consolidated, organized, and upgraded hardware (and applications) in our central California Data Center.  • Remotely supported offices in India, China and Dubai.  • Migrated LSILogic's NT4 Windows domain to native Active Directory (2K3). I was the technical lead for this project and it was completed in late 2005. I successfully oversaw the replacement of over 30 NT4 domain controllers with new Windows 2K3 servers. I also troubleshot any technical issues arising from the AD rollout in our environment. After the migration was complete, I was responsible for LSI's Active Directory Domain.  • Helped implement "Big Fix" globally on all desktop PC's and Servers. (Patching/Compliance System)  • Sarbanes/Oxley Compliance: Responsible for SOX compliance as it relates to the Active Directory domain at LSI.  • Designed and Implemented a Citrix Metaframe farm for 200 UNIX users. (To run MS Office and IE)  • Setup HP Insight Manager and Dell IT Assistant to monitor Critical Windows Servers 24X7, 365 days a year. Desktop Support Infotech - Santa Clara, CA February 1997 to February 1998 I was responsible for PC setup and configuration of all the tech classes and also supported a small office staff. Inventory Analyst Costco WholeSale - Mountain View, CA February 1992 to February 1997 Out of College, I worked for Costco Wholesale as an Inventory Analyst. Education Bachelor's Degree in Mathematics in Mathematics Santa Clara University - Santa Clara, CA June 1991 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware, SCCM, System Admin