IT CONSULTANT IT CONSULTANT Dallas, TX Work Experience IT CONSULTANT October 2017 to Present Application Support \ Sr. Systems Engineer  Clients: Government Defense Contractor  ? Work with development teams to test \ deploy custom .Net and COTS web applications throughout Dev \ QA \ Production environments running IIS 6 thru 10.  ? Monitor \ troubleshoot \ triage web application issues (performance; load balancing - F5 \ TMG; network; security; connectivity) in dedicated and shared IIS server configurations.  ? Resolve issues with SQL Cluster connectivity including, networking, ODBC configuration, connection strings, and service account credentials.  ? Build, install, and administer various Windows Server (2003 \ 2008 R2 \ 2012 R2 \ 2016) Application and Infrastructure Servers. Manage \ support roles and features according to server needs.  ? Administer and manage Azure resources (Resource Groups, Storage Accounts, Virtual Networks, VM's, Deployments via JSON \ ARM Templates)  ? Collaborate with developers and stakeholders to architect solutions to migrate on-premise applications to Azure cloud. SR. SUPPORT ENGINEER Microsoft Corporation October 2016 to February 2017 Provide Tier 3 technical support for SCCM ( System Center Configuration Manager) issues of private and public-sector clients.  ? Analyze customer environment and business needs to make design \ engineering recommendations for best practice implementations of SCCM 2012 and current branch versions.  ? Troubleshoot and resolve critical issues related to all aspects of SCCM such as security patching \ updates, WSUS, application \ package management, reporting, inventory, asset intelligence, asset discovery, content distribution points, and operating system deployment (OSD).  ? Troubleshoot issues related to Windows Server 2008 \ 2012 \ 2016, Active Directory, Azure Implementations, Group Policy, SQL Server, IIS, and networking.  ? Perform in-depth analysis of complex issues related to WMI and SCCM \ WQL query-based functions.  Email: jimmy.sampson@gmail.com Phone: 972.768.2475 IT CONSULTANT Dell \ HP July 2009 to October 2016 Windows Systems Administration & Engineering  Clients: Bank of America, Verizon \ Frontier, EMC, XO Communications, Federal Government  ? Spec out and recommend server configurations that would allow for best performance while meeting required timelines and budgets.  ? Build, install, and administer various Windows Server (2000 \ 2003 \ 2008 R2 \ 2012 R2) Application and Infrastructure Servers. Manage \ support roles and features according to server needs.  ? Provision new physical (Dell \ HP) and virtual servers (VMware \ Hyper-V) via PXE boot, templates, and imaging. Handle other daily routines, leading new deployments from systems perspective by coordinating internal resources, performing system backup and restore procedures.  ? Administer and troubleshoot Active Directory, user \ group permissions, AD One Way Trust relationships, DNS, and group policy (GPO) issues.  ? Manage Active Directory Sites and Services including subnet and replication configuration \ troubleshooting between multi-domain environments.  ? Create, administer, and troubleshoot Active Directory Group Policies along with application to specific user and computer objects within the domain.  ? Conduct proactive health checks with regards to Wintel environment.  ? Provide Level 3 support for Windows Server (2003 \ 2008 R2 \ 2012 R2).  ? Troubleshoot and resolve application and operating system issues on physical and virtual platforms. Perform root cause analysis (RCA) to identify the issue and come up with preventative measures.  ? General SQL server standalone & cluster builds per specs and configuration for application \ security.  ? Collaborate with 3rd party vendors, as well as in-house technology teams to support various systems \ applications, specifically for problem resolution, escalations, incident and change management.  ? Create \ modify \ edit and use various PowerShell scripts to accomplish repetitive server tasks. Troubleshoot issues with scripts and add additional functionality as needed.    IIS Web Server Admin \ Engineering & .NET Application Support  ? Server consolidation and decommissioning projects.  ? Work with development teams to test \ deploy custom .Net web applications throughout Dev \ QA \ Production environments running IIS 6 thru 8.5.  ? Use custom software tools to execute and manage code deployments as part of Waterfall and Agile framework \ workflow.  ? Migrate .Net applications from older versions of IIS to newer.  ? Monitor \ troubleshoot \ triage web application issues (performance; load balancing; network; security; connectivity) in dedicated and shared IIS server configurations.  ? Manage DNS and load balancer changes (NetScaler, NLB, ARR, A10), configure and troubleshoot issues with various load balancing algorithms.  ? Resolve issues with SQL Cluster connectivity including, networking, ODBC configuration, and service account credentials.  ? Utilize Team Foundation Server (TFS) and Release Management for Source \ Version control.  ? Resolve misconfiguration \ anomalies in IIS XML configuration files (web.config, applicationhost.config, etc).  ? Install and configure any middleware components required to support web applications (Oracle drivers), SSO (Single-Sign On \ Siteminder), and Tomcat.  ? Troubleshoot website issues related to SSL renewal and configuration.  ? Configure \ troubleshoot issues with websites running Apache web server on Red Hat (RHEL) 4 \ 5.  Email: jimmy.sampson@gmail.com Phone: 972.768.2475  IT Operations & Support  ? Use custom software tools to execute and manage code deployments as part of Waterfall and Agile framework \ workflow.  ? Troubleshooting various network LAN\WAN connectivity issues between servers, DMZ's, and firewalls using tools such as WireShark & Network Monitor for data captures.  ? Document network diagrams and write various SOP's (Visio, Excel, Word) to distribute amongst support staff for use in troubleshooting systems and applications.  ? Participate in on-call rotation, support after-hours scheduled maintenance and change activity.  ? Manage incidents and change management requests using ServiceNow and Remedy ticketing system to meet contractual SLA commitments.  ? Implement and support VMWare ESXi 4.1 \ 5.5 (vMotion, vCenter \ vSphere, storage, host \ VM builds, clustering, templates, etc.).  ? Install and configure monitoring tools to aid in proactive server \ network \ hardware \ application administration. (Solarwinds; HP SIM; Nagios; SCOM)  ? Configure Microsoft Systems Center Suite 2012 for monitoring and operations. Setup and managed tools such as Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager 2012 (SCCM), System Center Operations Manager 2012 to 2012 SCOM), and MS System Center Endpoint Protection. Administer agent installs, security patch synchronization and installation, collection management, reporting, anti-virus signature updates  ? Use SCOM 2012 R2 for monitoring the performance and availability of servers and applications. Install various Management Packs and modify alerting and thresholds accordingly. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR HP \ Aperia Solutions March 1998 to June 2009 Launched career in managed services as Systems Administrator at HP supporting Windows Server for major enterprise-level clients. Later transitioned to Aperia Solutions as a Systems Engineer managing the entire corporate environment as well as multiple co-located datacenters hosting the company's Microsoft Server infrastructure and web services. Was able to resolve urgent operations issues within SLA targets.  ? Lead security efforts to maintain PCI and SOX compliance. Install and manage Snort and ISS RealSecure IDS systems. Update and tune rules and policies to provide the best security implementation for the environment. Collaborate in-house Security Engineer to review internal \ external scan reports, then remediate vulnerabilities and implement security measures to maintain SOX, PCI, and SAS 70 Compliance (patching, disable services, research port usage, etc.). Education AAS degree in Computer Networking & Systems Administration Texas State Technical College - Waco, TX 1997 Skills Active directory, Clustering, Iis, Scom, Web server, .net, Scripting, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Sql, Vmware, Hyper-v, Red hat, Linux, Systems engineering, Operations Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jimmysampson http://www.jimmysampson.com Additional Information ? 20+ Years of Microsoft Server and Infrastructure Technology  ? Deep Technical Expertise in IT Infrastructure, Integrated Systems & Applications  ? Strategic Planning & Technology Roadmap Design  ? Translate Business Needs into Technology Vision  Primary Microsoft Server Skills:  ? Windows Server Engineering  ? IIS Engineer \ .NET Application Support  ? Windows Server Infrastructure & Operations    Technical Skills Years Technical Skills Years  Win Server 2000 - 2016 13 SQL Server 2000 - 2016 13  IIS Web Server & .NET support 13 VMWare 4.1 - 5.5 7  Active Directory \ Group Policy 9 MS SCCM 2012 \ Current Branch 4  PowerShell Scripting 3 MS Azure Cloud 2  Windows Failover Clustering 10 MS Hyper-V 5  SCOM 2012 4 Red Hat & Centos Linux 4  Daily Operations & Support 13 Systems Engineering \ Design 10