Bloomberg TOMS Administrator Bloomberg TOMS <span class="hl">Administrator</span> South Barrington, IL Highly motivated, with excellent listening and problem solving skills. Over 15 years of experience in technical and business support services. Great written and oral communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Bloomberg TOMS Administrator Bank of America - Chicago, IL February 2008 to September 2012 • Created and maintained firm structure for both the sales and trading Bloomberg TOMS module.  • Assisted users with Bloomberg API and TSAPI functionalities.  • Served as primary liaison to the Bank of America Trading System representative(s)at Bloomberg regarding issue resolution and system enhancement planning and implementation.  • Worked with counterparts for both BAS London and BAS Asia to permission cross-border users and coordinate global issues.  • Responded to user inquiries to resolve issues ranging from password resets to trade ticketing problems.  • Permissioned BAS associates and customers to view BAS research, offering, and trade auto-execution pages.  • Created and maintained users as both sales and trading module users and assign access levels as appropriate.  • Assigned trade flow mapping and ticket printing assignments at the trader inventory level. Market Data Systems Engineer Bank of America - Chicago, IL January 2006 to February 2008 • Provided hands-on support to end-users with professional demeanor and proficient communication.  • Developed relationships with other Technology groups to ensure all issues are addressed up and down the application stack.  • Documented the Market Data application usage, flows, and infrastructure  • Provided off hours support as needed for critical applications Trading Desktop Support Analyst Bank of America - Chicago, IL April 2003 to January 2006 • Troubleshot workstation operating systems, applications, peripherals, network and audio-visual issues.  • Responded to calls, document problems and resolutions.  • Developed and maintained installation and configuration procedures; contributed and maintained system standards; created and maintained documentation.  • Researched and recommended innovative, and automated approaches for system administration tasks. Systems Engineer Reuters America Inc - Chicago, IL September 2000 to April 2003 • Performed user administration related tasks for internal Reuters CRC staff.  • Monitored and proactively addressed potential system issues.  • Provided support for RMDS and Triarch customers and internal Reuter's staff.  • Worked with other team members to provide coverage for core products.  • Trained new-hire staff or other engineers and specialists. Education Bachelor of Science in Mathematics & Computer Science University of Illinois at Chicago - Chicago, IL Skills Excel, PROBLEM SOLVING (Less than 1 year) Additional Information • Ability to work in a dynamic, fast-paced environment A hands-on mentality; self-starter and entrepreneurial  • Strong problem solving qualities and a serviced minded mind-set attitude.