POS Specialist POS Specialist POS Specialist - Comtrex Systems Corporation Stockbridge, GA Seeking a full-time position in the Information Technology field where I can apply my military experience and further develop my IT skill sets Work Experience POS Specialist Comtrex Systems Corporation - Atlanta, GA August 2012 to Present Provide remote or on-site support to customers operating in a demanding environment.  • Analyze POS systems and enhance system and network performance; correct database, driver and OS errors.  • Install and configure software and components to meet customer specifications or needs.  • Monitor and ensure PCI compliance of network and software.  • Troubleshoot issues regarding printers, routers, touchscreens and other hardware. Information Systems Analyst U.S. ARMY RESERVE - Fort Bragg, NC July 2007 to Present Network Administrator/Team Leader U.S. ARMY RESERVE - MacDill AFB, FL July 2012 to June 2013 Configure, deploy and maintain tactical satellite communications systems.  • Oversee operation of computer network and provide hardware/software support and training.  • Ensure information systems availability and accessibility and manage user accounts.    Deployment/Redeployment Operations Kuwait Information Management Officer U.S. ARMY RESERVE July 2011 to March 2012 Involved in the planning, organizing and managing of information assurance policies and procedures.  • Configured and maintained encryption devices on network.  • Monitored information systems and investigated spillage of classified information.  • Implemented software patches. Information Systems Coordinator U.S. ARMY RESERVE January 2009 to September 2009 Planned, directed, and coordinated Standard Army Management Information System services.  • Tear 1 helpdesk support. Troubleshoot hardware and software remotely and on-site  • Implemented various cost saving PC and printer repair procedures, averting approximately $11,000 in parts and outsourcing costs in a 3 month span. Skills Java, Active Directory, Visio, Access, Android, Exchange, SharePoint, VoIP, Network Administration, System Administration, Data Analysis, Excel Military Service Branch: Reserves Rank: E-5