Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - U.S. Cellular Knoxville, TN • Accomplished professional with over twenty years of Information Security, Systems and Network engineering.  • Strong planner, organizer, and problem solver who has developed and maintained high-profile decision support systems and relationships.  • Academically and practically trained to take abstract concepts and develop strategies that contribute to the success of my organization and team.  • Excellent communication & customer service skills and professional standards.    Areas of Expertise:  I have an applied knowledge of SEC Regulations, SOX auditing and experience in successfully obtaining & completing PCI ROC level 1 certification. I possess a unique skillset at adaptive problem solving and deductive reasoning which allows me to solve problems by thinking outside of the box. I am strong at Bash and have intermediate experience in Python scripting. I have worked in both Production and Developer Support. Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer U.S. Cellular - Schaumburg, IL July 2012 to Present Environment: Red Hat/ Centos, Solaris 10, 4G/LTE & VoLTE.  -Manage OSS (Operational Support System) NMS systems, such as: Ericsson OSS-RC & ENM, NSN NetAct, ALU SAM 5620 (NSP), EMC Voyence/Ionix, 1360COM, Netmaster.  -Create custom Puppet manifests to manage configurations of vendor platforms.  -Installed Nagios/NRPE, Cacti & Nimsoft monitoring services and custom shell scripts to increase visibility and prevention of potential outages in production network.  -Designed Openstack cloud to trial its' efficiency and value as an emerging technology in preparation for 5G.  -Devised custom configuration to trap all security events into LogRhythm Syslog server.  -Maintain team competency on OpenStack, & High availability systems and design.  -Perform patching and planning of production and development systems. Infrastructure Engineer & Security Engineer (Consultant) Aurora Financial Systems - Chicago, IL January 2011 to October 2011 Environment: Red Hat/ Centos 5.x, kickstart. 100+ servers.  -Implement Systems and Network policies to achieve PCI DSS ROC level 1 Certification.  -Drafted shell scripts to automate deployments of applications, databases and systems.  -Installed Redhat/CentOS Linux & Windows 2008 for DB, web, and security servers.  -Designed Nagios/ Cacti (SNMP) monitoring platform for systems and applications.  -Designed config management system using Puppet for systems and file integrity.  -Designed VMware ESXi, EMC VNX SAN infrastructure for dev, QA and prod systems.  -Designed and deployed Cisco ASA Firewall infrastructure in support of 2 geographic offices and remote data center via MPLS. UNIX Systems Engineer (Consultant) DeVry, Inc May 2010 to October 2010 Environment: Solaris 8, 10, Red Hat Enterprise, jumpstart/ kickstart. 600+ servers.  -Installed (jumpstart) Solaris 10 & Red Hat servers, configuring NFS, and DNS, Sun Directory Services/LDAP architecture  -Develop shell scripts for auditing, software & patch management, gathering systems and user configuration data.  -Document and automate user migration from local authentication to LDAP infrastructure.  -Manage Remedy queue for team; completing, assigning, and documenting progress.  -Worked closely with DBA's and Developers while installing new systems and applications.  -Assure access requests are completed correctly and define correct privileged user access. Systems Administrator (Consultant) Hospira, Inc - Lake Forest, IL February 2010 to May 2010 -Manage Systems Administration team, assigning tasks and tickets to team members at multiple local sites.  -Document software configuration for FDA regulated processes for correctly.  -Manage hardware inventory and customer support for remote sales force.  -Provide Systems Administration for Windows Server 2003, Exchange Server. Systems & Security Engineer (Consultant) CHS Ltd - Chicago, IL October 2008 to February 2010 -Designed jumpstart infrastructure for Solaris 9 servers providing SMS gateways and cellular video conferencing for Cingular/AT&T pilot project.  -Provide systems access and security auditing to identify exploitable vulnerabilities and assess risk to clients.  -Create reports for management and budgetary approval authorities to implement secure and resilient systems and network architecture.  -Provide onsite and remote on-call support for multiple clients in various environments.  -Installed and designed systems for data migration projects and provide project management and support pilot project through to broad implementation. Solaris/UNIX Administrator (Consultant) United Airlines - Elk Grove Village, IL February 2008 to October 2008 Environment: Solaris 8, 10. 500+ servers.  -Coordinate with Application Developers and Engineering teams to resolve outages and other E-Commerce issues.  -Document action items and assign to appropriate groups for resolution and provide follow up to resolve issues.  -Provide troubleshooting for Weblogic, Oracle & Tuxedo instances on Solaris 8 & 10 servers.  -Troubleshoot and isolate system and application faults to swiftly restore E-Commerce applications to ensure systems availability for itineraries and ticket purchases. Systems Engineer (Consultant) CHS Ltd - Chicago, IL June 2004 to February 2008 -Draft support and training documentation for end user initiated troubleshooting procedures.  -Install and configure IBM and Dell server equipment on Linux and Windows Server 2003.  -Supervise junior technicians to complete tasks within prescribed timelines.  -Install & maintain Solaris 10, Linux & Windows servers for AD, DB, DNS, Web services Information Security Engineer /UNIX Systems Engineer Goldman Sachs - Chicago, IL June 2000 to December 2003 Environment: Solaris 7, 9, Checkpoint FW1/NG, AIX, ISS Intrusion Detection & Systems Scanning, Systems Auditing & reporting, Radius, RSA SecurID. 500+ servers  - Develop & maintain Solaris 2.6 & 8& 9 Jumpstart images for security servers, (Intrusion Detection, Authentication, Monitoring, & Archiving).  - Draft InfoSec policies and procedures for local and global infrastructure.  - Coordinate with internal and external teams to apply Infosec Policies for new systems.  - Apply security methodologies in accordance with SEC regulations for trading applications, systems access and security systems monitoring.  - Coordinate with Development and Production teams to configure and install systems tools and applications for Trading Applications and production testing.  - Perform 24x7 on-call support for trading systems and servers.  -Administer and install local security related services including redundant Checkpoint Firewalls, VPN services, ACE and RADIUS authentication and VPN clients for remote access. Systems & Network Administrator, Team Lead ITworld.com - Southborough, MA August 1999 to June 2000 Environment: Solaris 2.6, 7, 8, Debian & Red Hat (4.x) Linux, Checkpoint 4.1, Cisco IOS. 200+ servers.  -Develop network & systems architecture implementing resilient and highly available web services as well as ensuring optimal network security and countermeasures.  -Manage data centers for 200+ Solaris, Linux and Windows servers.  -Manage & train IT personnel including contractors and support personnel for Boston and San Francisco offices.  -Installed and configured network services and application servers such as Intrusion Detection Systems (Cisco Net Ranger), Vignette, Domino, Apache, MySQL, Informix, Oracle. Senior System Administrator BBN/ GTE Internetworking, Manama - BH February 1999 to August 1999 Contractor)  Environment: Solaris 2.51, 2.6, Debian & Red Hat (4.x) Linux, FreeBSD, BSDi, Cisco IOS, TIS Gauntlet Firewalls, HP-UX. 100+ servers.  -Provide Systems/Network & Firewall support in various global locations.  -Provide network connectivity including e-mail and web for fleet units in the region.  -Develop training for military personnel on troubleshooting, Networking, UNIX and Windows administration principals.  -Administer TIS Gauntlet Firewalls, Cisco routers & switches, DNS, and Apache servers. Draft shell scripts and to create custom reports, and automate system tasks. NOC Systems Supervisor (Radioman 2nd Class Petty Officer) United States Navy - Naples, IT February 1994 to February 1999 Naples, Italy  NOC Systems Supervisor (Radioman 2nd Class Petty Officer)    -Supervised and trained military personnel to provide support services for all fleet units terminated through this Network Operations Center.  -Drafted training documentation and qualifications for NOC supervisors other Support personnel.  -Awarded Navy Achievement Medal for remotely (over satellite data circuit) restoring network services to USS Enterprise while deployed in the Mediterranean Sea.  -Configure and monitor satellite and terrestrial communications circuits providing secure data and voice for fleet command.  -Plan and configure telecommunications equipment in preparation of data circuit cutovers while deploying from one operational region to another.    Functional/Technical Skills  UNIX & Linux Systems/Network Administration, DNS/NIS management, NFS, TCP/IP, Shell scripting/programming, Cisco ASA/ PIX, CheckPoint FW1 NG/NGx, & VPN Clients, Sybase, Postgres, MySQL & Oracle Database Administration support, Nimsoft, Netcool, Nagios, NRPE, Cacti, SNMP, JBoss, Tomcat, Apache, Veritas Netbackup, Veritas Cluster Server, JumpStart/Kickstart, Puppet, PHP, Perl, Python, Ruby, Remedy AR, Symantec EP, Syslog NG, Rsyslog, ESXi VMWare.  Operating Systems:  Solaris 2.5.1 - 11, Linux (RHEL, CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu,) FreeBSD, BSDI, HP-UX 9 &10.x, Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012 Education Bachelors of Science degree in Computer Science Purdue University - Westville, IN December 2018 NIST August 2018 Skills Bsdi, Freebsd, Linux, Solaris, Ux, Hp-ux, Windows server 2003, Linux Administrator, Rhel, Red Hat, Bash, Redhat Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: e-5