PHP Web Developer PHP <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> PHP Web Developer - Umass Memorial Health Care Worcester, MA • Over 6+ years of years of extensive experience in PHP, LAMP, WAMP, Drupal, WordPres  • Symfony, Laravel, CodeIgniter, CakePHP Frameworks. Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and experience in making web pages cross browser compatible.  • Proficient in developing websites and web applications using PHP, MySQL, HTML5, XML, CSS, Java Script, JSON, XHTML, JQuery and AJAX.  • Extensively used JavaScript, JQuery and Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) technologies to build dynamic web contents with high performance.  • Strong knowledge in using Object Oriented Programming concepts as well as full working knowledge of DOM.  • Excellent work done in writing queries, stored procedures, triggers and functions in MySQL, SQLServer, Oracle, DB2 etc.  • Solid experience with UNIX/Linux, MVC, Subversion, CVS, Git, CakePHP, CodeIgniter, Laravel, Symfony Framework, and LAMP toolset.  • Familiarity with large multi-server environments, administration, and integration with various third-party sites with open APIs.  • Experience in content management systems like WordPress to perfectly suit the client's requirements.  • Expertise in Photoshop, and IDEs like Eclipse, Dream Weaver, PHP Storm.  • Extensive Experience in working on Manual Testing Methodologies like Agile-SCRUM, Black Box, White Box, Waterfall Methodology and Spiral Methodology.  • Extensive Experience in command line tools like Composer.  • Strong Analytical, Problem Solving and debugging skills with excellent understanding of system development metrics, techniques and tools.  • Extensively used the backbone.js, AngularJS, ReactJS frameworks, JSON and JavaScript frameworks jQuery.  • Working experience with MySQL, which includes configuration, query optimization, full-text search indexing and de-normalization Expert in handling the administration of MySQL database using PhpMyAdmin.  • Experience programming solutions based on the AngularJs, BootstrapJs, ReactJs, BackboneJs and KnockoutJs.  • Experience in developing projects that involve JBoss, JSON, AJAX, JavaScript, and REST.  • Solid experience with Model View Controller (MVC) architecture-based Web Application Development.  • Solid experience with security aspects of website such as SQL injections etc.  • Solid experience in Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) design, programming, normalization and security administration with MySQL, Oracle11g  • Experience in custom module / plugin development for Drupal and Wordpress.  • Familiar and working experience with NoSQL Database Design, Analysis and Development like MongoDB.  • Worked with Ubuntu server / Linux command line. Experience with integrating APIs - Google Analytics, Google Maps etc.  • Usage of JSON for faster and impulsive responses.  • Using Bower, Grunt and NPM for project maintenance and installing the dependencies on client side.  • Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with strong attention to detail.  • Experience with LARAVEL, MVC, WORDPRESS, Framework and different libraries for developing applications Designed and developed relational database systems and Client/Server applications.  • Experience on developing which also includes web services like REST, RESTFUL API'S etc. with the help of WSDL, SOAP and JAX-WS, MongoDB and AWS to get updates from the third parties. Work Experience PHP Web Developer Umass Memorial Health Care - Worcester, MA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Develops and maintains complex WordPress-based applications  • Implements complex features using modern PHP code and patterns while following standards  • Develops WordPress widgets, Plug-ins, Custom post types, and page templates.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Developing a set of dashboards in Splunk 6 by leveraging Underscore, D3, Jquery/UI, Backbone, and Django.  • Co-developed dynamic Ruby on Rails/HTML5 application highlighting numerous data visualization of web metrics.  • Created file and did Unit testing by creating Test Suites using PHP Unit, Codeception, and Jasmine  • In collaboration with stakeholders worked on a school's website using HTML, CSS, PHP, and JavaScript  • Identify and resolve issues caused by WordPress plugins or feeds under HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, and MySQL  • Used Agile principles such as Scrum, Continuous Integration, Pair Programming and Test-Driven Development (TDD) as development methodology.  • Developing presentation layer with JSP's, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Form tags, Tiles, JSTL tags etc.  • Hands on JavaScript/ES6 development on Node.JS platform  • Experience in Hibernate which includes integrating legacy databases, writing custom CRUD statements, integrating stored procedures and functions and performed polymorphic associations.  • Followed coding guidelines while implementing the application.  • Used GWT to write AJAX implementation of to convert into HTML and Java script automatically and to support JUNIT.  Environment: PHP, WordPress, HTML, CSS, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Mongo DB, Express, D3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQUERY, Eclipse, Oracle, MySQL, PL SQL, MS SQL, SOAP, Restful, SQL, Junit. PHP Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR February 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the maintenance of Website and application developed in Symfony2 Framework.  • Developed form modules using HTML5, Bootstrap3, Validators and input controls.  • Wrote front end HTML and CSS to meet validation requirements.  • Implemented new modules and themes into Drupal core to allow for rapid development.  • Used and Integrated MVC architectural pattern for developing enterprise applications.  • Used Amazon S3, Broken Link Checker, SLT File Select, Multiple content blocks plugins in the site to implement different functionalities.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ruby on client side.  • Worked in Agile based environment with daily scrum calls and coordination with the offshore team.  • Collate functional, non-functional requirements and business requirements of applications and design the AWS cloud architecture that integrates with existing infrastructure without issues.  • Setup testing environment for Unit Test as well as Front end testing using PHPUnit, Selenium test cases.  • Back end development using Laravel, and MySQL, handle front end using HTML, SSL, JQuery and CSS.  • Designed and developed database with normalization techniques using MYSQL.  • Developed JIRA plug-in for custom user management.  • Used frameworks such as Bootstrap using technology like JavaScript, AJAX, JQUERY for front-end.  • Involved in Jenkins java plugins development, IT provisioning recipes, code configurations like GIT.  • Used JQuery for creating different menus and dialog boxes and used different JQuery plugins for calendar, calculator and printing options.  • Converted all user facing applications from Cold Fusion to PHP.  • Normalized database tables and performed extensive query optimization.  • Followed the Agile and Scrum development methodologies.  • Extensively modified REST HTTP service-based client and server web applications  Environment: PHP 7.0, Linux distribution sys Ubuntu LTS, HTML, MySQL, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, Apache Web Server, JavaScript, SVN, Adobe Photoshop CS, Notepad++ PHP Developer Farmers Insurance Group - Woodland Hills, CA April 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Build code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  • Created web services using WTP tool plugin to the eclipse IDE which is deployed as a separate application using Maven scripts.  • Used DOJO for Ajax Support and used JSON for DOM objects  • Report Generation, Unit testing using PHP Unit, System, Integration and Performance testing of the application and its components.  • Excellent procedural skills and improving Object Oriented skills.  • Proficiency in Prototype, Module Design, User Interface Design, and Integration of PHP components.  • Installing and Configuring Eclipse and Web sphere application Server.  • Written JUNIT test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client-side validations  • Developed JSP pages for presentation layer (UI) using Struts with client-side validations using Struts Validator framework/ JavaScript.  • Set up JBoss Server, Configured MySQL Cluster in Linux OS and installed OpenCall XDMS.  • Write PHP Scripts for application logic and access database (MySQL) layer  • Wrote various PHP scripts in the header, footer, multiple contact pages, etc.  • Template Modifications in the twenty eleven themes including setting up MYSQL Database for configuration.  • Designed interfaces in Photoshop, Flash, NotePad++, Corel Paint Shop X2, Image Ready &Word press.  • Maintained and developed e-commerce website using PHP-based framework Magento, jQuery, HTML and CSS.  • Developed complex Web based UI using Struts Ajax and JavaScript.  • Responsible for both back-end programming in PHP and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, Jquery libraries, and other technologies.  • Designed databases and structures for various Web sites.  • Involved with Zend module development and customization.  • Worked on PHP5, HTML/CSS, Ajax/JavaScript, SVN, GIT and MySQL and Apache, demonstrating vast LAMP architecture experience.  Environment: PHP, Linux, Apache, MySQL, LAMP, Word press, Magento, HTML, Ajax, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, and Git PHP Developer State Street Bank - Boston, MA December 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery on client side.  • Back end development and maintenance of websites using PHP and MySQL.  • Efficiently developed code for different modules by using Oracle SQL, PLSQL and Shell scripting.  • Worked on applications and developed them with XML, JSON, XSL.  • Worked on HTML, CSS, and of digital imaging and illustration with Adobe Photoshop, InDesign, and Illustrator.  • Created an internal browser-based text editor using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS.  • Worked with LAMP stack and open source software.  • Experienced in Gathering and defining user requirements, created software architecture and data models, defined criteria for system testing and defined SDLC.  • Used PHP to create and consume web services (SOAP, XML-RPC) and implemented data integrations within the platform.  • Worked with the Foundation framework and with AJAX based sites/ web applications.  • Developed Jquery plugin for accordions and customized them meeting the business requirements.  • Worked in an SVN/GIT managed environment.  • Worked on HTML5/CSS and jQuery in a Drupal based CMS environment  • Worked on analysis, design, development and implementation of web applications using PHP, Oracle and MySQL.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout)  • Involved with front-end integration projects using various frameworks and HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, and Ajax technologies and methodologies.  Environment: PHP, MySQL, LAMP, Javascript, AJAX, Jquery, CSS3, XHTML, HTML5, Html 5, XML, XSD, Photoshop. Education Bachelor's