UI Frontend developer UI Frontend <span class="hl">developer</span> UI Frontend developer - Macy's Systems and technology Edison, NJ ? 5 + years of experience with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX and JSON.  ? Experience on developing single page applications using BackboneJS.  ? Experience in using React.JS, Node.JS, Flux, Common.JS, Babel+ES6, Web-Pack for SPA development.  ? Experience on developing Responsive Web Design using Photoshop and Illustrator and responsive layouts.  ? Good knowledge on UX Design, EXT JS, Require JS and React JS.  ? Extremely skilled and efficient in developing responsive web application using CSS3, Bootstrap, LESS and SASS.  ? Extremely proficient with JavaScript and JavaScript libraries.  ? Developed server side JavaScript using Node JS.  ? Experience on Node environment using Node.js, npm, Grunt, Gulp, Bower.  ? Hands on experience using the version controls like SVN and GIT.  ? Experience with Cross Browser Compatibility issues and Optimization for web, including CSS Sprites and best practices.  ? Extensive experience on MVC frameworks like Angular JS for creating Single-Page Applications(SPA) using concepts like Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scope, Controllers and Directives.  ? Excellent experience in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  ? Good Web Application debugging skills using Chrome Developers Tool  ? Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  ? Possess good experience on IDE tools like IntelliJ, Web Storm, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Brackets and Eclipse.  ? Good knowledge in finding out the bugs in the application and used debug tools for eliminating the frontend code issues.  ? Experience in using the graphical tools with advanced visual design skills to produce pixel perfect mockups and design the most eye-catching web site, mobile application, email template based on the user experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Frontend developer Macy's Systems and technology August 2016 to Present Environment:  Backbone, HTML5, CSS3, Angular, JavaScript, Handlebars, Jquery, Bootstrap, RESTful web services, AJAX, JSON, XML, Node JS, Web Agile, Jasmine.  Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  ? Involved in creating UI for facility users to report facility status using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  ? Frontend development using Angular framework.  ? Developed Angular Modules, Components, Routes etc  ? Written custom Angular Directives.  ? Migration of existing components to Angular.  ? Used Backbone JS to make the HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Created Front-End Templates in Handlebars JS and used all its features.  ? Developed the application for responsiveness to different screen resolutions using Bootstrap and CSS media queries.  ? Worked with GitLab.  ? Responsible in design and development of web applications using the latest technologies like Backbone JS, HTML5 and CSS3 also involved in Unit testing.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with API's, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Used Bootstrap grid system for responsiveness.  ? Installed and Managed Grunt using NPM.  ? Used grunt for managing UI module dependencies.  ? Used date-format and moment packages in Node Js to save the timestamp in database converting into UTC.  ? I used to assist and developing a prototype for a web application using BackboneJS.  ? Involved in creating Unit tested Backbone JS Components.  ? Debugged the website using Chrome Developer's tools and hardcoded the API into script for getting the information about merchants using Node JS.  ? Actively Participated in Team Meetings, frequently communicated with Business Analysts to clarify the business requirements.  ? Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Created design documents, performed coding, debugging and testing. UI developer American Express, Pheonix, AZ September 2015 to May 2016 Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJs, JQuery1.x, Require.JS, AJAX, JSON3, Angular JS, RESTful Web Services.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed UI on mobile web platform using JavaScript, HTML, CSS and JSON.  ? Developing web app which is built around HTML, CSS and jQuery.  ? Participate in project planning and client discussion.  ? Implement CSS3 style sheets for reset, placement of page elements and styling  ? Responsive web design implementation (RWD) of CSS3 media queries.  ? Participated in project planning and client discussion.  ? Search Engine Optimization and website testing for cross platform compatibility.  ? Implemented Angular Routes, Components to maintain each view data. Implemented Rest Service calls.  ? Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data.  ? Worked within AGILE team environment and participated in multiple scrum meetings to discuss planning and development needs for current cycle.  ? Closely interacted with QA and Backend Teams.  ? Used Web based GIT repository Manager. Web/UI Developer Cybage Inc September 2012 to December 2014 Environment:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJs, JSON, AJAX, XML, Apache HTTP Server, MySQL  Responsibilities:  ? Dynamic web site design and programming using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  ? Developed jQuery based calendar to schedule appointments.  ? Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON.  ? Developed interface to display report data using jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript and JSON, XML  ? Used various jQuery plugins like auto complete, date picker, color picker, document slider to enhance the usability, functionality and overall experience for website  ? Implemented pagination and sorting functionalities in different modules using jQuery plugins  ? Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  ? Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  ? Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility, cross-browser / platform testing and compatibility assurance  ? Using SVN for version control.  ? Participated in requirement gathering, coordinated with various development teams in code integration. Education Master's Skills AJAX (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), jQuery (4 years), XML (3 years), MYSQL (2 years), Angular (5 years), Nodejs (5 years), React (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Development: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, SASS, JSON3, AJAX, XML, XHTML, DHTML5, DOM.  JavaScript Libraries: JQuery, React.js, Angular5, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, Handlebars.  Database: MySQL, PLSQL, Oracle 11g.  Operating System: Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac OS X.  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall.  IDEs worked on: Notepad++, Eclipse IDE, Brackets.  Software Tools: Microsoft Visual Studio, Photoshop, MS Office.  Others GitHub, RESTful web services, SOAP.