Sr. Salesforce Developer Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Salesforce Developer - Zurich Insurance Company Ltd VA • Over 7 + Years of IT experience of which, around 3+years experience in Salesforce.com CRM Platform. Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) including analysis, requirement engineering, architecture design, development, enhancements, testing, deployment and maintenance of stand-alone, Multi-tier, web-based and portals based object oriented enterprise applications.  • Salesforce certified developer (DEV 401).  • Experience in administration, configuration, Implementation, and Support of Salesforce CRM and Salesforce SFA applications based on Apex Language and leveraging Force.com Platform -- world's  first commercial Software as a Service (SAAS) application running in Cloud Computing Environment.  • Salesforce point and click tools (creating custom workflows, approvals, email,profiles and role setup, configuring profile permissions and OWD settings, email templates and all these things).  • Effective employment of Apex DataLoader, Import Wizard and Data Manipulation Language for Data Migration and Management in Bulk.  • Good experience in SFDC related technologies such as Apex, Visualforce, Apex triggers.  • Good experience in designing of custom objects, custom fields, role based page layouts, custom Tabs, custom reports, report folders, report extractions to various formats, design of Visual Force Pages, Snapshots, Dashboards, Apex Classes, Controllers & Triggersand various other components as per the client and application requirements.  • Experience in SAP Sales and Distribution in all phases of the systems development life cycle which include system design, analysis, configuration, system testing, data conversions and Production support.  • Experience in writing functional specifications, testing scenarios, creating training material, conducting end user training. Experience in unit testing, integration testing, and regression testing.  • Integration experience with other modules like Finance (FI) and Material Management (MM).  • Extensive experience in migrating Legacy systems into SAP environment using LSMW and BDC.  • Involved in 2 implementations and 1 support projects.  • Experience in buildingSchedule Apex, Batch Apex,SOQL, SOSLand Aggregate functions.  • Proficiency in administrative tasks like Creating Roles, Profiles, Users, Email Services, Page Layouts, Workflow Alerts, Actions, Reports and Approval Processes.  • Experience in building Visualforce Custom Controllers Components, Custom Objects, Reports, Dashboards, Tabs.  • Effective employment of Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard and Data Manipulation Language for Data migration and management in bulk.  • Good Experience with Service Cloud, Sales Cloud, Marketing Cloud and Chatter.  • Extensive experience with different integration tools like Apex Data Loader, Force.com API, SOQL, SOSL Import Wizard and Data Manipulation Language for data migration and management in bulk.  • Experience with Apex Language, Apex Trigger, Apex Scheduler, Batch Apex, Apex Class & Apex Web Service, Partner WSDL & Enterprise WSDL, Visual Force (Page, Component & Controllers).  • Experienced in all stages of SDLC that includes duties like providing documentation on design, testing and migration from development to production.  • Experience in working with Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in environment for writing Business logic in Apex Programming Language andIDE tools: MyEclipse, Eclipse, JBuilder and Force.comEclipse IDE Plug-in.  • Good work experience in Custom Integration of Outbound Messages, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects and Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, AppExchange Package & Custom Application, Sandbox data loading.  • Expertise with Administration and Configuration of Salesforce.com CRM to populate and maintain data.  • Experience in Implementation ofSalesforce.com for the sales and support user groups based on the user requirements.  • Experience inmaintaining, enhance, create workflows and validation rules.  • Experience with tools like Force.com Explorer, Force.com Migration and force.com Excel connector.  • Good exposure to AppExchange applications. Able to find appropriate applications, install and customize. Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer Zurich Insurance Company Ltd - Schaumburg, IL April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Working on Hybrid(Agile and Waterfall) methodology.  • Experienced in Service Console application in Insurance domain.  • Experienced in migrating application from classic to lightning.  • Experienced in developing lightning components from scratch using Aura Framework.  • Experience in using SLDS to migrate visualforce pages to lightning.  • Expertize in developing apex class and triggers.  • Experienced in Developing Batch class and running them.  • Implement Test classess and running them before deployment.  • Efficient in using deployment tools which includes changeset, Force.com IDE, etc.  • Experienced in using Soap And Rest services.  • Firm Understanding of salesforce Communities.  • Experince in customizing standard objects and creating custom objects.  • Creating customizing object page layouts and profile based layouts.  • Experience with interacting with external systems via salesforce callouts.  • Efficient in building Custom Report Types, Reports and Dashboards as per the requirements by complete understanding of business functionality from Business Analyst.  • Created workflow rules and process builder for the calculations to display columns as per the requirements.  • Working with Salesforce architect to implement solutions to satisfy business requirements and are delivered in timely manner. Provide ongoing support for salesforce.com applications  • Experinced in developing standard lightning datatable and also built custom data table where I need to code a lot of to fulfill the requirements.  • Communicated project status and escalate issues to management. Provide feedback for improving Technical Publications procedures, standards, and methodologies.  • Experienced in administration tasks like developed profile and rule hierarchies with object and FLS(Field level security).  • Frim understanding between look up and master-detail relashionship.  • Creating rollup summary as per the requirements.  • Experienced in implementing shield including platform encryption, event monitoring andfield audit trial.  • Encrypting most sensitive data at rest across salesforce apps.  • Event monitoring to access detailed performance, security and usage data.  • Worked on various IDE like Sublime-Mavensmate, Eclipse etc.  • Firm understading of coding standards, design patterns and best practices.  • Responsible for debugging production issues on salesforce CRM.  • Experienced in salesforce query and search language(SOQL) and the limitations.  • Firm understanding of salesforce governor limits.  • Flexible with working hours to meet the deadlines.  • Good verbal and communications skills. Experience in understading the use cases and solving issues efficiently by communicating with the BA and testing team.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Data Loader, Apex Classes, Controllers, Triggers, Visualforce, JavaScript, jQuery, SOQL, SOSL, Workflow & Approvals, Java Ant Approvals, Web Services, Custom Report, Dashboards. Salesforce Developer Universal Service administrative company - Washington, DC September 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Implementing custom Salesforce systems using the both the point-and-click interface and custom Apex and Visual force code.  • Designed, and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Highly involved in customizing the Salesforce functionalities like workflows, approval process, setting up roles, creating profiles, security controls, data management.  • Worked closely with Sales Team business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of SalesForce.com (SFDC).  • Writing Apex triggers, Apex classes, developing Visual force pages, batch classes, scheduled apexand test classes  • Used Data Loaderfor migrating data from external system to Salesforce and worked with ETL team automating migration of data in helping object and field mapping.  • Worked on custom page using Visualforce page, JavaScript,JQuery, CSS to capture users comments which are posted as chatter feed on cases Converted Solutions to Knowledge Articles in multiple Instances.  • Used Force.com ant migration tool for deploying salesforce components from sandbox to other sandbox and Production instances.  • Enhanced SOQL queries and Classes without hitting the governor limits.  • Worked with SOQL&SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Integrated the Web Services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the home-grown applications by using the home grown web services.  • Implemented Salesforce Development Cycle covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call Center, Chatter & App-exchange applications.  • Responsible for creation of users, roles, profiles and defined object and field level security.  • Developed various Custom objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules and Components.  • Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems, and used the Sandbox for testing to ensure minimum code coverage for the application to be migrated to production.  • Integrated Salesforce and other external applications using Force.com SOAP API and developed Salesforce Apex SOAP and REST web service classes.  • Used Data Loader for data management in force.com platform.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com Objects and it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values files.  • Created Visual force pages and Visual Force Custom Controllers on Force.com Eclipse IDE to customize the view and functionality of the page according to the organizational needs.  • Implemented Case Management Automation to track and solve Customer's Issues. Implemented Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case to enter generated cases to Case Object.  • Developed Custom Reports and Dashboards as per given requirements and Created test scenarios on Sandbox environment and migrated code to deployment instance after testing. Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visual force pages to develop custom business logic.  • Developed Unit test class for Apex class and worked for improving code coverage.  • Interface with users, project manager, Architects to ensure that implemented solutions satisfy business requirements and are delivered in a timely manner; Document, test, implement and provide ongoing support for Salesforce.com Applications.  • Solution implementation and post go-live support.  • Created Summary reports, Matrix reports, Charts and Dashboards to assist the business team.  • Worked in implementing the salesforce lightning experience and migrating from Classic to Lightning.  • Experience in implementing the Lightning Experience.  • Proficient in creating Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Components.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Data Loader, Apex Classes, Controllers, Triggers, Visualforce, JavaScript, jQuery, SOQL, SOSL, Workflow & Approvals, Java Ant Approvals, Web Services, Custom Report, Dashboards. Salesforce Deveoper Merieux Nutrisciences - Chicago, IL November 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements.  • Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Custom Controllers and Controller Extensions.  • Created Custom Objects and fields for transactional and contractual information.  • Designed and deployed Workflows, Formulas, Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes andAuto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  • Handled the client side requests with Java script and JQuery without sending the post request to the salesforce server in visual force pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Implementedpick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database  • Integrated the REST web services API for extracting the data from internal applications to retrieve data and display in the UI.  • Designed a Batch Class to handle bulk logic and invoked the batch Class fromTrigger Context  Asynchronously  • Developed various Batch Apex classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable classes on hourly basis.  • Involved in data migration tasks for moving data from different business sources into Salesforce.com.  • Worked on integrating Salesforce with an external Data Warehouse system in order to build incremental data storage in the Data Store every night.  • Developed an Apex Class exposed to web services to receive Account Details from the External System using REST API.  • Integration using Informatica cloud for data migration into the cloud.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pagesto develop custom business logic.  • Created custom Dashboards for manager's home page and gave accessibility to dashboards for authorized people.  • Involved in Unit Testing, for the customizations and developments done during the project.  • Involved in the Data Transformation and Data Cleansing activities while transferring the data to the external system using Informatics on Demand.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help Salesforce.com support.  • Implemented Apttus CPQ for renewal processes and Improved control and revenue.  • Using CPQ accelerated management processess by eliminating repetative tasks.  • Integrated Apttus with the existing salesforce solution.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Data Loader, Apex Classes, Controllers, Triggers, Visualforce, JavaScript, jQuery, SOQL, SOSL, Workflow & Approvals, Java Ant Approvals, Web Services, Custom Report, Dashboards. Web Developer HDFC Bank - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2013 to June 2015 India    Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented Web Forms and User Navigation controls using ASP.NET, VB.NET, HTML and JavaScript.  • HTML tags used for designing Asp.net web forms and JavaScript written for client side validations.  • Extensively used theASP.NET Data List Bound Controls and Template Controls.  • Created Content Query Web part to retrieve various Lists and lists of links across all site collection.  • Involved in developing XML Web Services and invoking them by using XML SOAP and WSDL tool.  • Used ADO.NET to connect to database, also Created Stored Procedures, Views &Triggers to DML & DDL operations.  • Implemented security authentication model, defined user roles and access level and configured Web.config  • Coded JavaScript for User Input Validation and Pop up Screens developed web services to share tracking information.  • Used ADO.NET to connect to SQL Server 2000 and DB2database to store shipping details and other preference information.  • Wrote stored procedures, triggers and packages using T-SQL for these functionalities.  • Configured various services like search, excel and business data catalogs, design and developed custom web parts for site customization and personalization and modification of list view in share point designer.  • Involved in unit testing and integration testing of all the applications.  Environment:ASP.NET, VB. NET, ADO.NET, .NET framework, SOAP, XML Schema, HTML, JavaScript, TSQL, MS SQL Server 2000 , DB2, Visual Source Safe, Web Services, IIS 5.0, Waterfall. Web Developer Credent Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2012 to July 2013 India    Responsibilities:  • Web development experience in healthcare & finance domains.  • Utilized HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, for developing user interface and custom actions.  • Designed and developed webpages, custom navigation, animation buttons and icons with Javascript, jQuery UI.  • Collaborated with the backend software engineers and gathered requirements, designed and developed MySQL database and integrated UI with backend using Ajax  • Wring SQL queries to perform DML Operations.  • Assisted senior programmers in improving/testing/documenting code logic.  • Used object oriented programming to meet the coding requirements.  • Designing solutions with architect to ensure enhancements without big change in the design.  • Understanding requirements and writing code to meet the deadlines.  • Firm verbal and communication skills.    Environment:ASP.NET, VB. NET, ADO.NET, .NET framework, SOAP, XML Schema, HTML, JavaScript, TSQL, MS SQL Server 2000 , DB2, Visual Source Safe, Web Services, IIS 5.0, Waterfall. Junior Web Developer The Blogsmart Technologies Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to July 2012 India    Responsibilities:  • Performed Website Development for Clients in fields such as educational institutions, healthcare and entertainment  • Worked on front end design using HTML, CSS.  • Used programming to create special animations on the website.  • Increased web traffic 125% by improving navigation, creating dynamic media sections, introducing virtual tours and adding social media plugins.  • Led front-end development and assisted with back-end programming for website overhaul. Ensured the technical feasibility and optimum functioning of design features.  • Performed unit testing to ensure optimal browser interpretation and functionality.  • Implemented cross platform browser plugins, improving overall website responsiveness and functionality.  • Worked on CMS systems like wordpress and integrated e-commerce plugins.    Environment:ASP.NET, VB. NET, ADO.NET, .NET framework, SOAP, XML Schema, HTML, JavaScript, TSQL, MS SQL Server 2000 , DB2, Visual Source Safe, Web Services, IIS 5.0, Waterfall. Education Masters in Engineering Management in Engineering Management Arkansas state University - Jonesboro, AR 2016 Skills Ajax, Security, Web services, Database, Ms access, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Eclipse, Java, Force.com, Apex, Crm, Sfa, Workflow, Loader, Integration, Case management Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Salesforce Technologies:  Apex Language, Apex Trigger, Apex Scheduler, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud,Batch Apex, Apex Class & Apex Web Service, Partner WSDL & Enterprise WSDL, Visual Force (Page, Component & Controllers) and S-Control.    Custom Integration:  Outbound Messages, Workflow & Approvals, Field updates, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom settings, Custom labels and Tabs, Email Services, Role Hierarchy, Dashboards, Security Controls, AppExchange Package & Custom Application and Sandbox data loading.    Force.com tools:  Apex Data loader, Force.com Apex Explorer, AJAX tool kit, Force.com Migration Tool, Force.com Excel connector and Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in.    Programming Languages:  JAVA, C, VB, APEX    Platforms:  Windows (NT, 2000, XP,7,8,10).    Database:  SQL Server, PL/SQL, MS Access, Oracle and MySQL.    IDE:  Eclipse, My Eclipse and Force.com Eclipse IDE plug-in.    Tools:  Salesforce CRM, Salesforce SFA, Apex Custom Controllers, Apex triggers, Apex classes, Apex web services, Visual force Pages, Eclipse 3.4, Force.com IDE, Apex Data Loader, SOQL, SOSL, Analytical snapshots, Workflows and Approvals, Case management Automation, Sandbox testing.