Software Engineer/ Web Developer Software Engineer/<span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer/ Developer Sandy, UT Experienced Software Developer having experience in .Net C#, MVC OO programming, SQL, PHP Lamp stack, front end styling and user experience development in CSS, jQuery, JS, responsive styling. Experience in Restful Web services, API integration. Work Experience Software Engineer/ Web Developer Alpha Warranty Services, Inc - Riverton, UT July 2017 to August 2018 • Developed API Integration using C# MVC to integrate into Infusionsoft Rest API for new dealer sales and email campaigns. This enabled the ability to help track warranty products, first sale date, last sale date, and other details for the on-boarding team for their new dealer sign-ups.  • Worked on internal customized reports using Microsoft Reporting Services, including updates to the "Daily Management Report" to display Inactive Dealers and show % for months.  • Created an internal area to view the Carma Gauge of the company to show "company carma" progression, which included UX for managing Cama Keys, totals and future Carma events using C# MVC.  • Enabled Claims to be able to add notes for Sellers and track notes by timestamps and claim-rep name with details to help in the part Ordering process. Software Engineer / Web Developer Listmarketer Software INC - Murray, UT 2016 to 2017 • Renovated client sign up procedures, saving up to 6 hours of manual work for sales.  • Updated and fixed code to allow for automated processing with Yahoo for Email FBL's saving hours of manual processing for Provisioners.  • Organized and updated Code base and repository structures, Moved C# platform from localized servers to online AWS servers allowing for better backup and server security. Technologist/Software Engineer Summit Group - Salt Lake City, UT 2012 to 2016 • Helped build in-house reporting system for weekly Subway Franchise Reporting System, taking data from markets all over the country and created automated weekly reports, saving the company over $40,000 annually to another reporting firm.  • Created new features on large client systems on C# stack platforms.  • Created and updated customized features for clients using custom built CMS system coded on PHP stack.  • Helped build new websites for clients in PHP and C#. PHP Web Developer DZV Distributing - Salt Lake City, UT 2010 to 2012 • Built a shopping cart in Magento for Canadian customer base.  • Built an integrated system between Zen Cart/Magento Online Sales and Warehouse Software system which automatically passed on line sales through to the warehouse software, saving hours of manual processing for warehouse managers.  • Updated the 20+ websites in ZenCart with updated sales and seasonal sales events. Education Fulltime study for 4 years in CS and minor study in finance in Computer Science and Finance Utah State University - Logan, UT 1995 to 1999 Skills API, C#, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, ASP, jQuery, MySQL, CSS, HTML 5, MVC (3 years), SQL (6 years), .Net (5 years), Visual Studio (4 years), Restful Web Services (3 years) Additional Information Skills  LINUX  PHP Windows JavaScript  MySQL IIS Angular.JS  Apache MSSQL jQuery  PostgreSQL C# HTML  GIT AWS CSS  AGILE API AJAX