Support Agent Support Agent Provo, UT Skilled Front-end Web Developer / Support Agent / Digital Specialist seeking employment in the exciting and changing world of Internet Technologies to provide fun, useful, and engaging user experiences and company assets. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Support Agent HelloFresh April 2019 to Present ? Attract potential customers by answering product questions.  ? Ensure customer satisfaction through professional and friendly email, chat, and phone  interactions.  ? Maintain customer records by updating account information.  ? Resolve software, service, and product problems by clarifying the customer's complaint, determining the cause of the problem, selecting and explaining the best solution to solve  the problem and following up to ensure resolution.  ? Record data by operating proprietary software, organizing information, and resolving  problems. Support Agent CleanTelligent March 2018 to April 2019 Attract potential customers by answering software and service questions.  ? Ensure customer satisfaction through outreach processes designed to maintain monthly  contact and gauge customer involvement in the software.  ? Maintain customer records by updating account information.  ? Resolve software and service problems by clarifying the customer's complaint, determining the cause of the problem, selecting and explaining the best solution to solve  the problem and following up to ensure resolution.  ? Prepare data for entry by opening and prioritizing emails, verifying receipt of data, and obtaining missing data.  ? Record data by operating proprietary software, organizing information, and resolving  processing problems. Web Developer Above Training Inc - statefoodsafety.com September 2016 to October 2017 Using designs provided by Above Training Marketing team, maintain, create, and develop abovetraining.com, statefoodsafety.com and affiliate websites through HTML,  CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, PHP and MySQL.  ? Develop and maintain proprietary CMS software, namely AboveCMS.  ? Develop web tools for the creation of e-learning courses and the operations of Above  Training Inc. using Ext JS 6.2.x  ? Participate in SCRUM agile development collaborating with a team of developers to provide weekly deliverables.  ? Maintain multiple projects branching from and merging into our main code source using  GIT versioning control. Web Developer - Web Development Services Utah Valley University June 2012 to September 2016 ? Using designs provided by UVU's Marketing department to maintain, create and develop  all web pages and web systems on uvu.edu as part of the Web Development Services  team through HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Create and maintain web pages for the Office of Information Technologies(OIT) with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Coordinate projects with other departments in OIT to provide SPA for UVU using JSON, AJAX, jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Provide branding templates to other departments in OIT to match UVU's web presence  using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery and JavaScript for JSP, PHP and HTML pages  utilizing includes for each language.  ? Take part in the decision making process for UVU's web presence as a member of UVU's  Strategic Web Action Team.  ? Audit the OIT Web Division annually as that division's web steward to ensure that  information on UVU's web site is accurate, relevant and accessible.  ? Work on a small team to transition UVU's portal through a major update using Apereo's  uPortal system built on Java, XML, HTML, CSS, LESS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX and Require.js. Web Developer Spike Jones Archive Project September 2015 to December 2015 Update the code base for http://spikejones.digitalmediauvu.com with bootstrap 3 and update the JavaScript on the site.    Design and build a simple MEAN stack application using Firebase, Angular 1.x, Express, Node, and the following JavaScript libraries:    ? Angularfire  ? Firebase  ? Angular-route Student Projects JavaScript Framework Introductory Projects - Class September 2015 to December 2015 Work alone to build simple, introductory single page applications using the following JavaScript  frameworks    ? Angular 2.0  ? Meteor  ? Polymer  ? React Web Developer Intermountain Compensation and Benefits Association of Utah February 2015 to April 2015 ? Migrate content from http://icbautah.org/ into a new mcms(Membership and Content  Management System) called Wild Apricot. Style the system using HTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript. Import and establish membership records, account settings, and event  information using csv conversion tool native to Wild Apricot. Student Projects DGM Competency Browser - Class January 2015 to April 2015 Work on a team to design and develop the front end of a MEAN Stack Single Page Application  using Angular 1.x, LESS, HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Student Projects Tree Catalog Web App September 2014 to December 2014 Work alone to design and build an Angular 1.x Single Page Application using a static JSON file for the data. Web Developer Pleasant Grove Beautification and Shade Tree Commission June 2014 to October 2014 ? Rebuild the website at http://beautiful.plgrove.org/ from the ground up in Wordpress  using HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript and PHP.  ? Create a child theme in Wordpress to protect changes to the theme  ? Create image assets using Adobe Photoshop Education BS in Digital Media in Digital Media - Internet Technologies Emphasis Utah Valley University - Orem, UT April 2016 Skills Angular, Wordpress, Javascript, Front End, PHP Links https://www.codeschool.com/users/1266512 https://www.linkedin.com/in/bparmley https://github.com/bparmley