UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Change Healthcare Bethany, OK • Around 6+ years of experience as a Front-End UI Developer with solid understanding of database designing, development and installation of different modules.  • Experience in Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, jQuery, and Ajax that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Experience in Web 2.0 applications like blog maintenance, Library Management, social networking using HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Experienced in developing both front end and back end applications using Java, J2EE, JSTL, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, EXTJS4, Struts, React JS, Redux, Backbone.JS, Tiles, Spring MVC, Adobe Flex4, DHTML, Spring, Hibernate, Cloud Applications, Ext JS, Knockout JS, Polymers, Node JS, SAAS, D3, RWD, DOM, DOJO, Flash, XHTML, jQuery, and Ajax, Java/j2ee.  • Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and Java Script.  • Good knowledge on Backbone.js, Responsive design.  • Extensive work experience with JavaScript, jQuery (various plug-ins), CVS, Unix Shell Script, CSS, XML, IIS and Linux. D3.js, React, dash, or similar data visualization JavaScript libraries.  • Experience in designing UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4, Adobe Fireworks CS3 and Adobe Illustrator CS3.  • Extensive experience as web developer with a strong background working on open source technologies, including JSP, PHP, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Flash, Photo shop.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Proficient with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator & Dream weaver, MS FrontPage, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, Macromedia Home Site.  • Experienced in designing table-less layouts using Web Standards.  • Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  • Sound Knowledge and good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Programming (OOPs) methodologies.  • Conceptualize, design, and produce insightful information graphics and dashboards.  • Experience with tools like Firebug for Mozilla and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar.  • Good Knowledge in creating Page Object Model Framework using Page Factory in selenium WebDriver.  • Pretty good Experience on various JavaScript Frameworks depending on the use case (e.g. jQuery, React JS, Ext JS). Creating interactive graphics in d3.js  • Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC in the browser, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, Angular JS and XML.  • Sound knowledge in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Chrome.  • Experience in documentation using MS tools (Word, Excel, PPT, Project and Access). Work Experience UI Developer Change Healthcare - Oklahoma, OK, US December 2018 to Present Project Description:  Change Healthcare occupies a uniquely interconnected position at the center of healthcare, serving providers, payers, and consumers. As an independent healthcare IT company, it works with multiple platforms to address diverse needs. Providers increase patient access, ensure clinically appropriate care, and manage claims and payments across the revenue cycle. Change Healthcare payer solutions address payment accuracy, consumer and member engagement, network management, and the transition to value-based payment. Its consumer solutions provide digital tools to help patients access their personal information and make choices based on quality, cost, and convenience.  Responsibilities:  • Involved designing in webpages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React JS, Redux, Flex.  • Involved in design and development of single page application for the web pages and mobile application using Angular JS.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by React Js.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using Node.js, AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Experience with Data Visualization - D3.js, R Studio, Google Charts.js, Illustrator.  • Developed custom UI components and complex UI screens using Ext JS framework.  • Worked on Typography, Notifications, Timeout functions, cards, Dialogs, Forms, Tables, Switches, Icons, Dashboards, Widgets, grid system, Charts and buttons for developing Bootstrap 4 using Angular 4.  • Using CSS preprocessor SASS to make CSS more efficient and used Bourbon a lightweight Sass tool set that helps you write more effective stylesheets  • Developed modules like configuration module, create module and developed routing files for routing each page.  • Creating interactive graphics in d3.js.  • Modified Rich user interface using HTML5, Bootstrap 3and CSS3 and configured all necessary jar files in local. Pretty good Experience on various JavaScript Frameworks depending on the use case (e.g. jQuery, React JS, Ext JS).  • Design and build interfaces for internal productivity tools to display and collect data.D3.js, React, dash, or similar data visualization JavaScript libraries.  • Applied the latest development approaches including MVC in the browser, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON and XML.  • Used AngularJS, React JS components like modules, controllers, built-in and synchronizing models with single page Applications (SPA).  • Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  • Experience with configuration management tools such as Chef and Puppet, continuous integration and continuous delivery using Jenkins and Bamboo, ANT andVersion control using GIT and SVN, and extensive programming  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and jQuery  • Involved in web designing using HTML5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, and jQuery.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  • Worked on custom directives and on Angular JS filters for transforming the data.  • Developed end to end application using Spring Boot.  • Maintaining all tiers in all applications, using MVC4 and Web API.  • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the website.  • Sound knowledge in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Chrome.  • Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build MVC Architecture with React Js.  • Experienced in developing Automation Scripts, Execution and Analysis of Test Results using Data Driven, Keyword Driven and Hybrid Frameworks in selenium WebDriver.    Environment: Angular, Angular4, MYSQL5, AJAX, jQuery 1.4.1, Ext JS, Flex, Bootstrap, HTML, JavaScript, Media Queries, jQuery, NPM, Node.JS, Responsive Web Design,Bootstrap, Restful API's, Cloud Applications, React.JS, MS Word, Microsoft Visio, D3.js, R Studio, Google Charts.js, Ext JS, Eclipse IDE 5.5.0. Sr. UI Developer AES Corporation - Peabody, MA August 2017 to December 2018 Project Description: The AES Corporation is a Fortune 500 company that generates and distributes electrical power. AES is headquartered in Arlington, Virginia, and is one of the world's leading power companies, generating and distributing electric power in 15 countries[2] and employing 10,500 people worldwide    Responsibilities:  • Involved designing in webpages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React JS, Redux, Flex, Mongo DB.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4 and Angular 6.  • Created Angular 4 components, implemented Interpolation, input variables, Bootstrapping, Router Outlet, binding the click event, Component decorator, binding to the hidden property.  • Developed restful Web service using Spring Boot and deployed to pivotal web services.  • Developed end to end application using Spring Boot.  • Maintaining all tiers in all applications, using Web API.  • Extensive Experience in Implementing View, Model, Controller and View model by usingMVC 4.0/3.0 Framework to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the model.  • Implemented ECMA Script 6 features, alongside Babel, Webpack with es2015, React JSX presets.  • Developed DL/BL classes using and SQL Server using MVC 4.0.  • Experience working on AEM 6.2, 6.1, 6.0, Adobe Day CQ5 versions 5.6.1, 5.5/5.4, template development, Page editing, defining security access roles, administering users/ groups, Integration of Day CQ5 using the Day CQ5 adapters, customization.  • Created AngularJS 4 applications using NodeJS.  • Developed custom CQ5 components, workflows, templates suiting client requirement.  • Integration between ActionScript (2 and 3) and web services for data ranging from simple high score tables to complete information about logged in users which determines the product (Flash or Flex) is best suited.  • Developed the cash organizer using Flex for the auction's website, which helped users manage their site credits and Improved the company's development environment and QA standards.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Developed custom UI components and complex UI screens using Ext JS framework.  • Used Ext JS UI components to implement various functionalities and used with Web API to retrieve data from database.  • Designed and Implemented the enhanced development platform by doing POC using frameworks like Angular 2, Node JS, Spring MVC REST API. Embedded new NPM build with in maven build to reduce the impact of current build process and help run builds seamlessly on the existing infrastructure.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript with a REST wrapper around the existing backend java services as well as various enterprise web services integration.  • Implemented AJAX calls with Ext JS and handled request and responses for various modules.  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage and added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using react.  • Java  • Conceptualize, design, and produce insightful information graphics and dashboards.  • Using CSS preprocessor SASS to make CSS more efficient and used Bourbon a lightweight Sass tool set that helps you write more effective stylesheets  • Wrote media queries and designed the application using Responsive web design tool Bootstrap.  • Used Node.js to offer an easy and safe way to build high performance and scalable network application.  • Experience with remote data (via REST and JSON) and knowledge of the HTTP protocol.  • Developed modules like configuration module, create module and developed routing files for routing each page.  • Implemented front end user interface and features in the application using AJAX.  • Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Used GitHub as a version control and used JIRA for bug management.  • Utilized Agile Methodologies (Scrum) to manage full life-cycle development of the project.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Typescript, Angular JS 2.0, Jasmine, Spring, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Grunt , NPM and Bower ,Spring, Hibernate, Ember, Cloud Applications, Polymers, jQuery, SASS, RWD, React.JS,Node.JS, D3, Backbone.JS, Responsive Web Design, Restful API'S, REQUIRE JS, XML, Cassandra, Media Queries, Bootstrap, NoSQL, SVN, ESB, Ext JS, SOAP, Jasmine, Junit, Mongo DB. Sr. Web Developer/UI Developer AAA National - Heathrow, FL March 2016 to July 2017 Description:Demonstrated a strong focus on software design, user experience, workflow simplicity and elegance with an emphasis on interactive, real-time experiences with a multi-cloud backend. The role includes high technical front-end engineers who can deal with large projects involving interaction with multiple teams, integration with existing products at the same time imagining novel ways of user interface design. Interacted daily with networking, data scientists and machine learning specialists to develop the next generation web experience.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented a lead discovery web application using TypeScript, React JS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, MVC, and Web API.  • Worked in the development of single page applications using AngularJS.  • Utilized Swagger Module and Node.js for developing RESTful Web services.  • Used Cassandra DB has backend.  • Oversaw the conversion of our analytics framework from MSSQL to PHP/MYSQL/Linux solution adding multi-tier performance and reducing costs with flex.  • Mentored Flash developers in Action Script 2, Web Service Integration, and Best Practices.  • Written Unit tests using the Flex Unit 4 testing framework.  • Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript,jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Designed and implemented different layouts using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Used Dependency Injection (DI) from Angular.JS factories and services.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the website.  • Developed charting components using the Ext JS charting for the data visualization and developed Java, J2EE Web, Business components and wired using Ext JS Ajax calls.  • Scaling Node.js test framework with Chrome browser logging and ECMAScript 6 to leverage new features on Jenkins.  • Involved in Docker build and deployments by pushing images to Docker Hub and advanced Container network management.  • Used JavaScript and D3 to implement interactive visualizations of criminal data sets in JSON and CSV format.  • Developed JSPs, Struts Actions and Action Forms, Tiles layouts and DB2 SQLs and part of DB2 while developing screens for the WCC.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS3 and appropriate HTML5 tags as per W3C standards.  • Designed and developed Single Page Application with Controllers, Model and Views of Angular.js framework.  • Worked with angular project directory structure and yeoman angular project setup.  • Experience with JIRA, SVN and worked on MEAN stack.  • Involved in design and development of single page application for the web pages and mobile application using Angular JS and ionic JS  • Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and jQuery  • Involved in web designing using HTML5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, and jQuery.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.    Environment: MYSQL5, Red Hat Linux 3.2.3, CSS3, d3.JS , Angular JS, AJAX, jQuery 1.4.1, Angular, Ext JS, Apache Flex, Bootstrap, HTML, JavaScript, Selenium, Media Queries, jQuery, Grunt , NPM and Bower, SAAS, RWD, Angular.JS, Node.JS, Responsive Web Design, Spring, Hibernate, Ember, Bootstrap, Karma, Restful API's, Cloud Applications, React.JS, Backbone.JS, MS Word, Grunt, Microsoft Visio, Ext JS, Eclipse IDE 5.5.0, GitHub. UI Developer Source one - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2013 to November 2015 Project Description:Our sales team works with all classes of trade and has an excellent understanding of our vendors and customer's needs. Source One Marketing has the knowledge, experience, personal contacts and most importantly the working rapport with major and independent accounts in the territory. The results impressive sales, market development and vendor penetration that continues to grow year after year. The combination of Source One's sales force and product expertise, along with our vendor's quality products, makes us the most effective and dynamic rep organization in the territory. We strive every day to be recognized in the market place as the best.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in variousphases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering,data modeling, analysis, architecture design& development for the project  • Followed AGILE Methodology and participated in SCRUM Meetings.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, jQuery and AJAX that follows W3C Web standards and are browser compatible.  • Used MVN commands to compile the application, build war, deploy on the server, Start Server.  • Developed database stored procedures, functions, triggers and sequences.  • Developed the server side using java and front end with java scripting, XML, HTML.  • Used HTML and CSS in the development in front end of the application.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, CSS in ongoing projects  • Designed Pdf, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML, CSS3 in jQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developed application pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, RWD, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Took advantage of MVC pattern of Angular JS framework to produce higher maintainability of the code.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework likeNode.js.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side within the forms.  • Responsible for the design and creation of visualizations of new high-impact visual applications to make data actionable.  • Manages a repository of re-usable data visualization templates and views.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer.  • Object Data Access Object, Service Locator and Singleton.  • Used PL/SQL to create, update and manipulate tables    Environment: jQuery, Web application server, Bootstrap, MVC, JavaScript, Design patterns, HTML, CSS, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, Angular JS, Node.JS, Responsive web design, Rest full API'S, Web Services, PL/SQL, UML, JavaBeans, Ajax, JUnit, Maven, ClearQuest. UI Developer Magus IT Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to February 2013 Project Description:  Magus It Solutions, a firm with many facets, with each business division changing the way we live and work through its own unique contributions. But no matter what each Magus business vector does, all are united by a single, driving passion: to continue to deliver the world's most innovative GLOBAL Businesses and IT solutions. Magus led by certified professionals with expertise in Research, Design, Development and Delivery of High-End Technology Solutions. Our core competency, developed through extensive worldwide exposure to a variety of Business Processes, Industries and Technologies lies in providing client focused Business Consulting and Re-Engineering of IT Services.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, design and implementation front-end part of the widget-based application using HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript.  • Developed new features and customized existing modules for the web application product using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Analyzed, Designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of the clients.  • Wrote jQuery function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumers facing as well as internal application).  • Developed new features and customized existing modules for the web application product using CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Participated in Code review and Quality Assurance.  • Used Ajax, JSON with jQuery for request data and response processing  • Wrote cross browser code of CSS and JavaScript for internet Explorer and Fire Fox.  • Written CSS to provide table free layout to user interface screen.  • Wrote Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer and Firefox.  • Used Ajax for implementing part of the functionality for customer registration, view customer information modules.  • Involved in daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress.  • Worked on Onsite - Offshore model.  • Worked on developing a suitable GUI for ATM locator.  • Further tasks include management of all MySQL database and all the required tables to store different survey information related to site.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Closure, Angular.JS, Responsive web design, Rest full API's, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, SOAP Web Service, ADA Compatibility, Panache, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, MySQL, Test, GITHUB. Skills Visual studio, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, D3.js, Redux, Typescript, Json, Xml, Xsl, Xslt, Ajax, Css, Dreamweaver, Saas, Tomcat, Ui web, Web design, Web server, Eclipse Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    UI Web Technologies  HTML, HTML 5, XHTML, XSL, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, CSS, CSS3, React.JS, Redux, Angular JS 2.0/4/6, AngularJS, Backbone.JS, Responsive Web design, Restful API'S, Selenium, UI Concept Modeling/Wire framing, D3,Spring, Grunt , NPM and Bower , Hibernate, Cloud Applications, Polymers, Node JS, SAAS, RWD, Typescript, Knockout.JS, Bootstrap, Ext.JS, D3.js, R Studio, Google Charts.js.    IDE, HTML Editor Notepad++, Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio, Dreamweaver, sublime Text2.  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat 5.0.25, HTTP Web Server.  Database ORACLE, SQL SERVER, MYSQL.  Operating Systems Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP (Prof), Win 7, Win 8.  Methodologies Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML.