LEAD WEB DEVELOPER LEAD <span class="hl">WEB</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> LEAD WEB DEVELOPER - PROGRESS MANUFACTURING Louisville, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience LEAD WEB DEVELOPER PROGRESS MANUFACTURING - Provo, UT 2017 to Present Working to build multiple e-commerce platforms as well as internal applications to streamline business processes.  Building through a headless CMS to allow for a single entry point for product entry, allowing for dissemination throughout web and native applications with API calls.    - Maintain and develop with Digitalocean platform, utilizing load-balancers.  - Developed and maintain e-commerce platforms, utilizing javascript API's and service worker to allow for offline  and low-fi connections.  - Implement BEM naming conventions for standardized CSS development.  - Work closely with IT to choose the proper platforms and technologies to best suit the company and allow for maximum growth and integration.  - Work closely with CMO to develop marketing plans around products and landing pages.  - Develop custom API solutions to connected Sage CRM data for multiple web applications.  - Work with Shopify GraphQL API to allow for cross-platform shopping experience.  - Developed internal applications using MongoDB and React.  - Increased conversion rate by 40%, online revenue by 15% and email sign-ups by 25% through UI/UX redesigns. Lead Developer & Digital Marketing CHELSEA'S BOUTIQUE - Sioux Falls, SD 2015 to 2017 Built websites and point of sale systems. Managed daily operations related to cloud based systems. Created  streamlined business model for shipping orders and syncing point-of-sale with online orders in multiple locations.  Lead marketing team in using beacon technology to capture in-store user experience.    - Maintained and developed with Amazon AWS platform, utilizing EC2 instances and S3 container services.  - Developed e-commerce platform website, utilizing server-side scripting to speed up load times.  - Increased revenue by 300% in 2 year period showing 400% increase in online users with 800% increase in traffic, increasing the average sale price by 20%.  - Created custom point-of-sale system connecting with online platform through API's as well as communicating  with other established platforms such as Mail chimp and Shipstation.  - Developed digital marketing plan that utilized multiple landing pages and mailchimp API's.  - Implemented and maintain communication tools such as slack, utilizing slack webhooks and API's to automate  internal processes. Developer CLICK RAIN - Sioux Falls, SD 2013 to 2015 Perform the full life cycle of custom site development: design, develop, and implement custom business and web  applications. Gather project data, coordinate with sales and internal teams to analyze requirements and create  web strategies. Developed and implemented unit testing initiatives; Collaborate regularly with internal partners as well as client senior leadership and staff.    - Developed inside of Expression Engine using Foundation as our primary frontend framework.  - Worked to move from LESS to SASS.  - Started team in moving from Expression Engine to Craft development with Twig templating.  - Moved team to a standardized CSS naming convention.  - Entrusted as the sole developer to handle search engine optimization (SEO) for new and existing clients. Built a reputation as a trusted resource/point person for advanced SEO and CSS issues.  - Developed pre-processing scripts in Gulp, and helped entire team move from Grunt pre-processing  - Maintained multiple git repositories for internal and external use.  - Oversaw transition from individual social pixels to using Google Tag Manager.  - Increased site ranking from 15 to 3 on Google and boosted web traffic more than 15% as a result of constructing and implementing a SEO and social media strategy for the company.  - Implemented wiki for internal developer documentation.  - Front-end development for NodeJS application which kept track of websites and all necessary information  associated with them.  - Streamlined web development project management by creating an electronic system to track projects from start through completion. Moved team to using centralized bu for web project (Confluence) as well as bug  tracking (JIRA) which improved communication and project accuracy. Eliminated unnecessary paper tracking while improving project documentation Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE degree in Geological Engineering University of Mississippi - Oxford, MS 2010 Skills Adobe Photoshop (Less than 1 year), AWS (2 years), Bootstrap (5 years), javascript (4 years), SASS. (4 years), PHP (3 years), Wordpress (4 years), HTML 5 (4 years), React, Front End, CSS3, Front-End, UI, Node, HTML5, Jquery, Node, Jquery, HTML5, User Interface Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/5d0eo0m3ftbw5g5o Attention to Detail — Familiar August 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bcvhnzwavrfc9zli Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Languages & Web Systems: HTML5 CSS3 PHP Javascript MySQL NoSQL Jquery Twig SASS LESS Gulp Grunt  Webpack NodeJS AWS Google Cloud Platform DigitalOcean  Frameworks: HTML5 Boilerplate Bootstrap Foundation React Vue Angular Gatsby Jekyll  Software: Adobe Photoshop & Illustrator Sketch