UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer Dallas, TX Seeking a full time opportunity as a UI developer, developing interactive websites and web applications in an organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Windstream Communications - Dallas, TX November 2015 to Present Responsibilities  ? Worked as a part of UI Development team responsible for developing Web Applications using HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap and Responsive Web Design  .? Designed and Developed web applications for handheld devices(mobiles, ipad, tablets)  ? Implemented Media Queries to create Responsive web pages.  ? Used various jquery implementations such as Readmore.js, jQuery Mobile, DataTables, Hammer.js.   ? Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding business and functional requirements of each project.  ? Strong knowledge in cross-browser, cross-platform markup, layout and responsive design techniques.  ? Knowledge of .net MVC pattern.  ? Experience and understanding of Software Development Lifecycle and Agile software development methodology..  ? Made the pages responsive using Bootstrap, jQuery, CSS and media queries.  ? Tested the responsiveness on Samsung phones, iPhones, iPad and Tablets.  ? Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying.     Skills Used  HTML5, CSS3, javascript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Responsive Design Techniques,AJAX, .net MVC. Web Developer Arabian Publications Inc - Dubai February 2013 to January 2014 ? Designed and Developed Interactive webpages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Javascript and jQuery.  ? Gathered data from the backend using MySQL and PHP.  ? Designed and Implemented the UI using Javascript, HTML, CSS, MySQL and PHP.  ? Developed customized jQuery & Javascript functionalities for various implementations.  ? Made websites more dynamic and responsive using Javascript and jQuery.  ? Setup the advertisement platform and allow for a variety of different advertisers to serve their ads.  ? Managed and maintained websites of the company.  ? Updated advertisers contact listing from time to time.  ? Designed and developed banners,sliders and web adverts.  ? Created & Managed social media pages for the company.  ? Conducted email marketing and email blasting of newsletters and announcements to all clients’ registered email addresses.     ? Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript, jQuery, MySQL, PHP, Responsive Design Techniques, Dreamweaver, WAMP    Websites worked on:  http://www.gulfoilfielddirectory.com   ? The project invloved design and development of an online directory for the Oil & Gas companies around the world.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript, jQuery, MySQL, PHP, Responsive Design Techniques, Dreamweaver, WAMP.    http://www.oilandgaspages.com  ? The project involved the development of an E-commerce website with all possible business facilities comprised for the Oil & Gas Industry.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, MySQL, PHP, AJAX, Responsive Design Techniques. Media Coordinator Arabian Publications Inc - Dubai May 2009 to January 2013 Identifying new advertising markets.  Coordinating with the clients to design media plans and set budgets.  Selecting media outlets most suitable for clients' products and services.  Preparing and delivering presentations to customers how specific types of advertising will help promote their products in most effective way.  Performed data analysis for generating reports on periodic basis.  Generated and distributed management reports in accurate and timely manner.  Provided strong reporting and analytical information support to management team.  Analyzed business information to identify process improvements for increasing business efficiency and effectiveness.  Assisted in the design of new components of the information system and in revision of current components to meet changing information needs of management and funding sources. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Anna University 2008 Skills Javascript, Front End, UI, C# (3 years), .NET (3 years) Additional Information DOMAIN SKILLS  Over 4+ years of work experience in design and development of interactive web pages.  Proficient in developing webpage using HTML 4/5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript, jQuery and AJAX.  Ability to learn new technologies and concepts quickly in order to accomplish assigned tasks.  Able to handle and sort all technical related queries/issues independently.  Good understanding of object oriented concepts(Java).    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web Technologies: HTML 4/5, CSS3, SASS, Javascript, AJAX, PHP  Javascript Libraries: jQuery  Frameworks: Bootstrap  Database: MySQL  IDE: Dreamweaver, Notepad++  Responsive Web Design  Github  Adobe Photoshop