.Net Developer Web & Windows Development .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> <span class="hl">Web</span> &amp; Windows Development .Net Developer Web & Windows Development - CORTEVA Agri Sciences Indianapolis, IN ? Around 7+ years of programming experience in analyzing, designing and developing Web & Windows (Client/Server) based and N-Tier Applications using C#, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, WCF, AJAX, Web Services, CSS, JavaScript and SQL Server 2016.  ? Proficient in building Web Application using ASP.NET, MVC, Entity Frame work, Razor, HTML5, CSS3, C#, Web Service, Web API, JavaScript, in a Client/ Web server environment and project deployment in IIS.  ? Expertise in SQL Server 2016 stand alone and cluster environments. Databases Analysis and Design, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Transactions, Dynamic Queries, User-defined Functions, Views and SQL Server Reporting services (SSRS).  ? Strong Experience in using MVC and Web API applications to implement applications employing Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) and REST using .NET Technologies, Razor syntax, Layout, Partial View, Data Validation, Data Annotation, Bundling, Initial Testing and Third-party Authentication.  ? Experience in programming the Data Access Layer (DAL), Business Logic layer (BLL) and Presentation Layer (UI) using C#.NET, and HTML.  ? Experience in front end and back end development using.NET Framework4.0/4.5.  ? Experience in working with ASP.NET Web Forms, User Controls, Master Page, various types of Datagrids and HTML features and AJAX Extensions.  ? Created data access layer's repositories using Entity Framework, lambda expression and LINQ.  ? Experience in Exception Handling using Try-Catch-Finally blocks and clean unmanaged objects using Dispose method of I disposable Interface and implementing error handling, tracing and logging features.  ? Experience in manipulating structured data stored in XML & JSON data interchanges formats.  ? Experienced with Object Oriented Programming (OOP) Concepts, Object Oriented Programming Structure (OOPS), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Design (OOD), NHibernate Object Relational Mapping (ORM).  ? Design Patterns such as Singleton, Abstract Factory, Factory Inversion of Control (IOC) and Dependency Injection (DI) containers.  ? Experience in using Source Code Version Control tools like MS Visual Source Safe (VSS) and TFS (Team- Foundation Server), Subversion (SVN), Jira.  ? Good Experience in developing database programs like Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Cursors on SQL Server 2012.  ? Used JQuery and AngularJS 2+ to provide faster and better web applications.  ? Expert application development and implementation through ADO.NET technologies using Data Set and Data reader for data retrieval through Microsoft Enterprise Library and Entity Framework 4.0+ (Database First and Code First approach).  ? Good Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Methodology as AGILE Model (SCRUM, RUP, Iterative etc.), Waterfall Model & SDLC phases as frontend design (Architect Design, Data Modeling), preparing Test-Driven Development (TDD), Unit Testing (N Unit), Integration Testing, Troubleshooting, Enhancement & Maintenance.    SKILLS AND TOOLS    Microsoft Technologies  Microsoft .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0/1.x, ADO.NET,WPF, WCF, Web API, AWS Cloud Platform, COM+/COM, Microsoft Office Suite (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook, Skype), Yammer API, CRM    Programming Languages C#.NET, C, SQL/TSQL/PLSQL, CSS3/CSS, XML,XSLT, HTML5/HTML/XHTML, JSON, SOAP, jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, webforms  Framework & Library ASP.NET MVC 5/4/3, Entity Framework 6/5, UI Kit Framework  Web Development Technologies ASP.NET 4.5/4.0/3.x/2.0/1.x, Web API, Angular 6, Web Services, XML, XSLT.  Database Technologies MS SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2/2008, ADO.NET, LINQ, Entity Framework 5/6. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience .Net Developer Web & Windows Development CORTEVA Agri Sciences - Indianapolis, IN November 2018 to Present • Utilized C# and applied Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts to design the application using  • ASP.NET Web Form, JavaScript, MVC, Web API etc.  • Involved in Deployment, configuring, maintaining compute on Azure cloud and troubleshooting Azure related issues.  • Optimized in-application SQL statements and utilized SQL Profiler to profile server resource usage and  • optimize it. Work closely with the DBA to deploy SSIS and SSRS packages.  • Involved in front end Application development using in ASP.NET, AJAX using C#, and back end in SQL Server 2016.  • Used ASP.NET web server controls like Grid View, List View and Repeater for displaying the required information.  • Used Team Foundation Server, JIRA for source control and project management.  • Involved in developing and maintaining web forms, user control, controller, views, client side scripting, Web API using VB.Net 4.0, C#, Jquery, Ajax, Json and SQL Server 2012.  • Utilized Azure SQL Database and involved in maintaining them.  • Extensive development using ASP.NET, Master Pages, Themes, Web Parts, Provider Model, JavaScript. Also involved in proof-of-concept using ASP.NET Model-View-Controller, MVC pattern.  • Designed and developed static and dynamic pages validating client side and Server side scripts.  • Created custom angular directives and filters for filtering the data that we display on the web page.  • Used Jquery, ASP.NET, AJAX toolkit controls and CSS to enhance the performance and richness to the user interface.  • Planning to rewrite windows application into web application wherein involved in creating POC in technologies like HTML5 or ASP.net 4.0 with MVC.  • Designed and developed WCF Web Services and configured our WCF Services with appropriate endpoints for consuming them in the web application.  • Created various Modules, Components for the entire application using Angular 6.  • Developed User controls using ASP.NET, VB.NET and C# and used them dynamically in the web pages using Master pages and CSS, Bootstrap.  • Developed the user interface for back office support and worked collaboratively in Agile scrum team on the design and development of application based MVC framework using AngularJS 6, HTML 5.0, Knockout.js, and CSS3  • Designed MVC design pattern for ASP.NET application development using the ASP.NET, MVC framework.  • Used Team Foundation Server, JIRA for source control and project management.  • Involved in developing and maintaining web forms, user control, controller, views, client side scripting, Web API using VB.Net 4.0, C#, Jquery, Ajax, Json and SQL Server 2012.  • Utilized Azure SQL Database and involved in maintaining them.  • Extensive development using ASP.NET, Master Pages, Themes, Web Parts, Provider Model, JavaScript. Also involved in proof-of-concept using ASP.NET Model-View-Controller, MVC pattern.  • Designed and developed static and dynamic pages validating client side and Server side scripts.  • Created custom angular directives and filters for filtering the data that we display on the web page. .Net Developer Web & Windows Development Anthem - Virginia Beach, VA December 2016 to October 2018 Engaged with Business Analyst/ Manager to gather the business requirements and utilized the AGILE (SCRUM) Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Methodology in planning, requirements analysis, design, coding, and maintenance and did Testing, Debugging and User Acceptance Testing (UAT) on various phases to develop the defect free software.  ? Utilized C# and applied Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts to design the application using ASP.NET Web Form, JavaScript, MVC, Web API etc.  ? Resolved Database related trouble tickets assigned to the DBA group.  ? Involved in Deployment, configuring, maintaining compute on Azure cloud and troubleshooting Azure related issues.  ? Optimized in-application SQL statements and utilized SQL Profiler to profile server resource usage and optimize it. Work closely with the DBA to deploy SSIS and SSRS packages.  ? Worked on JIRA for Issue tracking.  ? Designed and implemented application using C#, ASP.NET MVC 3.0 with Razor View Engine, jQuery, AJAX, HTML, JavaScript.  ? Asynchronus data set carefully, and note down any particular characteristics, especially appearance of NULL values, use of dates, and make sure the expected results and validate them, manually.  ? Break the problem down into a series of simple steps, write the T-SQL, view the results, adjust if necessary, and move on to the next step.  ? Involved in developing applications in WPF using MVVM visual studio 2012.  ? Utilized .Net MVC 3.0 (Razor), Entity Framework, Code-First Approach, Partial View and SQL Server 2008 R2.  ? Designed a reasonably future proof service contact with REST endpoints accepting HTML parameters and returning JSON data and utilized MVC5/NPOCO based service to implement the contract.  ? Designed User Interface with Razor Views, Partial Views and CSS 3 for Layout View.  ? Used Angular 2 HTTP Request to get data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.  ? Implemented the NuGet Package Gallery for installing related modules as AngularJS Core, AngularJS Route and updating the project by adding references, changing configuration files.  ? Developed a rich and lightweight user interaction using jQuery, JavaScript and AJAX.  ? Used Grid MVC to provide more flexible, editable and sortable grid view to increase user interaction.  ? Developed the N-tier architecture, e.g. Presentation Interface (UI), Business Logic Layer (BLL), and Data Access Layer (DAL) for more clear, maintainable and efficient architecture.  ? Used JIRA for incident tracking and resolution tracker.  ? Used Entity Framework to create Models. Use code-first approach.  ? Created models with using LINQ and Lambda Expression.  ? Used Action Filters for user authentications and authorizations and for caching pages to improve performance.    Environment: MVC 3.0 (RAZOR engine), Entity Framework, View, Partial View, SQL Server 2008 R2, CSS3, SSRS, LINQ, Lambda Expression, Visual Studio 2010, C#.NET, AJAX, JSON, Angular6, Web API, AngularJS 2+, HTML, Jquery, Partial View, View Model, Agile Team Foundation Server (TFS). .Net Developer Web Development ITDEA Technologies - Tampa, FL December 2015 to November 2016 Description: Order Management application is part of the web application suite which is utilized for reviewing, reporting, and maintenance and data correction. This application gives the ability to review the audit for a particular order, delete the order, and manipulate the order route. ISP/OSP Order management team uses this application to report any problems for a given order to the support team for further review and execution of the order. Application can be accessed using two different roles "admin" and "user".    ? Involved with the client team to design and implement the advanced technologies WCF, ASP.NET with the application logic in C# according to the user requirements  ? Involved in front end Application development using in ASP.NET, AJAX using C#, and back end in SQL Server 2012.  ? Used ASP.NET web server controls like Grid View, List View and Repeater for displaying the required information.  ? Used Team Foundation Server, JIRA for source control and project management.  ? Involved in developing and maintaining web forms, user control, controller, views, client side scripting, Web API using VB.Net 4.0, C#, Jquery, Ajax, Json and SQL Server 2012.  ? Utilized Azure SQL Database and involved in maintaining them.  ? Extensive development using ASP.NET, Master Pages, Themes, Web Parts, Provider Model, JavaScript. Also involved in proof-of-concept using ASP.NET Model-View-Controller, MVC pattern.  ? Designed and developed static and dynamic pages validating client side and Server side scripts.  ? Created custom angular directives and filters for filtering the data that we display on the web page.  ? Used Jquery, ASP.NET, AJAX toolkit controls and CSS to enhance the performance and richness to the user interface.  ? Planning to rewrite windows application into web application wherein involved in creating POC in technologies like HTML5 or ASP.net 4.0 with MVC.  ? Designed and developed WCF Web Services and configured our WCF Services with appropriate endpoints for consuming them in the web application.  ? Created various Modules, Components for the entire application using Angular 2.  ? Developed User controls using ASP.NET, VB.NET and C# and used them dynamically in the web pages using Master pages and CSS, Bootstrap.  ? Developed the user interface for back office support and worked collaboratively in Agile scrum team on the design and development of application based MVC framework using AngularJS 2+, HTML 5.0, Knockout.js, and CSS3  ? Designed MVC design pattern for ASP.NET application development using the ASP.NET, MVC framework.  ? Imported data from flat files to SQL Server database using SSIS.    Environment: Visual studio 2013, C#, ASP.NET 4.0, AngularJS 2+, Knockout JS, Web API, GUI, VB.NET, MVC, LINQ, WCF, MS SQL 2012, JQuery, IIS 7.0, CSS, XML, HTML, SSIS, SSRS, Team Foundation Server(TFS). .Net Developer TEkNAUX - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to July 2015 Description: The Investment Banking is publicly held personal lines insurer. It sells 13 major lines of insurance, including auto, property, life and commercial. Allstate also offers retirement and investment products and banking services. The scope of the project was to obtain data from different sources, consolidate and cleanse the data and merge it into one single source. The new application development was accomplished in ASP.NET; the project also involved the migration of existing product inventory to ASP.NET with backend SQL 2005/2008 as the database.    ? Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and identifying the requirements and defining the business rules to user requirements.  ? Developed web based User Interface using ASP.Net, HTML, C#.  ? Involved in logical and physical database implementation, creating tables, stored procedures using SQL.  ? Written code for Database Connectivity and interaction using ADO in VB.Net.  ? Extensively used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) classes to maintain the uniformity throughout the application.  ? Used HTML, CSS for styling the Web pages.  ? Developed test plan, Test cases, and Test scripts based on high-level and detailed designs.  ? Created and executed Test Cases for some of the modules of the application under test (AUT) using Quality Center.  ? Visual Source Safe was used as the version controlling system    Environment: C#, ASP.Net2.0, CSS, HTML, ADO. Net, WSDL, IIS, Entity Framework, Web API, SQL, VSS, Quality Center, Visual Studio.Net 2003/2005. Education Associate Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Git, Ms team foundation server, Team foundation server Links http://using.NET Additional Information Methodologies AGILE  Code & Version Controls Tools MS Team Foundation Server (TFS), GIT Hub  Development Environment Microsoft Visual Studio 2015/2013/2010/2008, Mssql2016  Operating System Windows7/8/10