Consultant, Owner Consultant, Owner Killeen, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant, Owner LVV Consulting, LLC - Killeen, TX January 2019 to Present Human-centered communication consulting for teams and organizations. Web Developer Texas A&M Central Texas - Killeen, TX July 2015 to July 2017 Full-stack web developer for the university. Responsible for maintaining the current website frontend and backend, solving business problems by creating applications (Node.js, PHP). Implemented Git for version control, migrated web servers to Nginx and optimized web server performance and security. Web Developer University of Houston - Houston, TX March 2014 to July 2015 Frontend developer and backend web developer for the department of Education Technology and University Outreach (ETUO). Co-developed ClassBrowser search tool (PHP/Laravel). Implemented version-control system (Git) for department web projects. Utilized JS and JS libraries (jQuery, lodash) to improve user experience on new and existing web pages. Web Consultant Baylor University - Waco, TX August 2011 to March 2014 • Web consulting, design, and front-end development.  • Consulted with departments determining their needs and providing sustainable front-end solutions.  • Built and maintained web forms in the CMS using PHP and a variety of CSS/JavaScript libraries.  • Provided training for faculty, staff, and students in the CMS and basic HTML/CSS. Test Examiner Central Texas College - Bagram Army Air Field February 2011 to August 2011 • Provided educational support services to U.S. Service members, and government civilians while deployed to Afghanistan.   • Served as test administrator for standardized college and military examinations.   • Maintained physical security and accountability for exams and intellectual property. Academic Advisor University of North Texas - Denton, TX December 2006 to September 2008 • Served as advisor for over 1000 students majoring in Radio, Television, and Film.  • Advised students on core requirements, transfer articulation, graduation requirements, and pre-major and major requirements.  • Worked closely with faculty advisor to ensure students met all requirements for a timely graduation.  • Facilitated summer academic workshops for incoming freshmen. Admissions Counselor/Recruiter Stephen F. Austin State University - Nacogdoches, TX February 2006 to December 2006 • Managed a regional recruiting area scheduling and conducting visits to area high schools.  • Met with counselors within the region to build rapport and provide the latest information about the University and the admissions process for their students.  • Served as the lead counselor for the “Return to Learn” program, a recruitment effort to reach nontraditional students. Education Bachelor's in Interpersonal Communication Stephen F. Austin State University - Nacogdoches, TX August 2000 to May 2005 Skills Javascript, PHP, Wordpress, VueJs (2 years), NodeJs (3 years), Public Speaking (10+ years) Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qnl7veuujumzjbt Problem Solving — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/b72joivsnklci1n Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.