Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Developer - WellsFargo, North Charlotte, NC Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Web Developer WellsFargo - Charlotte, NC June 2018 to Present Project Details: FXDESKTOP  Responsibilities:  ? Design, develop and test SlickGrid, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery and React.JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website. Developed Web Service for get request and pass details through response.  ? Worked on various enhancements and bug fixes simultaneously.  ? Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  ? In Phase Two, worked closely with the Back-End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  ? Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  ? Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiency by deprecating unneeded API calls.  ? Added Dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  ? Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  ? Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to Git Hub.  ? Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  Environment: ReactJS, Redux, Nodejs, Ace Editor, DragandDrop,JQuery, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, MongoDB, JSON, Restful and SOAP web Services, GIT Senior Web Developer Comcast, Philadelpia ,PA May 2017 to May 2018 Project Details:    ? RESI Migration: May 2017 - Present  Resi2.0 PNP workflow is service that automates process of  ? Creating Planned device in CNM API (Port Allocation)  ? IP reservation in IP Control  ? Requesting DNS, CLLI code & MVT  ? Pushing the base configuration on to the newly launched routers,  ? Configuring core and edge services and  ? Migrating residential edge services.    Responsibilities:  ? Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery and React.JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website. Developed Web Service for get request and pass details through response.  ? Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable  ? Implemented the Editor and auto suggestion using React-Ace-Editor  ? Worked on various enhancements and bug fixes simultaneously.  ? Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  ? In Phase Two, worked closely with the Back-End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  ? Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  ? Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiency by deprecating unneeded API calls.  ? Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  ? Added Dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  ? Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  ? Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  ? Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to Git Hub.  ? Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  Environment: ReactJS, Redux, Nodejs, Ace Editor, DragandDrop,JQuery, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, MongoDB, JSON, Restful and SOAP web Services, GIT Comcast, Philadelpia ,PA January 2016 to May 2017 The PNP discovery collection process allows network engineers to discover the real time details of device and gradually enhanced to allow network configuration changes through web service requests. It also persists the real time details of Comcast network devices in data store and it is updated through scheduled process and real time requests. This is intranet software, which would be access only through Comcast private network. This solution involves custom built user interface and middle tier workflow service that interacts with supporting services including CNM API, IP Control, CM,TAIL-F, CADA, DNS, MVT, JIRA. Provide configuration parameter to Cisco NSO for generating configuration and pushing it on to devices.    Responsibilities:  ? Played key role in developing application which provide PNP discovery collection through web service, API requests.  ? Developed Web Service for get request and pass details through response.  ? Used MongoDB for supports a complete backup solution and full deployment monitoring.  ? Implemented AngularJs2, Ajax and JQUERY on front-end to make the web page more dynamic.  ? Implemented PHP 5.6, Phalcon, Zend as a Back-end technology.  ? Worked on various enhancements and bug fixes simultaneously.  ? Implemented Phalcon full stack framework or high performance.  ? Experienced to develop Unit Testing by using PHPUnit.  ? Implemented Unit testing of AngualrJS using Jasmine.  ? Used the SOAPUI and Advanced Rest Client for testing the Restful web Services.  ? Ensured timely deliveries of work requests.    Environment: PHP 5.6, Phalcon, Zend, Rabbit Mq, Elastic Search, Angular JS 1,AngularJs 2, JQuery, NodeJS, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, MongoDB, JSON, Restful and SOAP web Services, GIT, phpUnit. Senior Web Developer Market Track October 2013 to September 2015 Project Details:  Working Cloud application will address Business Process Management (BPM) needs of small to medium organizations across various industries. It will deliver BPM services to organizations by providing this Software as a service (SaaS). The Organizations subscribe to this system to utilize the application. The application allows the organizations to maintain their Business Plans as well as their Products and Services. The application also allows the user to manage Quotes, Orders, Invoices, and Contract etc. Apart from the Business Process, the application allows users to manage the Organization Staff and their performance. The application also provides the social networking facility like Activity Wall and Chat. The application also facilitates the organization to seek assistance of Advisors. It also offers seamless integration with Xero Accounting Software. We have used Xero APIs to allow an organization using Xero accounting software to merge their existing Xero data with this application. The application is to be integrated with the following third party tools/applications.  ? Authorize.net Payment Gateway  ? Xero Accounting Software  ? MailChimp for Newsletter  ? Kendu UI Graph  ? Crystall Ball  ? Order and Invoice management  Responsibilities:    ? Experienced to developed application which provides social networking facility like Activity Wall and Chat.  ? Developed XERO Accounting Software , MailChimp for Newsletter, Kendu UI Graph, Crystall Ball  ? Implemented Node.Js for Notification, Chat and Broadcast internal message in application.  ? Used MongoDB for supports a complete backup solution and full deployment monitoring.  ? Implemented AJAX and JQUERY on front-end to make the web page more dynamic.  ? Implemented SAAS based application using Zend Framework  ? Designed and created website in Wordpress from Scratch  ? Improved and developed new features and site enhancements as requested from clients (install & configure contribute modules, create custom views, create custom templates, write custom CSS for theming, etc.)  ? Developed mobile and responsive sites using a blend of existing frameworks and custom code  ? Designed theme using HTML/XHTML, CSS.  ? Created XML scheme to be used with charts using JavaScript. In trend reports subscribers are able to generate charts from Any chart like Pie chart, Bar chart and other chart types using data collected from the MYSQL database  ? Implement pixel-perfect websites from wireframes  ? Worked with cross browser compatibility issues, knowledge of 508 compliance.    Environment: Node.js, MongoDB,PHP5, MYSQL, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Linux, MS Word, SOAP, XML,WordPress,Joomla, Zend Framework, Adobe Photoshop, LAMP, Drupal. Senior Web Developer Market Track, India / One way booking, UK (Offshore) May 2011 to August 2013 Project Details:  OneWay booking is the online application for search for the Available Hotels,Car and Flight.In this web based application used API for fetching data of hotels by searching criteria. Object of this site is to get data without store in our data base. All Data is fetching from API in WSDL and XML form.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Web Form security for Forms authentication of user's registration.  ? Designed forms and user interfaces for administrator, supervisor and employee using Wordpress and CSS.  ? Involved in implementing MVC architecture to separate business logic from the view using OOP in PHP 5.  ? Worked with the Zend framework's filtering, decoding, encoding security features in developing secure banking modules.  ? Modified the search engine so that the user can find the relevant data as per the requirement.  ? Designed Database Schema, Database creation using RDBMS in MYSQL.  ? Implemented AJAX to enhance the capability of the website.  ? Designed database tables like administrator, supervisor and employee in MYSQL.  ? Used PHPMYADMIN for MySQL connectivity and management.  ? Created Report Generator that queried the MYSQL database for user-specified information.  ? Normalized database tables and performed extensive query optimization.  ? Worked on an open-source CMS Wordpress to build website  ? Worked in CMS tool such as WordPress, Joomla.  ? Used JQuery to make the HTML5, DHTML and CSS3 to interact with the JavaScript functions.    Environment:PHP5, MYSQL, JavaScript, AJAX, PHPMYADMIN, Zend Framework, Joomla, Wordpress, Drupal, HTML, CSS, LAMP. Web Developer Elcom Security Service - IN July 2009 to March 2011 Project Details:  Elcom is security firm which provide security camera, street camera.This is e-commerce site.We have develop Wordpress site for the same client.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in implementing MVC architecture to separate business logic from the view using OOP in PHP5.  ? Setup of WordPress options, plugin installation and configuration  ? Modified the search engine so that the user can find the relevant data as per the requirement.  ? Developed PHP code and static HTML pages using the ZEND STUDIO and Adobe Dreamweaver.  ? Modified the source code according to the requirement using Joomla.  ? Worked with LAMP stack, NOC.  ? Worked on WSDL for building some specific web pages for database information.  ? Prepared a Test plan which specified the testing approach and strategy and the scope of testing.    Environment: PHP5, MYSQL, Oracle, JavaScript, AJAX, PHPMYADMIN, Zend Studio, Joomla, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Linux, Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Visio, WSDL, XML, Markdown, MooTools, Agile, LAMP Education Masters in Computer Applications in Computer Applications Sardar Patel University 2006 to 2009 Skills Ajax, Css, Reactjs/Redux (1 year), Php (7 years), Jquery (9 years), Javascript (9 years)