Sr. ServiceNow Developer Sr. ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. ServiceNow Developer - Intuit Mountain View, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. ServiceNow Developer Intuit - Mountain View, CA August 2017 to Present • Experience Working on various modules of ServiceNow like Incident management, Change management, Problem management, Service Catalog, Service Portal, User Administration.  • Responsible for the Service Now tool administration module and creation of new Users, Groups, Roles, IT Services, Application, Business Services, Routing rules and Blackout Freeze rules.  • Experience writing Business Rules, Client scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions to customize the instance as per Business needs.  • Created complex workflows and modified the existing workflows with no impact on the current structure.  • Worked on Integrations with third party applications and data sources.  • Experienced in creating various custom application in compliance with the service catalog.  • Managed User Administration in ServiceNow providing the required levels of Access for the customized solutions.  • Writing Catalog client scripts and UI policies to make client-side changes.  • Experience Creating the Data sources and developing import sets and Transform maps.  • Experience Writing Scheduled jobs and Schedule Imports depends on the requirements in ServiceNow.  • Experience writing scheduled jobs that call script includes and worked on REST API's.  • Giving timely support to resolve any implementation and performance issues reported on tool.  • Created data sources from various external applications, scripts to parse incoming data and transform into ServiceNow.  • Involved in maintaining the CMDB Health dashboard with Completeness, Compliance and Correctness. Sr. ServiceNow Developer Stanford HealthCare - Palo Alto, CA August 2016 to July 2017 • Experience in development of service catalog, which includes creating new catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Implementation, customization and maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident, Change, Problem, Service Catalog in ServiceNow.  • Worked on developing necessary documentations as needed and to gather requirements from stakeholders for attributes needed to develop service catalog items.  • Created multiple custom applications to help with health tabs.  • Experience in writing catalog client scripts, creating Inbound Email actions and UI policies and business rules.  • Creating Inbound SOAP API calls to make the newly captured data available for legacy applications.  • Involved in writing detail system use cases, developing business test cases, and working with QA teams during testing phase thereby facilitating acceptance testing with stakeholders and business users.  • Created notifications based on user requirements and also configured inbound email actions to create incidents or requests.  • Working experience in building custom reports and gauges, web service integration with LDAP.  • Created various Business rules, Script includes, Client Scripts, UI Policies, UI Actions and Data Policies.  • Experience in creating the homepages, widgets in help with the administrator using ServiceNow performance Analytics tool.  • Worked on web services integration with Maximo using SOAP direct method and Integrations with third party tool like SOAP and REST.  • Worked on ACL's, SLA's and performed Admin responsibilities.  • Good experience in performing migration activities (Dev to QA and QA to Prod)  • Experience in creating record producers for HR department and worked on HR Case Management, HR Tasks and precise knowledge on HR articles.  • Actively involved in daily scrum meetings and recording the procedures.  • Took part in migration of our version from Geneva to Helsinki. Web Developer Fairchild Semiconductor - South Portland, ME January 2016 to May 2016 • Designed and maintained front-end pages using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3.  • Participated in a small team with agile software development, coordinated with development team manager and AD, designed and build components.  • Involved in various testing methods such as Unit testing, Integration testing and used JavaScript to handle basic logics.  • Experience in using SVN to fulfill the version control and used JIRA for tracking project.  • Worked on crating or updating of websites on Word Press, HTML, and specialized platforms according to client specifications. ServiceNow Developer LogicMind Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2011 to June 2013 • Involved in day to day responsibilities of system administration and given the production support as needed.  • Responsible for implementing and maintaining the ServiceNow platform to meet specific requirements to support ITIL and business process.  • Experience working on Incident and Change Management and Service Catalog.  • Created various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management, and Service Requests and worked efficiently on change management process.  • Responsible to upload of foundation data using Import sets and transforms maps and experience in SLA configurations.  • Experience working on Integrations with third party tools like SOAP & REST.  • Created multiple custom applications with reference to development.  • Created service catalogs and requests with simple workflow design and configurations along with record producers.  • Experience in publishing dashboards, homepages, widgets and utilized java scripting client scripts, UI policies and UI actions to deliver solutions.  • Created reports for Incident, Problem, Service Request, and Change ServiceNow modules and working on user administration tasks.  • Good understanding of roles, ACL's and CMDB classes. Education Bachelors in Technology in Technology in Technology JNT University Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills HTML (Less than 1 year), JAVASCRIPT (Less than 1 year), SCRIPTING (1 year), WEB SERVICES (1 year), JAVA (1 year) Additional Information Skills    Programming Skills: C, C++, Java  Web Technologies: XML, HTML, CSS, HTML5, Web Services  Scripting Skills: JavaScript, Glide Script, Jelly Script  Application Servers: Apache, Tomcat, Web Logic  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, DB2  Version Control Tools: CVS, SVN