Web Developer/Designer/Graphic Design <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer/Graphic Design Web Developer/Designer/Graphic Design - Clique API Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Web Developer/Designer/Graphic Design Clique API - Los Angeles, CA February 2019 to Present In this role I perform a range of functions. I am the go-to person for the design and rebranding of several  Apps we are developing. This ranges from logos to themes to prototypes to marketing materials. I'm also responsible for developing any web sites that have been related to these applications and updates to  current websites involving the company. I've also been responsible for reaching out and communicating to clients and teams related to the work done for the company and helping to maintain those relationships. Owner/Designer SelfMade Co - Los Angeles, CA August 2016 to Present I design SelfMadeCo's line of streetwear to express today's independent spirit. I market and sell the products through the eCommerce site, SelfMadeCo.co, and manage its Instagram.    linkedin.com/in/alexandermireles alexandermireles, com GitHub.com/alexanderjmireles.com  a:12736 Caswell Ave. Los Angeles CA 90066 m: 419.304.6871 e: alexandermireles0@gmail.com Web Developer/Designer Alexander Mireles Web Solutions - Los Angeles, CA July 2015 to Present I develop websites and mobile apps, and manage branding, logo development, typography, content  creation, and social media marketing for clients in non-profit, professional services, hospitality, and retail  sectors.    Most recently I have been learning React Native as a possible alternative to creating hybrid mobile apps  instead of using Ionic Framework. I support the methodology of React Native more "learn once, write  everywhere" Web Developer/Designer Calabasas, CA June 2018 to February 2019 I was responsible for the front end coding on ASP.NET web applications. Depending on what the team  needed from me I created or modified the website's CSS, HTML, and Javascript. I also run testing and debug when needed. This role is much more design-centric but does at times call for me to work on the  backend as well as tend to server issues. Web Developer/IT Reef Check Foundation - Marina del Rey, CA March 2017 to February 2018 I was responsible for performing all web-related updates, maintenance, additions, and troubleshooting.  During this time I migrated and maintained the MYSQL databases. I diagnosed the cause of a Cent-OS  server crash and spun up a new server for the company. I also updated and maintained the Magento store for the company. In the day to day operations, I was also responsible for any front-end changes that needed  to be made. Education Diploma Anthony Wayne High School - Whitehouse, OH January 2011 Skills MYSQL, CSS, Javascript