Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Union bank of Scotland-NJ Teaneck, NJ • I have 5 years of experience in all facets of JEE Application design and development, Web based applications with Object Oriented Technologies, production support and testing.  • Experienced in Analysis, Designing, Development, Implementation and Deployment of High-Performance, Scalable, Distributed Applications.  • Experienced working with Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AngularJs.  • Experienced at Java EE technologies such as Servlets, JDBC and Web Services.  • Experience in implementing web application using Spring MVC.  • Experience in Java features such as Multi-threading.  • Worked with Relational Database Management Systems including Oracle, Sql and MySQL.  • Worked on different Application and Web Servers like Apache Tomcat, Glassfish and JBOSS.  • Experience in using the build tools MAVEN.  • Experience in using version control systems such as CVS, clear case, SVN and GIT.  • Provided JUnit test cases for the application to support the Test-Driven Development.  • Very much comfortable in analyzing, debugging, troubleshooting and solving problems and issues in application.  • Highly motivated team player, quick learner and proven record of capability to work under pressure and deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Union bank of Scotland-NJ May 2016 to Present Description: Security Management System, the project deals with Anonymizing networks such as Tor which allows users to access Internet services privately by using a series of routers to hide the client's IP address from the server this entire process is accomplished by using nymble, and thus, ensuring the security of the client.    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with Project Managers to get and understand business requirements.  • Analyzed and designed requirements provided by business users in the form of Detail Technical Document  • Involved in design and development phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), working in a fast paced like Agile-SCRUM.  • Developed the Application using Core Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, MySql, JDBC, Web Services -REST.  • Involved in development of front-end using JSP, HTML, CSS, Angular JS.  • Experience in Java features such as Multi-threading.  • To store and retrieve data we used MySql.  • Created the web application using MVC Spring framework and Used Eclipse as an IDE in the development environment.  • Designed developed and maintained the data layer using JDBC and performed configuration of Application Framework.  • Used Maven as build tools to run and deploy the Application.  • Worked on writing RESTful Services using Spring MVC on server side.  • Developed the web application using Servlets and JDBC.  • Used UI technologies JSP, CSS, JavaScript for building application.  • I worked on JMeter for testing JDBC Connections.  • Involved in daily Stand Up and Sprint meetings to discuss tasks. Java Developer Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN February 2014 to July 2015 Environment: Java, Spring MVC, JQuery, JSON, RESTful, JMS, DAO, HTML5, CSS Angular JS, JavaScript, Servlet, JSP, Web Services, MySql.  Client: Creative soft solution, Hyderabad, India Feb 2014 - Jul 2015  Role: Java Developer  Description: The objective of this application is to develop a Bug Tracking System for enhancing Software update and Security which is useful for applications developed in an organization. This system can be used for logging Bugs against an application/module, assigning Bugs to individuals and tracking the Bugs to resolution.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis design and development of Loan Processing Application.  • Developed UI screens using JSP, HTML.  • Used Spring Framework in the application which is based on MVC architecture.  • Developed using Spring Framework for business logic at the middle tier.  • JMS is used for exchanging the information like bug report between the developer and tester.  • Experience in installing, configuring and deploying application on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Developed web services for sending and getting data from different applications.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing for all the modules using Junit.  • Used JDBC to access MySQL database for accessing customer information.    Environment: core Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Spring MVC, JUnit, PL/SQL, DAO, Web Services, Restful, MySQL, Oracle 9i, Windows. Web Developer Transvelo - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2011 to December 2013 Description: Designed an application to verify employee details which is to be used by the HR department. Worked in creating forms to track functionalities such as, On-boarding new Employee (creating credentials and employee verification details), Employee vertically Moved/ Transferred/Promoted details (department and reporting details), Existing Employee Repository (used for maintaining a repository of existing employees).  Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in software development life cycle starting from requirements gathering and performing Object Oriented Analysis.  • Developed best standards for Web Front end. pages using HTML, CSS, Java Script, JSP.  • Used jQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Used JUnit to write repeatable tests mainly for unit testing.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls.    Environment: J2EE, Servlets 2.3, JSP 1.2, JDBC, HTML, UML, CSS, JavaScript, PL/SQL, Eclipse. Skills CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years), Java (5 years), JDBC (5 years), JSP (5 years) Links http://www.precisiontechcorp.com Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming language C++, Java, MySql, Pl/SQL  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, JSP, JSON, Angular JS.  Frameworks Struts, Spring.  Enterprise Technologies Java, JDBC, Servlets, AngularJS, Spring, Web Service  Integrated Development Environment JBuilder 10, NetBeans, Eclipse.    Operating Systems Windows, Linux, IOS, Mac-OS.  RDBMS Oracle, MySql.  Application & Web Service Specifications WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, Restful Services.  Version Control & Build Tool SVN, GIT& Maven.