Sr. .NET Developer Sr. .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. .NET Developer - EviCore New York, NY ? Experience in all phases of SDLC design and development of Enterprise-level web and windows applications using Microsoft Technologies.  ? Proficient in Object Oriented Programming (OOP's), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern.  ? Strong experience in developing Web applications under .NET Framework using C#,ASP.NET, ADO.NET, MVC, WPF, Web Services and WCF.  ? Experience in reporting and analysis using Crystal Reports, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) with in .net Environment.  ? Extensive experience in using C#, ASP.NET 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0, ADO.NET, VB.Net, Web Forms and Web Controls.  ? Expertise in Developing, Publishing & Consuming REST & SOAP Services using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  ? Experience working with Windows Azure, ASP.NET MVC framework, JQuery frameworks, Angular JS, WCF, WEB API.  ? Experience in automating the infrastructure in AWS using web services.  ? Experience in designing and branding Master Pages utilizing Server Controls, User Controls, Data Grid control, Form Validation controls, Custom controls and CSS.  ? Strong experience in data retrieval and manipulation using ADO.NET data objects such as Dataset, Data Reader, Data list, Data Adapter.  ? Expertise in writing Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, Views, Triggers, Exception Handling using SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle.  ? Experience in creating and consuming Web Services, Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), and Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF).  ? Developed reports using Crystal Reports, Microsoft Report Viewer, and also XSLT.  ? Expertise in Web Application development (WinForms) in .NET technologies (.NET 1.1/2.0/3.5).  ? Experience of handling queries using .NET 3.5/4.0 LINQ components.  ? Experience in using scripting languages like Java script.  ? Extensive experience in performing various testing methodologies like functionality testing, Integration testing and Performance Tuning of application both Front-End and Back-end.  ? Experience in working with Visual Studio 2013/2012/2010/2008/05/03, SQL Server 2012/2008/05, HTML and DHTML.  ? Working experience on LINQ to Objects, LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML, Prism and MVVM framework.  ? Used various Transformations Dataflow and Control Flow, Implemented Event Handlers and Error Handling in SSIS packages.  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the application.  ? Proficient working with Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Views on SQL Server.  ? Experience with Software Development Processes & Models: Agile, Waterfall & Scrum  ? Ability to conceptualize, document, and communicate project ideas and plans. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. .NET Developer EviCore - Franklin, TN November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in requirements gathering, Problem Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Maintenance of the System.  ? Worked on Agile Methodology to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  ? Designed and developed the application using MS Visual Studio 2010, ASP.Net 4.0, AJAX and  ? C #advanced feature forms authentication.  ? Developed stored procedures using T-SQL and built the data access layer using ADO.NET.  ? Experience programming and troubleshooting in C#, ASP.NET, VB.NET, VB6, Web Services.  ? Designed and developed master web pages using ASP.NET 4.0 web form controls, Custom user Controls and Ajax controls in C#.  ? Implement user interface using Model-View-ViewModel ( MVVM) pattern  ? Developed code based on SOLID principles and implemented Dependency Injection with constructor Injections using Ninject as IOC container.  ? Worked with jQuery to traverse through HTML elements, manipulate web page content, handle events, and working with AJAX using jQuery.  ? Utilized NUnit in ASP.Net MVC and Jasmine in AngularJS for unit testing.  ? Used Entity Framework Database first approach to design Database schema.  ? Designed data access layer using SQL Server 2008 and the Entity Framework in the data tier with queries being written with LINQ to Entities.  ? Used MVVM pattern while building WPF application.  ? Implemented applications using ASP.NET 3.5, C#, WCF, WPF, Restful services, XML, JSON, XAML, Azure, storage explorer and SQL Server.  ? Experience in using LINQ in Web pages to retrieve and modify data.  ? Worked on SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT) and PowerShell Scripting.  ? Experience in using JavaScript framework Angular JS.  ? Extensive working knowledge on Configuring and version controlling with Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual Source safe (VSS).  ? Analyzed and designed new WPF application using MVVM and Repository pattern, from design to completion.  ? Used AngularJS HTTP methods to retrieve employee task data from entity models.  ? Created new model classes in Web API to hold data.  ? Used HTML5 for developing the webpages.  ? Created new SSIS packages for populating data into MS SQL database.  ? Used WCF to provide various Services like authentication, User Definition, Logging, Configuration and Data Access to the applications.  ? Have experience implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML Web Services using SOAP.  ? Created a DbContext class and inserted Dependency Injection to utilize the context class throughout the project.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 2.  ? Responsible to deploy code solutions and run PowerShell scripts.  ? Used VB.NET in MVC framework for front-end development  ? Used UML, Win Forms and C# to design and develop the code analyzer  ? Created Stored Procedures to perform automated rules, updating to related tables using SQL Server 2008.  ? Performed unit testing using NUnit testing framework.  ? Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#.NET.  ? Used JavaScript functions to implement complex Business Rules and Validation of front end forms.  ? Expert in using JavaScript and ASP.NET validation controls for performing Form Validations  ? Worked on web pages and business objects using JavaScript, XML in a mixed ASP.NET environment.  ? Extensive used on UI development experience using HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Developed Custom Controls and Utilized JavaScript to create Client-side validations that greatly decreased processing time and resource consumption, freeing resources for use by other applications and speeding up processing times. .NET Developer Advinow Medical - Scottsdale, AZ May 2016 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Designed user interface using ASP.NET web forms and implemented application logic using C#.NET.  ? Design, Development and testing of REST web services called by Silverlight UI using ADO.Net data services and Entity framework.  ? Designed and developed an Expense Reimbursement system using a WPF presentation layer and WCF Windows-based (TCP) services.  ? Used WCF for interoperability with other platforms, technologies and for building the custom solutions.  ? Created RESTFUL services using Web API, built HTTP services and formatted responses using web API media type formatter to JSON.  ? Developed windows services for automatic emailing the events happening and reporting.  ? Implemented WCF endpoints for services for communication in different protocols and configured WCF service to authenticate clients with Windows credentials.  ? Designed and developed Win Forms for internal use and Web Forms using ASP.NET.  ? Developed the Web Application in ASP.Net 3.0 using Master Page, Themes & skins to maintain the consistent look and feel throughout the application.  ? Program desktop applications using Agile and MVVM development principles  ? Created event driven Web Forms using ASP.NET and implemented form validation using JavaScript.  ? Used Oracle 11g and SQL Server 2008 as Backend and written stored procedures etc.  ? Created CSS files to be applied to various web forms on the web pages.  ? Designed and implemented the data access assembly using ADO.NET, VB.NET, and SQL Server.  ? Participated in internal system tools WPF based client/server.  ? Implemented Page Level Error Handling using Custom Error pages and Error logs.  ? Implemented Sitecore features for content management system.  ? Used LINQ to SQL (object relational mapping) for integrating data validation and business logic rules into data model and used Data Grids, Repeaters and Data Lists for user and administrator for reports with multiple pages.  ? Utilized Autofac for Dependency Injection design pattern  ? Developed Oracle PL/SQL stored procedures, Functions, Packages, SQL scripts to facilitate the functionality for various modules.  ? Generated various reports using Crystal Reports.  ? Created databases and database objects including tables, indexes and applied constraints, connected various applications to the database and written functions, User Defined functions and triggers in SQLserver2008.  ? Developed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low-cost application integration and multi-tier web applications with the use of Web Services using ASP.NET CORE.Net Web API.  ? Worked on Microsoft Team Foundation Server for version control, individual task status and Database server project.  ? Developed web solutions using Visual Studio 2005/2008/2010/2012 C#, VB. NET, ASP. Net 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0, MVC 3.0 / 4.0/5.0, MVVM, MVP ADO. Net, XML, Web Forms  ? Used HTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), Themes and JavaScript to develop and implement a user-friendly UI design for the presentation layer.  ? Used Inject inversion control and MOQ dependency injection in decreasing the dependency between models in application.  ? Proficient in Model View Control (MVC) design pattern, Model-View-View Model (MVVM) design Pattern, Team Foundation Server (TFS) and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  ? Designed and developed the user interface for various tools and implemented ASP.NET validation controls, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap for server and client side validations respectively.  ? Responsible for unit testing and design document creation.  ? Experience in all facets of SDLC including Requirement gathering, Specification reviews, Designing, Implementing, testing, Quality Assurance, and Maintenance.  ? Perform all facets of design, application development and deployment within the .NET architecture based on programming guidelines/standards. Web Developer Vujas Infotech - IN August 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Developed application using MVC 5.0, C#, WEB API, HTML 5 using Visual Studio 2012 and Entity Framework.  ? Applied various styles and triggers with in the view and also binded a lot of design properties of user controls to the properties of View model.  ? Used knockout JS, Angular JS and Bootstrap in creating the UI layer and validating it  ? Applied CSS styles for designing various user controls with in the GUI.  ? Also wrote and modified the business logic present in the repositories at times.  ? Created and consumed web api, Web Services.  ? Designed and implemented the service layer using the custom HTTP handler which supports both XML and JSON for request/response.  ? Working on creating Rest Services using ASP.NET Web API and C#, Razor template engine.  ? Worked with Web API to provide services to HTTP requests.  ? Co-ordinate with UX team to help them in designing the page.  ? Develops rest API'S in laravel, CI and Nodejs for mobile apps.  ? Used AngularJS, which communicated with a RESTful web service.  ? Developed Data access layer using ADO .net Objects and C#.  ? Implemented Knockout.js for binding huge data in Web pages.  ? Implemented this project using ASP.NET as a presentation architecture  ? Extensive use of Web Services, (WCF) Services and SOA protocols  ? Accessing the Data from database and XML's using LINQ.  ? Added new feature in application like more than 30 types of file formats and as per the requirements from the Client.  ? Wrote Complex nested queries, stored procedures, Triggers, Functions, and Indexes to improve the throughput of application using optimized queries in SQL server, Multithreading Education Master's Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, .net framework 4.5, Wcf, Winforms, Ms project, Xml, Xsl, Xslt, Ado, Database, Access 2010, Ado.net, Ado.net entity framework, Sql server, WPF, MVC, ASP, Jquery, Angular Additional Information Technical Skills:    .NET Technologies .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, C#, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC 3/4/5, ADO.NET, LINQ, ADO.NET Entity Framework, WCF and WPF.  Languages Objective-C, C#.NET 5.0/4.5/4.0/3.5, JavaScript, Java, C++.  Internet Applications  HTML/HTML5, DHTML, Web Services, JavaScript, JQuery, PowerShell script, AJAX,XPATH, XML, XSL, XSLT, XAML, WinForms, Web Forms, WCF, WPF, MVC 4.    Web Server Microsoft IIS 7.0, 6.0, 5.1, 5.0, Apache.  IDE/Tools Visual Studio 2015/2013/2012/2010/2008/2005, SQL Server Management Studio 2012.  Database My SQL Server R2 2012/2010/2008/2005,MS-Access 2010/2007/2003,T-SQL,Oracle 9i/10g/11g.  Protocols SOAP, HTTP, TCP/IP.  Version Control Tool Team Foundation Server (TFS), VSS& GIT.  Project Management MS Project, MS Office.  Operating Systems Windows 2008/2007/Vista/XP/2003/2000, Linux, Unix.