Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - Charter Communications- Missouri Santa Clara, CA • 7 years of experience in Analysis, Development, Support and Implementation of Web based applications with Java Technologies.  • Strong understanding and skills in developing, professional, AJAX driven elegant enterprise web applications using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, JSON, Bootstrap, JQUERY, and various Java and JavaScript design patterns.  • Extensive experience in developing web pages in improving performance, maintainability and making them cross browser compatible using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, Angular 6, Angular 4, Angular 2, ReactJS, NodeJS, BackboneJS etc.  • Developed single page applications using Angular, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap. Involved in creating quality mockups and prototypes.  • Excellent skills in developing single page applications (SPA's) using AngularJS, ReactJS and BackboneJS.  • Proficient in RDBMS concepts including writing stored procedures using TSQL in MS SQL Server and good experience on PL/SQL in Oracle 8i/9i/11g and Access to include physical design and Logical DB.  • Involved to create the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3 based on the W3C and ADA standards.  • Developed page layouts, navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Experience with browser testing, knowledge of cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility.  • Experience in using GIT, SVN, and Visual SourceSafe (VSS) to provide source code management.  • Well knowledge of various frameworks of JavaScript like jQuery, jQuery UI and jQuery Mobile.  • Hands on experience with NoSQL Databases like MongoDB.  • Experienced in using Front End editors like Sublime Text2, Brackets, Notepad Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, Developer Tools, Edit Plus, JSfiddle, WebStorm.  • Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or Safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar.  • Experience applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented OO JavaScript, JSON and XML.  • Experience in writing complex database queries, stored procedures, and triggers using SQL, SQL Plus, PL/SQL. Strong Skills in Database Design, Process and Data Models.  • Experience in RDBMS like Oracle, My SQL, MS SQL Server, DB2 and MS access. Work Experience Software Engineer Charter Communications- Missouri October 2018 to Present Job Responsibilities:  • Involved in service activation team for developing User Interface for services using front end framework Angular 6/7 with HTML5 and CSS3 and SCSS.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using Angular 6 and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Yarn.  • Used Angular 7/8 to create UI for HR team which acts a bridge to call the Tableau dashboards.  • Used Angular highcharts library for implementing graphical representation to display the dB statistics with daily, weekly, monthly and yearly view.  • Applied techniques for cross-browser and cross-platform interface development using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked on creating Typescript reusable components to consume REST API's using component-based architecture provided by Angular.  • Experience in JavaScript Unit Testing using QUnit, and Angular e2e using Jasmine, also worked on Karma, Protractor and have a good understanding on Mocha.  • Experience in deployment of various application packages including JAR, WAR on Tomcat WebLogic server.  • Analyzed Log files such as WebLogic server logs.  • Used Bitbucket repository for software configuration management and version control.  • Debugged the website using Chrome Developer's tool and manipulated the nodes using DOM functions.  • Experienced in creation of Maven Project using the dist folder created from the web app and building a war file to deploy it onto the Tomcat Server.  • Worked with onsite and offshore back-end developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  Environment: Angular 6/7, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bitbucket, Node.js, SCSS, Jasmine, Karma, Agile, JSON, RESTful. Sr UI Developer Walt Disney World - Florida February 2017 to September 2018 Job Responsibilities:  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Worked on the payments platform at Disney mainly working on building the templates for these pages using HTML5, building Angular 2 components using typescript and services to consume data from back end REST API's.  • Developed responsive web designs using HTML5 and CSS3 for hand held devices.  • Designed and developed code for table less web interfaces using XHTML, CSS, DOM and JavaScript.  • Expertise in working with the JavaScript frameworks like JQUERY and Angular4.  • Involved in migrating from AngularJS to Angular 2.0 and built Angular components using typescript.  • Hands on experience working on Angular 4.0/2.0 services, modules and component directives.  • Experience with CMS (content management system) tool for putting in the and managing the content for Disney guest facing and cast facing campaigns.  • Developed the functionality for communicating between the modules mostly involved in VIEW and CONTOLLER section of MVC pattern for CMS project, it includes HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX which were used for UI development.  • Developed all the page styles by using Bootstrap and SASS instead of CSS to gain a better structure of the stylesheets for a maintain purpose.  • Implemented latest HTML5 and CSS3 features like creating various effects, shading, 2D 3D animation, Shapes, Handling multimedia files and many others.  • Responsible for designing Front-side of the website like embedded graphics, and interactive documents using JavaScript, XML, HTML and CSS.  • Created web services and desktop applications to access and display data needed by support teams using, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, Backbone.js, Angular. Js, NodeJS, Java, CSS and HTML.  • Built data visualizations to monitor file server load, Web server speed, Data Processing jQuery and MySQL.  • Maintained cross browser compatibility, implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc.  • Created dynamic HTML5 pages with JavaScript and CSS3 for their Intranet software product.  Used JSON format to serialize and transmit structured data over network connection.  • Implemented and used web services with the help of WSDL, SOAP, REST and JAX-WS to get updates from third-parties.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  • Developed presentation and UI components using JSP, Struts Tag Library, AJAX, Java Beans, XML, HTML, CSS, Custom Tag and JavaScript.  • Developed enhancements to MongoDB architecture to improve performance and scalability.  • Expertise in using NPM and bower package management for light weight business and manage node packages such as mongoose/mongo for MongoDB connections.  • Implemented build scripts using ANT to create WAR and deploy in application server.  • Used Log4j for External Configuration Files debugging and added unit tests to the code base using Jasmine.  • Developed ANT scripts and used Maven tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Angular 4, Angular 2, NodeJS, JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, Jasmine and Karma, JavaScript, XML, DOM, Java Beans, JSON, Ajax, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Oracle, Pl/SQL, Web Services, jQuery, Backbone.js, ReqUIre.js, NodeJS, Maven. UI Developer JC Penney - Texas August 2015 to February 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Migrated from AngularJS to Angular 2.0 and involved in building Angular components.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS.  • Using AngularJS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Improved dependency injection for modular development and component isolation using AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS for rich Used Ajax effectively to create pagination and with client end events like quick search.  • Created HTML mockups for mobile as well as Tablet devices as per UID using CSS3 and HTML5 for both landscape and Portrait view.  • Designed and Developed User Interactive UI of web pages with the help of HTML5, HTML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using AngularJS, NodeJS, EXTJS and jQuery.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Experienced in building web application using ASP.NET MVC5.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Configure the Sprites and incorporate the best SEO practices to make the website Google friendly.  • Experience in developing single page responsive web applications using React JS and Node JS.  • Worked on Unit testing, Web Application Testing and end to end testing using frameworks like Mocha, Chai.  • Created Master Pages, CSS Styles Sheets and Integrated to Silver light and got approval from Business Stake holders.  • Used Web Services like REST and SOAP for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Created HTML navigation menu that is role-based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Used AJAX for implementing dynamic Webpages where the content was fetched via API calls and updated the DOM JSON Parsing.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle 10g database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  • Involved in designing test plans, test cases and overall Unit testing of the system.  • Used Log4j for External Configuration Files and debugging.  • Used JUnit for debugging the application.  • Designed and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Python, jQuery, Ajax, Web Services, Oracle, JSON, PL/SQL, AngularJS, Angular 2, NodeJS, BackboneJS, XML, Adobe Flesh, Dreamweaver, DOM, PL/SQL, Oracle, Windows, JUnit, SVN and GULP. UI/ Web developer Molina Healthcare - California August 2014 to July 2015 Job Responsibilities:  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS.  • Experience using ReactJS, NodeJS and JavaScript to provide UI functionality.  • Developed various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, ReactJS, and JavaScript(ES6/5).  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, and CSS2/3 based on the W3C standards.  • Designed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript framework.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like NodeJS, ReactJS, HTML4/5, XHTML, and CSS2/3, Bootstrap based on theW3C standards.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc.  • Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • Involved in designing and implementing Web Rich UI for the Self-service Application using jQuery Ajax framework and Widget based JavaScript programmed model.  • Created Master Pages, CSS Styles Sheets and Integrated to Silver light and got approval from Business Stake holders.  • Developed the custom data grids upon jQuery framework to deliver the business data.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, screen mock-ups, and interface design.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and draggable components using jQuery UI Library.  • Developed automated scripts using selenium web driver and implemented framework using Java distributed devices.  • Used AJAX effectively to create pagination and with client-side events like quick search.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Involved in JavaScript coding for validations and passing attributes from one screen to another.  • Worked with the team of architects and back-end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS, ReactJS, Bootstrap, XML, DHTML. Java UI/ Web Developer HSBC - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2012 to July 2014 Job Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure. Defined text alignment, size, borders and many other typographic characteristics.  • Responsible for developing, editing, publishing and managing content on the external Web pages and internal layouts using HTML, CSS including AJAX controls and XML.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for the website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 & JavaScript.  • Tested Web Services using SOAP UI tool as a part of unit testing using SVN for software configuration management and version control.  • Preparing test cases and strategies for unit testing and integration testing.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Using Java Script and Struts validation frame work for performing front end validations.  • Wrote SQL queries and PL/SQL procedures for JDBC.  • HTML5 and CSS3 code optimization and testing against W3C validations and for the cross-browser compatibility.  • Using the LOG4j to log regular Debug and Exception statements. Used JQUERY DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Worked for backward compatibility to support browsers like IE6, IE7, IE8.    Environment: HTML, CSS, XML, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, Maven, WebSphere, APACHE AXIS, UML, SOA, Sun Metro stack, SOAP UI, SOAP, Oracle. Java UI Developer Steel Wedge - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2012 to November 2012 Job Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface with HTML, PHP and JavaScript.  • Developed session EJB and message driven bean (MDB) to process JMS XML messages JSPs, Servlets, XML descriptors, using WebSphere Application Server.  • Implemented front end UI of the application using HTML, CSS, JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Designed JSP pages for Initial applications, Submissions and Maintenance Involved in implementing Message Driven Beans using for JMS systems.  • Worked on development of database using SQL with MySQL.  • Worked on BackboneJS and JQUERY to develop outsourced UI.  • External customer portal is developed in annotation-based Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Designed and Developed End to End customer self service module using annotation-based Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP and JQUERY.  • Expertise with CSS Selectors, classes, ids, pseudo classes, Inheritance and concepts.  • Designed, developed and updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS, Dreamweaver, and JavaScript.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Played an active role in testing the application by writing test cases for different scenarios.  • Developed application using Eclipse and worked on JBOSS Application Server to deploy application.  • Used JUnit testing tool to test the code.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JSON, AJAX, Java 1.6, JSP, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, WebLogic application server, MySQL, Eclipse RCP, CVS, JUnit. Skills Visual studio, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Reactjs, Json, Svn, Xml, Eclipse, jquery, Angularjs, Html5, Sass, Ajax, Tomcat, Ui web, Web server, Weblogic, Database Additional Information Technical Skills:    UI Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, XML, AJAX, JSON, UI Concept Modeling/Wire framing, Bootstrap, SASS, Gulp.  UI Frameworks Angular 6/7/8, Angular 4, Angular 2, AngularJS, BackboneJS, NodeJS, ReactJS, JQUERY, JavaScript.  IDE, HTML Editor Visual Studio Code, Sublime text 3, Eclipse IDE, Notepad++, Edit Plus, WebStorm.  Version Control GIT LAB, SVN.  Debugging Tools JIRA, Rally, JUnit, Jasmine, Karma.  Web/App Servers WebLogic, Apache Tomcat, HTTP Web Server.  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Rational Unified Process (RUP).  Database MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle11g/10g, SQL 2008/2012, PL/SQL.