Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web developer with design experience specializing in Wordpress and the LAMP stack Oakland, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer SFMOMA - San Francisco, CA September 2015 to August 2019 Developed a number of auxiliary sites such as Openspace and Public Knowledge as well as sfmoma.org Web Designer/ Developer YouNoodle - San Francisco, CA February 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities  Overseeing, designing and executing production of microsites on a contractual basis.     Accomplishments  Built two microsites    Skills Used  Photoshop, Illustrator, Teamwork Graphic Designer & Web Developer Red Oxygen - San Francisco, CA June 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities  Overseeing, designing and executing production of still & animated visual materials for web and video.     Working with marketing to deliver materials for business-to-business & business-to-customer interactions.     Skills Used  HTML, CSS, JS, PHP, Photoshop, Illustrator, After Effects, Flash, Powerpoint, Acrobat, Wordpress Graphic Designer, Web Developer dataVerve - San Francisco Bay Area, CA March 2015 to June 2015 Responsibilities  Redesign logo and assist with development of website.    Skills Used  HTML, CSS, JS, Illustrator Designer MiMunch - San Francisco Bay Area, CA February 2015 to April 2015 Responsibilities  Overseeing, designing and executing production of visual materials for their website and UI/UX of mobile app.    Skills Used  HTML, CSS, Photoshop, Illustrator Creative Director & Web Developer MKTGKINGS - Oakland, CA August 2014 to October 2014 Responsibilities  Overseeing, designing and executing production of still & animated visual materials for web.  Building websites for clients on a per project basis.     Accomplishments  Built & updated websites for the company's clients    Skills Used  HTML, CSS, PHP, JS, Wordpress, Photoshop, Illustrator Graphic Designer & Web Developer American Digital University - White Plains, NY May 2014 to September 2014 Responsibilities  Oversaw, designed and executed production of visual materials for web and print.     Designed and developed their web site.    Animated educational videos for online courses.     Skills Used  HTML, CSS, JS, After Effects, Maya, Photoshop, Illustrator, Wordpress, PHP Graphic & Web Lead Direct Stone Tool Supply - San Leandro, CA December 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities  Oversaw, designed and executed production of visual materials for web and print.    Designed, developed and maintained an e-commerce site.    Skills Used  HTML, CSS, JS, Photoshop, Illustrator Technical illustrator Brewer Science - Rolla, MO 2008 to 2008 Conceptualize and create illustrations on a contractual basis Technical Illustrator Infoscitex - Waltham, MA 2005 to 2007 Full time employee during the summer and part time employee during the school year  • Conceptualized and created technical illustrations for proposals and final reports for the materials and systems divisions.  • Subject matter included physiological monitoring systems, structural components, chemical generating systems, medical devices, nano-science based systems/devices, defense systems, and personal defense systems.  • Worked flawlessly in meeting their fast-paced deadlines. Education B.A. in Digital Media Hampshire College - Amherst, MA 2010 Newton South High School - Newton, MA 2006 Skills HTML, CSS, Javascript, PHP, Wordpress, LAMP, SCSS, es6, grunt, Adobe Creative Suite, Autodesk Maya, Autodesk 3ds Max, Maxon Cinema 4D, Apple Motion, Apple Final Cut Pro, Apple Logic Pro, Propellerhead Reason, Ableton Live, Avid Pro Tools, Adobe Actionscript 3.0, PHP, Wordpress, Javascript, Front End Links http://www.zrrdigitalmedia.com