React Developer React <span class="hl">Developer</span> React Developer - CDK Global Portland, OR • 6 Years of Experience in developing web applications and interactive software products using HTML, CSS, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular2, AngularJS, Node.js, React.JS, Redux, Lerna, Storybook, Socket IO, mongoDB.  • Experience working in Node.js, Express.js, NGiNX, and Redis.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTFUL Web Services.  • Experience in working with different State Management Tools such as Redux, Flux.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Experience in version control tools including GIT and SVN.  • Designed and coded application components in an agile environment utilizing a test-driven development approach.  • Experience in deploying and configuring multi-tier enterprise applications on multiple cloud servers such as AWS, Digital Ocean.  • Working knowledge of popular Service management systems like Jenkins.  • Worked in close cooperation with project managers and other functional team members to form a team effort in development.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  • Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, JavaScript functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Firebug, Developer Tool Bar.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  • Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with strong attention to detail.  • Expert in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of future pages.  • Experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Experience using AJAX to create interactive web applications, mainly focusing at increasing performance.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTFUL Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with strong attention to detail. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience React Developer CDK Global - Portland, OR October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developing and Packaging reusable React Components to serve different pages in the project.  • Building UI Component Library for project and updating them to private npm package repository.  • Responsible for code review of every pull request to the project repository.  • Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to increase productivity, and improve communication  • Performance tuning the Web App using the chrome dev tools and Monitor the Critical Rendering Path.  • Configured front end packaging tools such as Webpack, babel.  • Developed a front-end web application using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, React.js, Redux, ES6 and NPM.  • Involving in implementing various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Working in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Redux concept.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide- View, and Table Grid.  • Using React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Utilized LESS preprocessors of CSS to extend CSS with variables, operators, interpolations, functions and many more other usable assets  • Integrated React and Redux to keep track of application state with stores and designed components with dispatched actions that manipulate objects with actions.    Environment: React JS, Redux, Lerna.js, Webpack, Less, Babel, Jest, Visual Studio Code, JIRA, GIT. React JS Developer Omnicell - Pittsburgh, PA April 2017 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Design Prototype and Implementation using Node.JS and Socket IO Integration.  • Works on Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  • Designing and developing the web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React.js, Redux, Flex, Node JS, MongoDB,  • Responsible to Style, look and feel of the webpage with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Works on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture  • Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Implement various screens for the frontend using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Works in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Implements stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used React-autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Develops the React container and presentation all components (as State less and Functional components when applicable).  • Develops the flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  • Configured Web pack to execute linters, magnifiers, pre/post-processors, tests, transpires, etc. based on build target.  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage modules & used it to install useful tools as Grunt, and Express.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between Server Side to Client Side  • Worked with Mocha unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, Flex, JIRA, Mocha, GitHub, Jenkins and Web Strom. Frontend UI Developer Capital One Bank - Allen, VA, US January 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and React.JS  • Involved in designing the CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Involved in responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  • Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Involved in building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Dragabble  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using react.  • Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • Used Node JS to run Web pack tasks and build properly the project.  • Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements  • Involved in using excel builder 3rd Party open source library and tweak it to make sure it will work with IE11.  • Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • In Phase Two, worked closely with the Back-End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  • Working with ECMA Script 6 features. For build of JSX and ES2015,(ES6) used Babel, web pack.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Added dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  • Optimized animation logic with optimistic functions to increase performance in rendering.  • Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  • Involved in Restful web services to call for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Have worked on AWS for fetch the pictures and Videos from AWS to UI  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, Sass, Less, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Ajax, React JS, Redux, Flex, My SQL, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, Git hub, Restful API, AWS, Mongo DB, HP Quality Center, Jasmine and Web Strom UI Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN April 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete Software Development Life Cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging, and Production support for the project.  • Created UI of Web pages with the assistance of HTML5, XML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Node.js, AJAX, and Angular.js.  • Used Angular.js as a framework to create Single Page Application (SPA) to improve page performance, which can bind data to specific views.  • Used Angular.js two-way data binding and $resource services to make calls to the web services and exchange the data between the front-end and back-end.  • Development of client-side validation techniques using jQuery and Angular.js directives.  • Developed responsive Web pages using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  • Worked on SASS to build optimized CSS to work across multiple web pages and styles.  • Created, edited, and maintained sites implementing responsive designs and themes using front-end development frameworks including Bootstrap.  • Used Node package manager (NPM) to manage the modules and to install GRUNT tool.  • Developed modules to retrieve and improve data using Ajax calls by $http service in Angular.js  • Developed fast loading images using Photoshop CS3.  • Developed Unit and E2E test cases using Jasmine, Grunt and Node Js.  • Used CSS and jQuery for the rich user interface.  • Used Source Tree, GIT for version control for defect tracking.  • Designed RWD Web pages, which are good for mobiles, tablets, and PC utilizing the framework like bootstrap and CSS media queries.  • Implemented Angular based views and used Routers to implement logic to exhibit different views.  • Used $http in Angular.js for consuming RESTful web services.  • Used Node.js to build a scalable network application where it can handle many connections concurrently.  • Used Node.js for communication to the server through RESTful API.    Environment: Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, MVC, Node.js, Grunt, Mongo DB, Gulp, karma, JIRA, Protractor, Jasmine, Jenkins, HTML4/5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, Backbone.js, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, , Photoshop, AGILE, RESTful, JIRA, GIT. Web / UI Developer Rational Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Web design and advancement, Tablet using HTML, JavaScript and Dreamweaver.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery and backbone.js.  • Designing the project flow in UML.  • Used JSF to build a Web Application for Administration purposes.  • Worked on low-level design and development of new features.  • Ensure appropriate application of Software life cycle and serve for the software system  • Design and develop user interfaces using JSP, JavaScript and HTML  • Developed Java Servlet on server side for handling requests and responses from the Web pages.  • Worked extensively with GWT to implement server calls and HTML pages.  • Written test cases for unit testing the code using JUnit testing Framework.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers and Views to populate the database Oracle and maintained the data integrity.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Used JIRA to track down the progress of the tasks and complete it on time.  • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JIRA, JQuery, Bootstrap, MYSQL, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, Apache, SVN. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science St. Mary's University. Masters in computer information systems in computer information systems Calums University Skills Visual studio, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Redux, Svn, Css, Angularjs, Unit testing, Database, Mysql, Eclipse, Intellij idea, jquery, Mongodb, Version control, Linux, Mac, UI Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies: HTML, CSS,LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular2, AngularJS, Node.js, React.JS, Redux, Lerna, Storybook, Socket IO.  Database: MySQL, MongoDB  Unit Testing: Mocha, Jest  Web Fra: Eclipse, WebStorm, Intellij Idea, Visual Studio Notepad++, SublimeText.  Version Control: SVN, (torisan svn) and Github, BitBucket.  Debugging Tools: Firebug, Chrome Developer toolbar, IE Developer Toolbar.  Operating Systems: Windows, MAC, Linux