UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - AT&T Addison, TX • Having 6+ Years of progressive experience in all phases of software development life cycle including application design, development, Integration, maintenance and testing of various client/server web applications. Web development using interactive Web 2.0 technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Angular2/4, JavaScript/DOM Scripting, JS Libraries/JS framework (JQuery, Prototype, YUI, etc.), JSON, AJAX.  • Experienced as a User Interface/Front End Developer in developing applications using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, jQuery, Ajax and JSON.  • Experience in SQL, MySQL, Database Triggers, Cursors, Packages, Stored procedures, Functions and Exceptions.  • Created a dashboard using Bootstrap 3.0., Used D3.js for charting, jQuery and JavaScript for creating view models.  • Experience in working with HTML Controls, Server Controls, Validation Controls, Master Pages and Themes, Web parts, State Management, Configuring and Deployment.  • Good Experience using Grunt for Front End Task Runner.  • Experience in developing using HTML5, CSS, AJAX, Object oriented JavaScript, JQuery, XML and AngularJS.  • Good experience using HTML5/CSS3 development.  • Developed on demand, combo and compression server using Node.js  • Good Experience using LESS.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2/4, Typescript, web pack and grunt.  • Working closing with Director on Nextgen versions of current applications (Angular 2/4).  • Used Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment tools such as Jenkins.  • Expert in working with JavaScript frameworks and libraries like AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Backbone and Restful services.  • Worked with Node JS, Express, Grunt, Gulp and Bower for setting up local server, running tasks and managing dependencies.  • Worked on JavaScript framework (AngularJS,) to augment browser-based applications with MVC capability.  • Experience in designing and presenting multiple concepts and iterations around user interaction models, workflows, wireframes, screen flows, mockups and prototypes.  • Experience working with Responsive Web design.  • Experience working with JavaScript MVC frameworks AngularJS.  • Experienced in designing Using Web Standards.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Worked extensively in Agile Development process.  • Experience in software configuration management using SVN, GIT.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments.  • Having Strong written and oral communication skills.  • Involved in Understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements.    Skills Profile Technical:  Language C, C++ and Java  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS Work Experience UI Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing responsive web pages using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  • Involved in the re-design and architecture of Designee Management System application using client technologies like Angular 2/4.  • Participate in technical design discussions and then code and implement  • Wrote extensive HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages  • Involved in development of forms for Application Process and Selection process in Angular 2/4.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular UI Bootstrap for creating rich, Responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes and devices.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux  • Used Bugzilla and Red mine as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Developed pages that are cross browser compatible across the browser like Internet Explorer versions 7 through 9(Win XP, 2K3 and Win 7 OS), Mozilla Firefox, Safari (Win and OS X), etc.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status  • Used web based GIT repository manager with issue tracking features.  • Created various Angular directives, controllers, DOM, expressions, templates, data binding, etc.  • Implemented the Select and Appoint feature for the applicants who filled the applications using the external module of the Designee Management System applications using Angular  • Using Visual Studio Code, Angular 4, TypeScript and the Angular CLI for coding, scaffolding, data binding, debugging, compiling, bundling, minifying and building modules (i.e. components, services, pipes, directives, routes)  • Implemented Angular promises to handle asynchronous communication with our Rest API for various requirements  • Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines; Performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes  • Implemented nested views and routing using Angular UI Router as per the requirement  • Used Responsive Framework for developing the webpage compatible for devices of all sizes.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Good experience in creating custom directives.  • Knowledge about translation and localization with AngularJS.  • Developed new user interface components for different modules using Kendo UI.  • Good experience with Form Validation by Regular Expression.  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM estimating the timelines for projects.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Quick learner and proficient in solving the technical issues in the project.    Environment: JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, HTML5, CSS3Bootstarp, AngularJS, XML, Eclipse. UI Developer Wells Fargo - Bordentown, NJ November 2016 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the front end applications using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JSTL and AngularJS.  • Used Responsive Framework for developing the webpage compatible for devices of all sizes.  • Brought the HTML and CSS of an existing web site to the latest web standards.  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for user interactions in pages.  • Wrote different data procedures in XML for their respective attributes.  • Used firebug, IE developer toolbar and chrome canary tool for debugging java script and fixing issues.  • Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3.  • Used Firebug for debugging and for element styling.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the Mongo DB for the application on devices.  • Used Mongoose API in order to access the Mongo DB from Node JS.  • Worked on version control system, on day-to-day basis to maintain the code history.  • Built the Client using gulp builds.  • Followed TDD approach.  • Performed unit testing using Jasmine and integration testing to check the cross-browser compatibility.  • Used bower and npm to install the necessary packages for project.  • Developed interactive websites using Java Script and jQuery.  • Experience in assisting the UX Designers and suggesting them with the best User Experience.  • Experience using Angular UI framework for carousels, accordions, etc.  • Worked with jQuery UI to customize many applications needs and achieve an efficient user interface.  • Experience working with VSCode and WebStorm.  • Experience working with simulator to mock the backend data for development purpose.  • Experience with JIRA - the agile tracking tool.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Developed complex, usable, attractive and cross-browser web interfaces that account for speed, file size, readability and accessibility.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules.    Environment: JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, responsive design, Backbone.JS, XML, JSTL, JSP and Eclipse. UI Developer Stanford Healthcare - San Francisco, CA November 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developed dynamic web pages using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, jQuery, JSON, AngularJS.  ? Coded in AngularJS MVC framework to build Web application for the internal use of the organization.  ? Wrote application level code to add functionality to the perform client side validation using AngularJS and JavaScript.  ? Developed tabbed pages by using AngularJS directives.  ? Developed custom directives, factories and services in AngularJS.  ? Used various features in Angular JS like data binding, routing, custom filters, custom directives to meet various customized requirements.  ? Involved in developing applications using Angular JS - Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  ? Used filters while coding in Angular JS.  ? Leveraged Angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  ? Worked with Angular JS for creating own HTML elements for building a companied Web site which is an open Source Project.  ? Worked with Bootstrap Components which are written in Angular JS using Angular-UI components.  ? Involved in implementing the complete Application in the inbuilt MVC Architecture with AngularJS.  ? Coded Angular JS controllers and directives for application functionality.  ? Used Angular JS as framework to create a Single Page Applications (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  ? Responsible for design and development of web pages from mock-ups (PSD).  ? Worked on Front end by using JavaScript.  ? Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating AngularJS with Bootstrap which is further integrated with Web Services.  ? Implemented various $scope methods $watch (), $digest () and $apply () in order to implement two way data-binding by using AngularJS.  ? Designed various routing mechanisms using AngularJS.  ? Implemented $http functionality in AngularJS in order to retrieve data from web servers.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, AngularJS, JavaScript.  ? Used advanced level of JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS and CSS layouts.  ? Developed various customized views using JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, XHTML and CSS3.  ? Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements etc.  ? Developed responsive web pages using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  ? Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fixed the bugs.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, SVN, Web logic server 11g. UI Developer I Gate global solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing the front end applications using web technologies like HTML/HTML 5, and CSS/CSS3.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and AngularJS.  ? Involved in making the application Responsive using Bootstrap, and used LESS pre-processor.  ? Developed applications in Angular JS and Bootstrap and deployed into development, Test and production environment successfully.  ? Worked on the MVC architecture of Angular JS in developing the apps, controllers and directives which are totally customized to meet the needs of the application  ? Interacted with java controllers (Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems) using RESTful Services.  ? Developed high-performance web applications using JavaScript, HTML5/XHTML, CSS, jQuery, and Angular.  ? Built a high-performance, reusable code library for UI and backend components.  ? Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  ? Developed Web API using Node.js and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  ? Worked heavily in AWS cloud resources to better achieve a lower cost and higher performance/uptime.  ? Developed form validations utilizing Angular JS messages modules.  ? Implemented re-usable templates with JavaScript handlebars and generating layouts.  ? Developed data visualization tools using Algorithmic Programming, Web Sockets, JSON and AJAX for market sentiment indicators, live streaming price panels, live events count down widget, economic calendars.  ? Used SVN for version control and JIRA for defect tracking.  ? Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Java, SVN, JIRA. Web Developer Optum - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to April 2014 RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Implemented and tested the enterprise application with jQuery.  ? Extensively Implemented user interface designs from UI specifications and product requirements.  ? Involved in finding out the bugs, broken links and missing images etc. and rectifying them.  ? Used HTML, XML, CSS, Java Scripts, jQuery to develop user interactive screens for web-based applications.  ? Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  ? Collaborated with team members in design, analysis, coding, testing, and website review.  ? Coordinated with the business on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get the approval from business on the design changes.  ? Wrote the cross-browser code of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer and Firefox.  ? Written CSS to provide a table-free layout to user interface screen.  ? Used GIT for version control and Quality Center for defect tracking.  ? Designed, developed and updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS, Dreamweaver, and JavaScript.  ? Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  ? Implemented applications in JavaScript, and MYSQL.  ? Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.  ? Designed web site mockups, navigation buttons, etc. using Adobe Photoshop.  ? Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  ? Excellent communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working with cross-functional teams.  ? Worked on cross-browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs of various browsers    Environment: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Apache, GIT, Quality Center, Windows 2000/XP, MYSQL. Education Master of Science in Computer Information Systems in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills SVN, ECLIPSE, TOMCAT, WEB LOGIC, WEB SERVER Additional Information Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Scrum  Databases MySQL  Application/ Web server Apache Tomcat, Web logic server 11g  IDE's Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor, Webstrom, Notepad++  Version Controls: SVN, GITHUB  Operating System Windows 98/NT/2000/2003/XP/7