Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Actualize Schererville, IN, US Work Experience Web Developer Actualize March 2019 to Present Kiddy Corner: Built and deployed application that used Rails back end and Vue.js front end to build an application that keeps track of a user's tasks. A family can add individual member users of a family and keep track of all of the extracurricular activities and chores. Each activity can be added by the user and can be assigned an adult (for example: transportation and a child participating in the activity or the user can assign a chore to a child and the user can mark a task as completed.)  ? Pawnder App: Worked in a team of three to develop a web app that made finding rescue pets for adoption easily available. We used Vue.js and the Petfinder API to access available pet adoptions. The app requires the user to enter their zip code to display results of pet for adoptions in their area. Upon finding a rescue pet that one wished to adopt the user can click the link to route them to the adoption website.  ? Budge-arama App: Worked in a team of three to develop a web app that helps keep track of your monthly budget. The app allows the user to login and keep track of their expenses by category. Used Rails backend and Vue.js frontend.  ? Pair-Programming: Worked in tandem with a partner to solve complex coding challenges. Experience in both driving and navigating.  ? Bootcamp: Completed the intensive, 4-month Actualize bootcamp and learned Ruby, Rails, JavaScript, Vue.js. Learned how to think like a software engineer and gained the ability to tackle any new technology. Teller First Financial Bank October 2018 to April 2019 Maintained customer confidence by keeping information confidential while processing transactions.  ? Contributed to team efforts on meeting quarterly goals by referring clients to banker's based on their needs for credit cards, loans and financial reviews. Web Tech Support Teleperformance September 2017 to June 2018 Troubleshooted login issues for medicare clients.  ? Walked members through how to create an account, reset passwords, download browsers, change browser settings and merge duplicate accounts.  ? Assisted members with navigation on website walking them through step by step.  ? Followed up with higher departments for escalated issues and users on unresolved login issues.  ? Provided excellent customer service skills with 98% positive member feedback. Holiday Inn Express April 2012 to October 2016 Led by example by reaching all reward and satisfaction goals quarterly.  ? Planned tactics to reach goals each quarter and taught strategies to employees at monthly meetings.  ? Taught policies and trained over 20 employees. Education Bachelor of Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Indiana University NorthWest 2017 Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Vue.js Links http://linkedin.com/in/sabrinadimichele http://github.com/sdimichele Additional Information Skills: Ruby, Rails, JavaScript, Vue.js, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, MVC, PostgreSQL, Git, Testing