Web Designer/ Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Designer Oro Valley, AZ Creative and multi-talented Web Designer with over 4 years experience with HTML, CSS and graphic design. Has a passion for resolving user pain points through UI/UX design principles and working collaboratively within a team. Creates website designs to engage target audience, and deliver valuable user experiences across desktop and mobile platforms. Accustomed to working on multiple projects performing in deadline-driven environments.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  HTML5, CSS3, Adobe Creative Cloud, Bootstrap, WordPress CMS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer/ Developer MCFADDEN/GAVENDER ADVERTISING - Tucson, AZ August 2018 to May 2019 • Performed keyword research to rank well in search engines for specific topics, driving traffic to websites and promoting products and/or services to enhance marketing effectiveness.  • Created email campaigns using MailChimp and Campaign Monitor to get the recipients to take action, engage with client's business, and help get more leads and sales.  • Maintaining the appearance of websites by enforcing content standards.  • Designing visual imagery for websites and ensuring that they are in line with branding for clients.  • Communicating design ideas using site maps and wireframes.  • Responsible for posting monthly articles to client's website.  • Performed updates of installed plugins to Wordpress platform.  • Created graphics for client's social media accounts.  • Designed engaging and responsive landing pages. Web Designer SCI Creations - Chandler, AZ August 2016 to April 2018 • Translated concepts into wireframes and mockups that lead to intuitive user experiences.  • Used web design best practices to design solutions, and a deep understanding of mobile-first and responsive design.  • Created individual designs including surveys, reports, icons, and web graphics/user interface mockups.  • Designed and coordinated multiple projects to establish and build upon the credibility of the brand(s).  • Collaborate across teams to manage multiple projects and workflows.  • Created and implemented surveys for direct customer feedback. Web Designer Octavia Digital Media - Tucson, AZ July 2017 to October 2017 • Preserved existing website content for use on brand new websites.  • Design natural user experiences and interactions for all websites.  • Collaboratively work with Developers to communicate UX vision for websites and ensure projects are delivered in alignment with the vision  • Conceive, document, and evangelize design guidelines, best practices, and standards.  • Present designs and coherently articulate what the design elements are meant to communicate  • Knowledge of accessibility issues and Sec. 508 compliance  • Ensured proper brand compliance as well as desired aesthetics, impact, and design effectiveness. Jr. Marketing and Web Developer RP Imaging - Tucson, AZ September 2016 to March 2017 • Created personalized, and automated marketing programs through the entire lifecycle, including browse abandonment, cart recovery, post-purchase, product replenishment, loyalty, and win-back campaigns  • Created content/landing pages for new campaigns that require exceptional design and typographic  • skills  • Translated discussed concepts to web designs and created web graphics to meet this goal.  • Adjusted templates and CSS style sheets  • Worked directly with management on web copy and styling Web Designer (Intern to hire) Arizona Sports and Entertainment Commission - Phoenix, AZ May 2014 to October 2015 • Presented web solutions to Directors of Special Projects and Operations--designs accepted and implemented tasks on schedule  • Migrated 15GB of multimedia content into an improved and responsive Wordpress theme while ensuring dynamic multimedia content promoted both current and upcoming sporting events  • Managed regular content updates and site management Education Bachelor of Applied Science in Internet and Web Development Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ August 2013 to May 2016 Associate of Applied Science in Web Design Pima Community College - Tucson, AZ June 2010 to December 2012 Skills HTML 5, CSS