Trainee Trainee junior web developer Long Beach, CA • Experience in front-end development technologies including HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (cross-browser and cross-platform compatibility, j-query.  • Proficient in design and development of applications using web technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, j-query, XML, JSON.  • Testing websites and identifying bugs and resolving technical problems.  • Good knowledge in SQL server, MySQL and server side language such as JavaScript, PHP and basic understanding of Java.  • Co-developed a secure and visually-appealing website from scratch with the use of HTML, CSS/bootstrap and j-query with interactive features.  • Implement and maintain content management system such as WordPress including configuration, troubleshooting and manage content types.  • Skilled with Adobe Creative Suite (Illustrator, Photoshop, InDesign) and Microsoft Office. Designed logos, online advertisements and social media campaigns to meet client's objective.  • Updating and maintaining changes to webpage and web applications.  • Adhere to guidelines in order to complete the project under certain deadlines and also a quick-learner.  • Attention to detail and ability to work independently, efficiently and effectively in a fast-paced environment. Work Experience Trainee self - Long Beach, CA February 2019 to Present Advanced Training Feb 2019-Present    • Studied concepts of HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON and making websites interactive with the use of JavaScript and j-Query (using selectors, giving effects, calling events/functions, traversing).  • Also completed essential training of Git repository, create and change files, Head pointer and SHA values.  • Learning more about content management systems such as WordPress.  • Acquired knowledge about designing tools (Adobe Photoshop, illustrator) and how to implant them to different marketing campaigns. Entry-level Web developer Puranik Builders February 2015 to July 2015 Responsibilities:    • Maintain websites and applications, including content updates, account administration, debugging, feature enhancements and documentations, testing and regular upgrades.  • Troubleshoot and resolved bugs in applications to ensure optimal development environment.  • Worked on designing tools such as Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Understanding about company guidelines, requirements and then proposing ideas for designing creative projects.  • Designed, developed and tested for unit-testing to check the software is in accordance with established standards. Web Developer Reliance Trends - Mumbai, Maharashtra April 2014 to August 2014 Intern)    Responsibilities:  • Assisted in the development of new website and webpages, operating within brand styles and coding standards.  • Perform code reviews of source code submitted by other team members.  • Studied closely with front-end developers to prepare designs with the use of advance technologies.  • Worked with team to make website work on cross-browser and cross-platform.  • Trouble-shoot and resolved bugs in applications to ensure optimal development environment. Associate Web developer Silk n Art July 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities:    • Work closely with the team to develop the website from scratch with the use of HTML, CSS/Bootstrap and JavaScript (j-Query) and connected to MySQL database using PHP programming.  • Updating changes to webpages as needed.  • Worked on CMS like WordPress to develop the clothing website and making constant updates.  • Participate in discussion with the web designing team to propose the unique ideas to the team and prepare the blueprint for the advertisement designing.  • Recommended techniques that can be used to enhance the visual effects of the advertisement through designing. Education Master's in BUSINESS MANAGEMENT ITM - Long Beach, CA June 2013 to June 2015 Skills Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Html5, Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql, Java, Ms office, Illustrator, Adobe illustrator, Photoshop, Excel, Word, Windows xp Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems: Windows XP/7/8.    Databases: MS SQL Server    Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 4, j-query, JavaScript, PHP.    Programming Languages: JavaScript, SQL, PHP and understanding of JAVA.    Design tools: Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, In-design.    Other tools: MS Office Excel, Word, Power point.