Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Springfield, VA Solution-driven professional excelling in a highly collaborative work environment, finding solutions to challenges and focused on the customer. Proven experience developing consumer-focused web sites using HTML, CSS, jQuery, PHP and JavaScript. Building products for desktop, phone and mobile app users, meeting the highest standards for web design, user experience, best practices, usability and speed. Responding to challenges by designing and developing solutions and building web applications aligned to the customer's services. Translating solutions into code and working across many different APIs, third-  party integrations and databases. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Shield Dental Care July 2017 to October 2018 Burk, VA  • Created a WordPress template using HTML and CSS practices.  • Optimized web assets for speed and performance.  • Utilized programming capabilities in PHP, SQL and JavaScript and other libraries as needed.  • Established web hosting for the site and uploaded the site to the hosting account.  • Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement in a fast-paced environment.  • Implemented Google Campaigns and SEO for various types of websites. Substitute Teacher FCPS - Fairfax, VA February 2016 to June 2017 • Maintained a safe and orderly classroom.  • Led classroom activities for play-based and immersive learning.  • Developed and taught lessons on relevant children's books, poems, movies and themes to promote student interest.  • Developed program to work with students and increase interest in higher learning. Education Certificate George Washington University 2019 Bachelor in Information Technology Engineering Islamic Azad University 2008 Skills VISUAL STUDIO Code, API, FIREBASE, Git hub, HTML, Javascript, PHP, HTML5, Jquery, Wordpress, Front End, CSS, Bootstrap, Ajax, JSON, MySQL, Express, Handelbar, Node.js