.Net Developer .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> .Net Developer Silver Spring, MD Work Experience .Net Developer NITAD Trading & Service PLC - Addis Ababa, ET May 2017 to April 2019 Worked with application development team and developed Web Application - Employee Performance  Management System using C#, ASP.NET 4.0, SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2016, JavaScript, XML and CSS.  • Involved in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle and worked with application developers, and production teams and cross functional units to identify business needs and discuss solution options.  • Created Restful Web APIs on .NET Framework using SQL Server 2016 as back-end along with Entity  Framework Code first approach, AutoMapper and LINQ query to access the database.  • Developed front-end components using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap3, JavaScript and AJAX to retrieve data and access web services.  • Authored a number of queries using LINQ and Lambda Expression to satisfy the requirements of the executives and to give easy access and retrieval of information quickly.  • Created structured logging framework using Serilog sinks to SQL server and file systems.    • Implemented caching, state management and forms authentication using ASP.NET.  • Designed extensive performance test environments and performance counters. Metrics analysis to identify key  performance bottlenecks that improved transaction throughputs and response time.  • Created database objects such as Tables, Views, Store Procedures, Triggers and Functions etc using T-SQL.  Also, Implemented Constraints to satisfy business rules and ensure data quality & integrity in databases.  • Improved the performance of database queries and applications by creating well designed Indexes. Web Developer Ethiopian Public Health Association - Addis Ababa, ET May 2016 to April 2017 • Designed a responsive single Sign-On Authentication Calendar application by using Asp.net MVC for the office of Ethiopian Health and Nutrition Research Institute in Ethiopian Public Health Association.  • Responsibilities include but not limited to creating interactive web applications, an event and policy (content  management), timeline and custom calendar for displaying policy or event on a specific date by using jQuery, C#, MVC, LINQ query, SQL Server 2012, Bootstrap and CSS.  • Created Service Layers using Repository and Unit of Work Patterns to keep UI and Database objects loosely  coupled, and increase testability and maintainability of application.  • Analyzed business, functional and technical requirements to make sure project meets expectations.  • Developed T-SQL Queries, stored procedures, user-defined functions, triggers, constraints, indexes, and views;  fine-tuned database objects for better database performance. .NET Developer Addis Ababa Science & Technology University - Addis Ababa, ET June 2014 to April 2016 Developed web based course management system that can only be accessed through the university's Network.  The system is used by students to download and upload course materials and assignments, check their grades and teachers post announcements, send emails etc. Everything related to teacher-student relationship is done  through this system.  • Demonstrated key skills in creating design documents, web services and database objects utilizing C#, ASP.NET MVC, SQL Server 2012, Visual Studio 2015, XML DOM, JavaScript, Angular JS, AJAX and CSS.  • Used style sheets for achieving uniformity among all aspx pages.  • Performed Unit Testing and System Integration Testing.  • Worked closely with team members to develop concepts and participated in the design and development of the business logic.  • Extensively applied agile scrum methodology throughout the project life time.  • Designed, implemented & maintained Relational Database Models, Databases, Schemas and Tables, and wrote  T-SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Triggers, Constraints, Indexes and Views.  • Optimized application performance by fine-tuning database objects including views, stored procedures and indexes.  • Implemented the integration point with the University's main website. Education B.Sc. in Computer Science in Computer Science Addis Ababa Science and Technology University - Addis Ababa, ET 2015 Skills C# (5 years), MVC (5 years), Web API (4 years), HTML 5 (5 years), CSS3 (5 years), Javascript (5 years), JQuery (5 years), Entity Framework (5 years), LINQ (5 years), Bootstrap (5 years), XML (5 years), MS SQL (5 years), T-Sql (5 years), Angular JS (2 years), TFS (4 years), Git (5 years), JSON (5 years), MVP (5 years), MVVM (5 years), N-Tier Architecture (5 years) Additional Information • 5 years of experience in software design, development and automation of Government/Federal and  Business/commercial systems using Microsoft .Net Framework.  • Hands-on software design and implementation experience with emphasis on modularity, interoperability,  reusability and scalability.  • Experience on RESTFUL services and Design Patterns such as Dependency Injection, MVC, MVP, and MVVM  in developing web applications using N-tier architecture.  • Experience in implementing Single Sign-On Authentication and Session Management.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstract Classes,  Interfaces and Delegates.  • Extensive experience in front-end development using HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Solid experience in creating test strategy, test plan, use case scenario and defect tracking documents.  • Experience in designing and implementing Relational Database Systems using SQL Server, writing Stored  Procedures, T-SQL queries, Triggers, Indexing, Performance Tuning, Physical and Logical Database Design.  • Strong analytical skills coupled with excellent communication skills, with demonstrated ability able to work  independently and as a member of a team.    Technologies:  Programming Languages: C#, Java, C++, C  Microsoft Technologies: ASP.NET, WEB API, MVC, Entity Framework, LINQ, WCF, Work Flow  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap3, XML, JSON, Angular JS  DBMS: MS SQL Server, T-SQL  Development Environments and Tools: Visual Studio Code, Postman, Fiddler, Serilog, TFS, GIT, IIS, ReSharper