UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - American Express Miami, FL • Web Developer with extensive experience working with Front End Technologies.  • Strong web development experience with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 4/3.x, Javascript(ECMAScript6),  jQuery, TypeScript, AJAX, JSON.  • Proficient in UI/UX designing tools like Photoshop and Dreamweaver. Having sound knowledge of  content management systems like WordPress.  • Experience in developing MERN and MEAN (MongoDB, ExpressJS, ReactJS/ AngularJS, and NodeJS)  stack web applications.    • Strong experience working with ReactJS along with Redux framework for developing single page  application with better State Management.  • Used Redux Store, Reducers, Action Creators and React-Redux binding to pass the store into  deeply nested components. Used Axios for consuming RESTful Web Services.  • Experience in creating dynamic Single Page Applications using Angular 2.0/1.x and have good  understanding of Angular 5.0/4.0.  • Hands-on experience working with Angular 2.0 for developing reusable Components, Services,  Pipes, Directives and communicating with the server using HTTP, Observables, Subscribe, and  Subject.  • Proficient in AngularJS 1.x Controllers, Custom Directives, Services and Routing for creating  dynamic Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Expertise in implementing Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap 4.0/3.0 and CSS Media-Queries  and posses good knowledge of CSS pre-processors like LESS and SASS. Used Modernizr for Cross-  Browser issues.  • Built RESTful Web Services using NodeJS, ExpressJS and JAVA Spring Boot to interact with the  database.  • Experience working with databases such as MongoDB and SQL databases. Used Mongoose for  creating schemas for MongoDB.  • Expertise in implementing Closures, Promises, Async and Await, Callbacks, Prototypal inheritance.  • Used modern authorization mechanisms, such as JSON Web Token.  • Experience in Test Driven Development (TDD) using Jest and Enzyme.  • Experience in creating data migration jobs using Talend ETL tool.  • Working experience with front-end development tools such as Babel 6.25 and Webpack 3.0.  • Experience using Version Control System like GitHub/Bitbucket and JIRA/Rally as ticketing and  bug-tracking tool.  • Experience with Agile approach and participated in Sprint meetings.  • Apart from the professional experience, I run a website https://www.howtechnologywork.com  where I write articles on the basic technology. The blog is basically for minors where they can learn  about how the technologies that they use work. Work Experience UI Developer American Express - Sunrise, FL May 2018 to Present Project Title: ACORN (Advanced Collections through Outside Recovery Network)  Description: ACORN platform acts as a bridge between American Express and Outside Credit  Collection Agencies (OAs) for accounts which have surpassed the internal collections threshold.  ACORN platform ingests delinquent account data, applies business defined rules to assess which agency to place an account with, and sends the account to that agency for collection. Once the  account is placed with an outside agency for collection, there is bilateral communication for account and demographics updates.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the single page application using ReactJS and Java as a backend.  • Implemented the routing using react-router to access the various tabs on the application.  • Built the various reusable modules as Account Summary, Contact Details, Placement Summary, Account History, etc. which were later used by various other applications across the organization.  • Used Iguazu-library of Amex which later made public, to make the REST calls, like fetching the account information and updating the address, email, phones, etc.  • Created React components and handled the data binding using State and Props.  • Integrated Redux framework for managing the state inside an application.  • Implemented data flow by using State, Store, Components, Containers, Action Creators and Reducers.  • Maintained State in the store and dispatched the actions using reducers.  • Used Lifecycle hooks to make the fetch calls once the component is mounted.  • Used Redux DevTools to view the props and their values and also to debug the application.  • Implemented the pagintion and filters on the UI for one of the module.  • Built backend APIs using Java. Wrote the SQL queries for account history filter and pagination api.  • Effectively used HTML5, CSS3 features and also Design Languague System(DSL) Amex Library to build  the UI. Used SCSS preprocessor for code resuse.  • Involved in developing page Layouts, Dynamic Menu, Modal Dialogs, and Search features.  • Worked with ECMAScript 6 features. Used Babel for compiling from ES6 to ES5 and Webpack to manage dependencies.  • Created test cases and implemented Unit Testing using Jest and Enzyme in Test Driven Development  (TDD).  • Created data migration jobs using Talend ETL tool.  • Used XL Release for deployment and service-now tool to manage the Incidents for auditing.  • Used Rally as a User Stories tracking tool, GitHub for code repository and Jenkins for CI/CD.  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ReactJS 16, Redux 3.3, JSX, Babel 5.1, Java, Webpack, Oracle DB, Couchbase, Jest, Enzyme, JSON, Rally, Test Driven Development, REST, ES6, GitHub, Agile. UI Developer Piscataway, NJ February 2018 to May 2018 Project Title: Burger Builder  Description: Burger Builder is an application developed on React. The application helps to build a burger by adding ingredients of choice and also provides other options like switching to orders tab will  display the list of orders by fetching the orders from the firebase, displays a modal to view the order  summary and also it is mobile responsive.    Implementation:  • Used React to build the single page application.  • Planned the layout and the component tree like what all components we require to build the application. Planned the state and the properties that should be used in the state.  • Implemented CSS modules to style a particular component by configuring the web pack config file  using npm run eject.  • Created various components like Burger, Logo, Navigation, Order and reused components like Button, Modal, Spinner.  • Created the stateful components such as Orders, Burger Builder, to manage the state of the application and also holds all the options to add ingredients.  • Extensively used ECMAScript 6 features like arrow functions, map, reduce, etc.  • Implemented state for storing the ingredients, price and used props to pass the data into components.  • Implemented modal to display the order summary using CSS.  • Created HOC(Higher Order Components) as a wrapper to the nested components.  • Used lifecycle hooks such as componentWillMount, componentDidMount and shouldComponentUpdate.  • Implemented Firebase and used axios to retrieve/post the data into the firebase database.  • Implemented Routing to navigate between the components and to get multipage feeling in a single  page application.  • Used CSS to style the various components and used CSS media queries to make the application  responsive. Web Developer Magazine3 - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2015 to December 2015 Project Title: Theme Development  Description: Magazine3 is one of the premium Word Press themes development company. The  company develops the themes in various categories like Newspaper, Blogging, Entertainment, Technology, Gaming and more. The aim for the project was to design and develop websites in highly  demandable categories like Newspaper, Technology, Magazine and Entertainment. The goal of the project was to give the customers a ready to use interface to modify the website without even writing a  single line of code. The interface allows the users to create the blog posts by just entering the content in the specified field, change the website logo and with plenty of other options and also to provide the  technical support and to fix the bugs the users are facing with the themes.    Responsibilities:  • Created website layouts/user interface by using standard HTML4/CSS2/WordPress  3.5/JavaScript.  • Designed the themes using Photoshop.  • Converted the PSD's to HTML/CSS using Dreamweaver.  • Created the responsive themes by using CSS media queries.  • Used jQuery to perform AJAX calls and interact with web pages using JSON.  • Created and maintained website documentation.  • Provide technical support to issues related to themes.  • Provided the customers with live technical and sales support.  • Responsible for maintaining, expanding, and scaling our site.  Environment: HTML4, CSS2, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, MySQL. Skills C++, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, REDUX, TYPESCRIPT, JSON, AJAX, OPERA, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, SQL, JAVA, jQuery, ANGULARJS, HTML5, MONGODB, JIRA, FRAMEWORKS, SAFARI, VERSION CONTROL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems Web Technologies  Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Linux, Mac OS. HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON.    Programming Languages JavaScript Frameworks/Libraries  C, C++, Java, JavaScript, TypeScript. NodeJS, ExpressJS, Angular 5.0/4.0/2.0,  AngularJS 1.x, React JS, Redux, Bootstrap  4.0/3.0, jQuery.  Testing Version Control  JEST, Enzyme. GitHub, Bitbucket.  Debugging Tools Visualization Tools  JIRA, Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools AngularFusion Charts.  React Dev Tools, Redux dev Tools.  IDE, Editors Databases  Notepad++, Visual Code Studio, Sublime. MySQL, SQL Server, and MongoDB.  Methodologies Browsers  Agile, Waterfall. Chrome, Firefox, Safari, IE, Opera.