Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Boise, ID My name is Ajdin Masic. I have experience with the .NET Framework including but not limited to ASP.NET MVC, Xamarin Forms, and WPF Apps. I also have experience with PowerShell as well as SQL Server, MySQL, jQuery, JavaScript, and more. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Boise Web Solutions - Boise, ID February 2016 to Present Responsibilities  I created this website as well as the sites under the portfolio site. I manage both and provide updates per clients request.    Accomplishments  Learned my own code, fixed bugs, changed coding style, finding different ways for a solution and refactoring and improving performance of my code. Application Developer COLLEGE OF WESTERN IDAHO - Nampa, ID June 2018 to June 2019 Manage and lead branding guidelines and branding changes for customer facing websites and applications in production, test, and staging environments. Other projects that I have worked on are creating scripts to monitor production and test servers for hanging processes as well as building WPF, C# services, ASP.NET MVC apps to improve current business and user processes.  Key Wins:  ·        Streamlined a process that generates 4.2 million dollars per year. Previously it took weeks-months, now it takes minutes.  ·        Integrated services that communicate between our ERP REST API and LMS REST API. Web Developer COLLEGE OF WESTERN IDAHO - Nampa, ID November 2016 to June 2018 I work with Drupal, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, PHP, CSS3 and HTML5. I also moderate content. Work on designs for different pages and check over the usability of the CWI website. Education Associates in Software Development College of Western Idaho - Boise, ID 2016 to 2018 High School Diploma Meridian Technical Charter High School - Boise, ID 2008 to 2012 Skills HTML (3 years), CSS (3 years), Team Player (10+ years), Time Management Skills (5 years), Javascript (2 years), CSS3 (3 years), Bootstrap (2 years), Responsive Web Design (3 years), C# (2 years), Asp.Net (2 years), Powershell (1 year), Front End, PHP, Jquery, NET, HTML5 Links http://boisewebsolutions.com https://github.com/AjdinMasic-code http://www.eatsleepcoderepeat.co/ Certifications/Licenses Udemy HTML, CSS & Javascript completion A class in Udemy that I completed. It covered hosting websites, code, domain-names and web-hosting. Groups TopCoder January 2016 to Present Web Development-"Meet Up" app January 2016 to Present Share ideas and code with a group in the Boise Main Public Library.