Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Hollywood, FL http://patricksheadesign.com/portfolio Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Self Employed January 2019 to Present Fulfilled contract work for various clients including: C&I Studios, ShopHer Media, The Fruitful Field and Phebus Photography. Web Developer C&I Studios, Inc. - Fort Lauderdale, FL February 2017 to January 2019 Designed, built, and maintain Web sites, using authoring or  scripting languages, content creation tools, management tools, and digital media.    Performed or directed Web site updates.    Wrote, designed, and edited Web page content, and directed others producing content.    Confered with management and development teams to prioritize needs, resolve conflicts, develop content criteria, or choose solutions.    Backed up files from Web sites to local directories for instant recovery in case of problems.    Identified problems uncovered by testing or customer feedback, and corrected problems or referred problems to appropriate personnel for correction.    Evaluated code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards, and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems.    Maintained understanding of current Web technologies or programming practices through continuing education, reading, or participation in professional conferences, workshops, or groups.    Analyzed user needs to determine technical requirements.    Developed or validated test routines and schedules to ensure that test cases mimic external interfaces and address all browser and device types.    Developed databases that support Web applications and Web sites.    Wrote supporting code for Web applications or Web sites.    Communicated with network personnel or Web site hosting agencies to address hardware or software issues affecting Web sites.    Performed Web site tests according to planned schedules, or after any Web site or product revision.    Selected programming languages, design tools, or applications.    Developed and documented style guidelines for Web site content.    Developed Web site maps, application models, image templates, or page templates that meet project goals, user needs, or industry standards.    Established appropriate server directory trees.    Identified or maintained links to and from other Web sites and check links to ensure proper functioning.    Recommended and implemented performance improvements.    Registered Web sites with search engines to increase Web site traffic.    Provided clear, detailed descriptions of Web site specifications, such as product features, activities, software, communication protocols, programming languages, and operating systems software and hardware. Web Developer AdServices, Inc. - Hollywood, FL August 2015 to October 2016 Built responsive HTML5 websites and custom WordPress themes to client and artist specifications.    Maintained and updated existing websites. Education AS in Graphic Design (Honors) Broward College - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2013 to 2015 Graduate in Multimedia Design Atlantic Technical College - Coconut Creek, FL 2011 to 2012 Skills Responsive Design, HTML, Javascript, Wordpress, PHP, CSS3, jQuery, Adobe Creative Suite, Microsoft Office, HTML5, Front End, Bootstrap Links http://patricksheadesign.com/portfolio/ Certifications/Licenses Adobe Certified Associate Present