WEB DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT INTERN <span class="hl">WEB</span> DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT INTERN WEB DESIGN AND DEVELOPER San Francisco Bay Area, CA Motivated Entry Level Software Engineer committed to working in fast-  paced environments while maintaining quality standards. Adept at  learning new concepts and applying acquired knowledge of basic  functions. Work Experience WEB DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT INTERN HEALTH CONNEXIONS, INC August 2016 to July 2017 • Preparing the blog functionality on the website  • Transferring information and formatting it, from the old version  to  • the new website version  • Using WordPress, Divi builder, HTML technologies  • Provide necessary support to design and development team to  • produce front end codes. FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER AFLAC INC - Pasadena, CA September 2015 to May 2016 As a Web Design and Development Intern, Initially, I was working  on web page design and development of using JavaScript, HTML,  CSS, and Bootstrap 3. The project was spread across multiple  modules. I was involved in designing and developing two part of responsive web page. I created multiple designs with Bootstrap 3 and successfully I designed that module.  • In other enhancement, I was also creating UI prototypes before  starting development and recently I was involved in developing  one more web page of website that's recruitment page and two  section of that page such as Pre-registration section and footer  section are assigned to me. In Pre-registration section, there was  one popup box and it contains one confirmation button.  • I also got chance to learn how to redirect from one web page to another web page.  • I also got a chance to work on Database MySQL. During this  project, my task is to install database and create a table as per  requirement and read data through program and display on browser using PHP language.  • I learned new tools and technologies with respect to web design,  configuration management tools (Like Git), responsive design  techniques, and other things pertaining to web design using  HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON,  WordPress, PHP. As of now me and my team have created  responsive web page with Bootstrap 3. RAPID TEST CARD READER January 2010 to June 2010 Designed and constructed a prototype of rapid test card reader  using a photo-sensitive device.  • Investigated the result of the test card which shows whether the test is positive or not and whether the test card was invalid  • Project Team was interviewed by a journalist project work article  was published in DNA Newspaper (one of the India's prominent  Newspaper) Education Master's in Software Engineering International Technological University - San Jose, CA September 2014 to June 2016 Bachelor's in Biomedical L.D. Engineering College - Ahmedabad, Gujarat August 2006 to June 2010 Skills Javascript, MySQL, Git, HTML 5, CSS, jQuery Certifications/Licenses CSS Flexbox Present