Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Northeast Minneapolis website manager with web development and marketing experience Minneapolis, MN Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Excelsior, MN September 2017 to Present Updated WordPress website with HTML to work around expired plugin functionality  ? Upgraded client website from HTTP to HTTPS and installed SSL certificate  ? Updated Salesforce Visualforce lead-generation form page to include additional fields  ? Designed responsive email newsletter templates  ? Provided how-to guidelines to client Web Manager Greenspring Media - Minneapolis, MN July 2017 to Present Develop and maintain WordPress websites for events, publications, products, and services  ? Develop child themes for WordPress websites  ? Supervise platform migration of 13 year old publication website to WordPress  ? Customize WordPress Multisite child themes to match individual organization branding using CSS  ? Optimize landing pages and articles for search and user experience  ? Create SEO best practice documentation for editorial staff  ? Analyze online traffic patterns with Google Analytics and produce monthly reports  ? Implement additional tracking tags and analytics dimensions using Google Tag Manager  ? Email design, campaign management, reporting, and marketing automation in Hubspot  ? Develop novel advertising products in Revive Adserver (formerly OpenX)  ? Prepare sales materials, project statements of work, and process documentation Web and Social Content Manager American University - Washington, DC August 2014 to February 2016 Managed website content on American University Game Lab site  ? Tweeted and maintained a calendar of events Education Master of Art in Game Design American University - Washington, DC June 2016 Bachelor of Science in Biology Santa Clara University - Santa Clara, CA June 2010 Skills Javascript, Wordpress, Front End, PHP, HTML5, HTML, C# Links https://www.raeheitkamp.com