Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Boston, MA Personal, Currently living in Provo, Utah, but looking to move to Boston as soon as I  get a job.    Work, At my current position, I have created several different resources we use for our  clients' websites, and tools to increase development speed within our company. One of  those resources was a custom Wordpress theme from scratch where we can add all  the functionality we need. To increase productivity speed, I created a Wordpress plugin  that manages .less files and dynamically creates .css files when developing, but with  no impact on the user's experience. I frequently hand create custom SVG Animations  based on our clients' logos or major design elements. Personally I created a small .js  plugin to implement a smooth parallax effect when scrolling.    College, I am college graduate. During my time there, I've gained a range of  knowledge in the IT field. I gained experience from a high school CCNA course which  peaked my interest in computers. I took that and learned programming languages  ranging from the basics in C++ to advance skills in PL/SQL.    Volunteering, During my time at BYU-Idaho, I volunteered for two years with Student  Support. During my time there, I gained experience in several different leadership  positions. Since 2014, I've volunteered with Catholic Community Services mentoring  refugee children. Work Experience Web Developer DentalCMO 2014 to Present I develop new and update current  sites for different dental offices. I ensure that all new and current websites are fully responsive for mobile devices. During my time, I eventually created a brand new  Wordpress theme, from the ground up, that we can develop new sites based off of which increased productivity and reduces future development issues. Game Development Present With all of my spare time, I learn as much as I can about Game Development using Unity. I have created small simple games with unique  ideas to learn as much as I can. I hope to transition my career into game development. UI/UX Design Intern - OpenBook Washington Times 2014 to 2014 I design and create new pages for their  travel agency customers. These pages include branding booking tools used by major  websites, Washington Times being one. Along with those pages, I create fully functional  widgets & and pages all currently used by our company and many of our customers. Main Web Developer BYU-I Housing & Student Living Office 2013 to 2014 I lead  the development of several new page designs. Among some of the projects, I created a custom dynamic video player, changed their site from an images based site to a code  based site, and created a new design and layout of their site. Apart from my  responsibilities as the Main Web Developer, I was in the team that created a video for our department.    1063 S. Slate Canyon Dr. • Provo, Utah • 84606 • 518.496.5263 • dan@danieljosephryan.com Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Technology Brigham Young University-Idaho - Rexburg, ID September 2009 to December 2014 Skills Wordpress (5 years), C# (1 year), Javascript (6 years), PHP (5 years), jQuery (6 years), HTML (6 years), HTML5 (5 years), Front End (6 years), Illustrator (5 years), Photoshop (5 years), SVG Animation (3 years), CSS (6 years), CSS3 (5 years) Links http://www.danieljosephryan.com https://github.com/dryane