Sr.UI Developer Sr.UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.UI Developer - Creative Circle, LLC Dallas, TX • A professional with around 8 years experience working in various domains i.e. Health care, Insurance, Retail and Finance in various phases of application development cycle - Analysis, Design, Development and Supporting.  • Good experience working with Bootstrap and CSS 3 media queries to support Responsive Web Page Design.  • Strong experience in Object Oriented Programming and Design Patterns to write better and flexible code.  • Experience with Web 2.0 User Interfaces, W3C Standards and Specifications and user-centered design principles  • Worked with NodeJS, ExpressJS, Grunt, Gulp and Bower for setting up local server, running tasks and managing dependencies.  • Experience in adopting Agile, Waterfall and V-model methodologies during Software Development lifecycle. Expertise in client/server domain: Web-Based, N-Tier Architecture and Database development.  • Experience in leading developers team, and achieved many tasks on Java J2EE projects.  • Strong background in Java/J2EE environments. Well experienced in MVC architecture and Struts framework.  • Advanced development experience with Angular 4 including authoring complex directives, services, controllers, and filters; working with animations, routing, states.  • Experience in Client-side Programming with HTML5, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, JSF, AJAX, mapQuest,SQL ,Git,Redux, JQuery.  • Experience in SOA and developing Web services using SOAP, REST, XML and JAXB.  • Extensive experience in design, development and implementation of Model-View-Controller frame works using Struts and Spring MVC.  • Excellent Java development skills using Core java, JavaScript, JSON, PHP, HTML, JMS, AJAX, EJB, Java/J2EE Design Patterns and UML.  • Experience on working on Java Spring boot by using REST web services.  • Used Angular framework to create Single Page Application which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Worked on creating login authentication using AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Used Angular $http for Get/Post requests to send/fetch data from the server.  • Extensively used open source Angular material to create customized components.  • Expertise in using AngularJS directives, controllers, filters, services, templates, events and injectors.  • Expertise in creation of AngularJS custom directives, filters and services.  • Extensive use of NodeJS, ExpressJS and MongoDB along with MongooseJS to create server side applications.  • Worked on developing web pages from scratch using HTML, CSS including AJAX controls.  • Involved in designing and developing the GUI for user interface with various controls.  • Expertise in migrating projects from AngularJS to angular2/4.  • Expertise in using Karma, Jasmine, Mocha and Chai for unit testing and ProtractorJS for end to end testing.  • Experience in building responsive single web page applications and to render pages on the server side for later loading.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries to build Rich Internet Applications.  • Experience on working with Agile scrum and few other development environments.  • Experienced in NoSQL design and principles.  • Proficient in designing MongoDB dynamic schemas and data modeling concepts.  • Hands on experience in building MEAN stack applications which include technologies like MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS and NodeJS.  • Specialized in development and implementation of application, mobile and web based technology solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.UI Developer Creative Circle, LLC - Dallas, TX August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with the business analysts to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Worked extensively on design and development of UI using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery.  • Extensively Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Sprites, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Elements & Classes, and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Worked closely with back-end developers to find ways to push the limits of existing Web technology in service of creating the best possible user experience.  • Used ReactJS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Developed Developed controllers, view/partials and directives for application using AngularJS.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Wrote code to implement AJAX based application by fetching the response from backend API as part of JSON.  • Worked with web development teams to create new property vanity sites.  • Developed content by writing articles and adding pictures to promote sites using E-commerce.  • Recommended daily rate strategies. Analyzed and monitored success of daily, weekly rate strategies. Prepped and led weekly revenue meetings.  • Used JavaScript ES6 in NodeJS runtime environment to build RESTFUL API's and import data.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Elegantly implemented page designs in standards complaint dynamic XHTML and CSS.  • Used NPM for installing required node modules and other published Angular NPM modules  • Worked extensively with Angular Cli for creating components, services, pipes, directives.  • Extensively used jQuery in implementing various GUI components in application portal.  • Worked on ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Used NodeJs as a proxy to interact with REST services and with database, building real time web API's.  • Worked on ReactJs virtual Dom and React views, rendering reusable components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Developing build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tool in JENKINS to move from one environment to other environments.  • Updated the application with new features of Angular5.  • Working with Ecmascript 6 features for build of JSX.  • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators.  • Designed and developed the application using Angular2 framework along with HTML5, CSS3, typescript, bootstrap, NodeJS, NPM and MongoDB.  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular2 components for more responsive design and less dependency.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular2 and typescript.  • Developed single page applications using Angular2, typescript and web pack.  • Involved in agile software methodologies using Test Driven Development(TDD).  • Used JIRA to keep track of bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity and communication.    Environment: Angular (2/4), AngularCLI, typescript, JavaScript, NodeJS, NPM, ExpressJS, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax, HTML5, SCSS, GIT, TDD, Jasmine, Karma, MongoDB, spring-boot, Mule-soft, Micro services. Sr. UI developer TEKsystems - Little Rock, AR November 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Utilized Angular JS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models).  • Used Angular JS resource and promises for reliable communicate between server and application  • Used observables in Angular JS to work with Asynchronous calls and subscribe them to get the data  • Developed GUI components and Modules in JavaScript.  • Implemented various React components like react-notification, react-menu, react-tabs, react-input,react-layout etc.  • Worked with Word Press and Word Press REST API to add data to the site as we have used headless CMS in the project development process.  • Word Press provided with CRUD operations to perform on the project.  • Worked closely with UX Design team for implementing wireframes, user flows and prototypes to bring up design ideas.  • Created different modules like services, filters for parsing the data to users in accurate way and directives using Angular JS framework.  • Created JavaScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular JS.  • Involved in daily scrum team meetings by updating the work status of the sprint stories.  • Used Angular JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller), Used for installing dependency packages node modules.  • Participated in design sessions, code reviews, bug fixes, organization standards & best practices.  • Interacted with the client for gathering requirements for GUI in the initial phase of the project.  • Used Source Repository Git stash to maintain current and previous builds. Used GIT GUI to check-in and GIT Bash for checkout.  • Extended BOOTSTRAP for UI theme and developed CSS to support Responsive web design and Implemented responsive Layouts for minimizing load time.  • Integrated REST services with Angular services and tested using REST console.  • Used Mongo DB for storing employee details, designing documents and collections.  • Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums A/B testing to discuss the development of the application.  • Worked with the team of architects and back-end developer to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, React JS, jQuery, Bootstrap, Grunt, SCSS (SASS), Responsive Design, Windows OS, REST console, Mongo DB. UI/ WEB Developer Prairie Consulting Services, Inc - Chicago, IL September 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developing web pages by using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript and working knowledge of Backbone JS, Node JS, Bootstrap JS, Angular2, and Angular4  • Used Angular4 as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Actively involved in using Angular4, Typescript, Bootstrap and HTML5 to enable client-side date to meet specific criteria by applying various validation variables.  • Implemented Angular components for UI services to consume REST services using Component based architecture by providing Angular4.  • Enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance and enhanced performance.  • Developed various web pages and components using Angular2 by implementing predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Used JavaScript, CSS and Ajax for Web application development.  • Used Ajax & JSON communication for accessing RESTful web services data payload and to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Adding ES6 features involving ERROR functions, Promises, Exports, Imports and TEMPLATE strings.  • Implemented AngularJS based $http service to make AJAX requests to call the web services/APIs to fetch the data and populate the UI. Utilized Web sockets and NodeJS to provide real time support.  • Used Bootstrap to render grid system and run media queries to make the web portal responsive according to the size of the device.  • Designed and built components and use Templates to create UI application and extend HTML with directives and data binding.  • Worked on merging, committing the branches in the version control GIT and JIRA for issue assignment and development tracking.  • Used Grunt JS and the open source from GitHub to stream build system in front-end web development.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and jQuery.  • Designed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.    Environment:  Angular 2, Node.JS, Express.JS, Typescript, ES6, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, MySQL, SVN, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Grunt JS, GIT, NPM, MongoDB, Apache Tomcat. UI Developer RSM US LLP - Dubuque, IA June 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities: UI Developer Spectrum - Maryland Heights, MO February 2011 to May 2012 Environment: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS, NodeJS, EXT.JS, Responsive Design, React JS, Bootstrap, Dom, XML, Firebug, DHTML, Adobe, Flash, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Oracle, Windows.    Spectrum Maryland Heights, MO Feb 11 - May 12  UI Developer    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using template frameworks for JavaScript including Bootstrap, SQL, AngularJS, MVC, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON.  • Responsible for developing the pages using jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to parse on data on the frontend on the fly.  • Involved in complete Agile SDLC on Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration testing.  • Implemented AngularJS Scopes and AngularJS Expression.  • Used bootstrap to get the best and most efficient results.  • Developed Web Services using REST, WSDL and XML.  • Used complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Worked with Firebug to locate the issues through different browsers.  • Created AngularJS Directives such as Ng-app, Ng-controller, Ng-model, Ng-init, Ng-switch, Ng-required, Ng-checked, and Ng-repeat in my module.  • Implemented AngularJS Routing and Filters.  • Created AngularJS Events such as Ng-change and Ng-click.  • Used grunt task runner for repetitive tasks like compilation, unit testing.  • Worked with the QA team to fix the bugs, test the load, and performance checking.  • Used Jasmine for testing AngularJS cases.  • Used GIT Hub repository for the source code management and code reviewing.  • Designed and implemented the database interaction using triggers and stored procedures.  • Wrote JavaScript functions while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application).  • Worked with designers to constructs conceptual Wireframes and Mockups.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Created graphics including Icons, Images and logos using Adobe Flash Catalyst.  • Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panel to manage the post back of the web page to server, AJAX Script  • Designed Frontend with MVC Frameworks like Backbone.JS, NodeJS and AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS to create server-side applications, making use of its libraries relating to HTTP, file system access, etc.  • Declaring dependencies in the project, specifying Start and Test scripts and updating dependencies to latest version.  • Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features.  • Developed the project in agile methodology and was responsible for SCRUM meetings.  • Worked with the team of architects and back-end Developers to gather customer requirements and enhance the application functionality by adding new features.  • Experienced in using NodeJS as proxy server and have worked on ETL tools.  • Participated in the status meetings and status updating to the management team.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JAVA, GIT, XML, WSDL, XSD, JavaScript, Eclipse, Tomcat, Ajax, jQuery, Safari, Chrome, Apache Tiles, Bootstrap. Education Bachelor's Skills .net (Less than 1 year), Ajax (4 years), Api (2 years), bootstrap (5 years), Css (5 years), frameworks (1 year), front-end (2 years), Git (5 years), Html (5 years), Html5 (5 years), Javascript (5 years), jquery. (5 years), Json. (4 years), Mysql (2 years), Oracle (1 year), Rest (5 years), Sass (3 years), testing (3 years), Word (1 year), Xml (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License