Sr. Consultant/ Web Developer (Sr. Consultant) Sr. Consultant/<span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Sr. Consultant) Sr. Consultant/ Web Developer (Sr. Consultant) - Signature Consulting Group Baltimore, MD • Mr. Cadet has a strong background in software development and web application development. While working at Kiplinger Washington Editors Inc., he assisted the development team in supporting, developing and maintaining the company's website using procedural programming PHP  • He was able to provide the client with timely and highly professional website applications, which as a result enhanced the overall experience of the visitors to the website  • Through his effort, Kiplinger Washington Editors Inc. improved the processing of many pages on the website and added many new web applications and services to their website, which helped their website increase visibility and visitors.  • Mr. Cadet also worked for Viable Communications Inc. where he was able to develop, maintain and test a logistic system, which was used to track the company's newly developed device (VPAD)  • Through the use of Procedural language PHP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript tools, Mr. Cadet also helped as a logistics manager to assist the company in the day to day operations.  • Mr. Cadet has also worked with Drupal 7 and 8, GitHub and WordPress; while working with projects at NETE Solutions, and Signature Consulting Group, which was when Mr. Cadet learned OO PHP. He has over two years of experience with these technologies. Work Experience Sr. Consultant/ Web Developer (Sr. Consultant) Signature Consulting Group January 2019 to Present Support National Institutes of Health (NIH) Websites  • Develop the National Toxicology Program (NTP) Website Using Drupal and the other website technologies available online, such as XML, HTML, PHP, JavaScript, CSS, MySQL, Acquia Dev Desktop, and Fork Git Client  • Develop applications using various PHP frameworks, such as Symphony  • Fork Git Client is used to maintain version control of the code, used to build NIH websites  • Develop and integrate modules for websites created, using Drupal and PHP Drupal/PHP Developer DMS June 2018 to December 2018 Support National Institutes of Health (NIH)  • Develop NIH Websites Using Drupal and the other website technologies available online, such as Drupal 8 only, XML, HTML, PHP, JavaScript, CSS, MySQL, Vagrant  • Develop applications using various PHP frameworks, such as Symphony.  • SVN is used to maintain version control of the code, used to build NIH websites.  • Updated and Created validation on form registrations, updated forms with new functionality, to hide and show divs. Implemented a module, which checks that users can't register twice to a conference on the form registration.  • Implemented a hook on the .theme file, which throws a 404 error HTTP status code, and implemented a custom template, which shows the 404 message.  • Developed a Newsletter Website using paragraph module, this module was used to add rows and columns to the HTML page. The views module was also used to present the data, for the newsletters archive page. Consultant/ Web Developer (Consultant) NET Esolutions Corp. (NETE) June 2015 to August 2017 Support National Institutes of Health (NIH)  • Develop NIH Websites Using Drupal and the other website technologies available online, such as XML, HTML, PHP, JavaScript, CSS, MySQL, Microsoft Server Studio Management Software and Internet Information Service (ISS)  • Develop applications using various PHP frameworks, such as Symphony  • SVN is used to maintain version control of the code, used to build NIH websites  • Develop and integrate modules for website created, using Drupal and PHP  • Provide support for the Drupal team for developed NIH websites  • Integrate API and third-party software to developed websites using PHP, Drupal and JSON  • Integrate Google APIs to NIH websites, such as Google Analytics and debugged them, if problems occur  • Handle health care data, through the websites and applications, which are being developed for the NIH  • Deep knowledge and understanding of many Drupal's modules  • Experience with Drupal's 'hook' system, and able to modify contributed modules remotely from functions written in custom modules Web Developer Kiplinger Washington Inc September 2012 to June 2015 • Formed part of the development team that develops, maintains, redesigns and updates Kiplinger's website using PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, HTML, XML, AJAX and other website technologies. www.kiplinger.com  • Developed a tool that is used to create the table of content of the company's magazine and post it on the website every month. The Magazine Tool CMS was developed using PHP, HTML, MySQL, Apache, JavaScript and XML  • Developed, Update and maintain some of the tools that are available on the website (Mutual Fund Finder and Cars Tool) PHP, MySQL, HTML Apache was used to develop these tools  • Publish the Kiplinger newsletters every Friday and notify customers over email that the letter is ready to be viewed on the website  • Integrated Google Analytics, Facebook login, and Twitter API onto the website to collect valuable data for some of their right side bar widgets  • Developed and maintain the email alert system of the entire website, which is used by thousands of visitors every day. The email alert system was developed using SOAP to integrate an API; PHP, MySQL, JavaScript and HTML were used as well to develop the system  • Developed the Kiplinger app using PHP, MySQL, HTML, and AJAX as well as a software development kit, for Android devices  • Used FTP to manage files and to transfer files from one server to another, securely  • Used FileZilla to transfer file, from the staging server to the production server securely, to prevent hacking of the website Lead Software Technician Healthcare Escort Services Inc January 2010 to February 2011 • Repaired and maintained coupon machines and system for supermarket food stores in the DC, Maryland and Virginia area  • Reloaded and updated the software used by the machines to be able to communicate with the printers  • Installed new operating systems (Windows XPE) on computers that were had damaged operating systems  • Provided technical support and training to new and existing employees to perform the job at a standard level  • Troubleshoot any networking related problems with the computer in order for it to connect to the printers and to the Internet  • Installed all printers, computers, switch and cables on newly opened stores  • De-installed all printers, computers, switch and cables when stores were closing Software Engineer Viable Communications Inc October 2007 to October 2009 • Developed, maintained and tested a logistics management system using PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and a custom content management system (CMS). The management system helped the company maintain track of their newly developed device (PAD)  • Managed the logistics department which was responsible for to keep an inventory of the VPAD and to test and distribute it as well  • Provided technical support and customer service to customers who had purchased the VPAD  • Developed a database (using PostgreSQL and MySQL) that was used to keep customer information, VPAD sells, and the number of VPADs left in inventory  • Personally screened, monitored and approved up to 1,000 VPAD orders made online or by phone, before the VPAD was distributed  • Conceptually created and set forth testing, management, and distribution protocols increasing quality and productivity standards  • Participated in the development and in the maintenance the application used by the VPAD to function properly  • Maintained positive employee and community relations while working at Viable, by participating in company and community activities  • Instrumental in determining and troubleshooting problems found with, SIP/OpenSer, and gained extensive experience in TCP/IP, DNS, FTP, SSH, SSL, RTP, RIP, DHCP and HTTP protocols  • Used the terminal on Linux to run scripts, and to manage files, directories and the database, which was used for their communications system  • Used batch files for file handling, and to sequence the execution of other programs  • Perl was also used to write many shell scripts, that provided needed functionalities to the company's VoIP system Education MBA in Administration University of Maryland University College 2014 M.S. in Bioinformatics University of Maryland University College 2013 Skills Html, Javascript, Perl, Php, Visio, Xml, Mysql, Sql, Ajax, Css, Web design, Real-time, Apache, Linux, Java, jquery, Ms office, Jira, Laboratory, Ebi