User Interface Engineer User Interface Engineer User Interface Engineer - Commscope Austin, TX • UI developer with over 6+ years of professional experience in developing and designing User Interface for web applications.  • Worked on complete Agile Scrum Methodology and User Interface web development in accordance with requirements.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Extensive experience in designing web applications using HTML, HTML 5, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, Type Script, AngularJS, Angular2, Angular 4, React.JS, Redux, CSS, CSS3, DOM and jQuery.  • Expertise in MV* (MVC, MVVM, MVW) frameworks like AngularJS along with Bootstrap  • Experience in third party libraries like NgPrime, Angular Material Design.  • Knowledge in WebPack, Gulp and Npm Scripts.  • Experience in UI Architecture design using Angular2 components. Thorough understanding of core concepts like Ng Modules, Services, Dependency Injection, and decorators.  • Good understanding of Design Patters, Data Structures and Algorithms.  • Expertise knowledge in OOPS implementation, code consistency and code review.  • Unit testing of Angular2 components, services using karma-test- runner and Jasmine.  • Test Reports generation using Karma-Istanbul.  • Experience in Responsive web design development.  • Extensively used AngularJS features, Directives, Filters, 2-way Data Binding, Services, Templates, Routing, MVC and Dependency Injection to build Single-Page-Applications in a clean and maintainable way.  • High level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Proficient with CSS preprocessors including LESS, SASS, Stylus and Foundation, Bootstrap.  • Experience with applying web applications using AJAX, Plug-ins and JSON.  • Experience in working with third party APIs, Web Services.  • Excellent experience in REST and RESTful Web services.  • Experience in developing applications for cross browser compatibility.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting the existing code using debugger tools like, Firebug, Chrome developer toolbar etc., and Able to identify problems in the initial stages and execute quick resolutions.  • Expertise in using source code control systems such as TFS, GIT, JIRA and SVN.  • Excellent communication skills, team player, quick learner and self-motivated. Work Experience User Interface Engineer Commscope - Austin, TX October 2018 to Present Description:Arris International plc is a US-based telecommunications equipment manufacturing company which provides cable operators with data, video and telephony systems for homes and businesses. it has design, engineering, manufacturing, distribution, service and sales office locations worldwide.  Responsibilities:  • Added user interface enhancements and new features to ARRIS home access router/gateway productsOEM'ed by many ISPs.  • Experience in responsive UI design and tools such as Java Script, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Experience in writing Components, Pipes and Services to separate concern and handle different situations by using Angular2/4.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Cursor, Views, Triggers in Microsoft SQL Server environments and experience in data backup, data restore.  • Experience in using WCF service to Develop Web Form application implementing Pagination and Caches to improve response speed of the application.  • Experience in AngularJS with functionalities such as Filters, Factory, Service, Provider, Directive, Promise and defer, etc.  • Experiences in manipulate data between pages by using JQuery, Ajax, Cache, Session, etc.  • Hands on experience in design using Object Oriented Programming Principles like Encapsulation, inheritance, Polymorphism, reusability and SOILD principle.  • Worked with unit testing software and tools including nUnit and Jasmine to improve program efficiency and provide higher code quality.  • Strong developing the Data Access Layer (DAL), Business Logic Layer (BLL) using C#.  • Experience in different design pattern including Singleton, Factory, Repository, etc.  • Experience in developing Single Page Application (SPA) by using different angular version including Angular1.4, Angular2, and Angular4.  • Utilized Services and Factories with dependency injection (DI) in AngularJS.  • Implemented with D3 graphic library (http://d3js.org) and JavaScript/HTML/CSS on the front end and lua on the server/backend.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web page.  • Develop interactive and static visualization using D3.js  • Collaborated with the existing team to integrate visualizations into pages and take part of website O&M activities.  • Extensively used jQuery library for visual effects, event handling, and document manipulation.  • Improved home router user interface by providing several easy to use graphical views of WAN traffic as well as connectivity transitions and channel quality for wireless clients.  • Used Gerrit, Bit bucket for source control and review keep track of individual team member's change and edit.  • Used Chrome and Firefox developer tools for debugging, testing, and verification.  • Developed on Ubuntu Linux for Linux Busybox destination device.  • Deployment activities which includes Configure and build the code from perforce path on Jenkins build platform  • Interaction with the client, upstream/downstream application team  • Used JIRA to track the user stories and defects with Agile technology.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, Angular4, RxJS, D3JS, TypeScript, Agile, Bootstrap, REST API's, Webpack, TSLint, Jasmine, Karma, Istanbul, NPM, Linux, Gerrit, BitBucket, JIRA, and Webstrom. Sr.Software Engineer ( Web Development) Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO December 2017 to July 2018 Description: Charter Communications is one of the largest broadcasting Company which is laying its roots into Spectrum Mobile and for serving their customers, an Customer facing application was implemented which would help them to serve their customers better. This app is developed using component-based structure via ReactJS.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains  additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Developed user interface by using the ReactJS, Flux for SPA development  • Developed our own customized UiLibrary with many different components.  • Made sure all the components are 100% responsive.  • Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and re-usable components.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Worked on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  • Review design documents with stake holders and collect approvals.  • Worked with MVC pattern.  • Refactored the search suggestions system with Redux Saga to reduce the redundant API calls by an estimate of 60%.  • Added Redux to simplified components data and state.  • Implement Bootstrap CSS styles and React components to enhance the interaction  • Used React Flux architecture to create the data  • Worked closely with the Back-End team to display data using the Custom Components,  library Components, and Redux.  • Did publish twice a week.  • Created our own webpack configurations and did modifications accordingly.  • Used Jenkins for builds and Deployments.  • Wrote JEST, Enzyme test cases made sure code Quality is 100%.  • Used ESLint for code quality.  • Implemented react JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozella, IE 7, 8, 9, Safari and FF  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Extensively did code reviews.  • Maintained UiLibrary and made sure all domain teams are using the components and resolving any issues if they face any.  Environment: ReactJS, Redux, HTML5, SAAS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSON responses, GIT, Webstorm, Visual Studio, NodeJS, NPM. Application Developer University of Pennsylvania - Philadelphia, PA May 2017 to December 2017 Description: University of Pennsylvania (Penn or UPenn) is an private Ivy League research university. The University considers itself the fourth-oldest institution of higher education in the United States, as well as the first university in the United States with both undergraduate and graduate studies.  The project deals giving to Penn using angular2. Basically this website allows the donors/alumni's to donate money to university for schools, research and sports etc.    Responsibilities:  • The project operates on Agile project development cycle with Bi-weekly sprints, daily standup, retrospective sessions and sprint planning.  • Involved in requirement gathering, designing, development, UI reviews, and maintenance.  • Designed and developed the portal using framework AngularJS 2.0 along with HTML5, CSS3, and TypeScript.  • The portal is made responsive using CSS3, preprocessors like SASS, Bootstrap, and mediaqueries to support desktop and tablets.  • Written modular, secure, and well-tested front-end code in TypeScript, HTML5 and CSS using the latest web.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 2.  • Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Used REST client / POSTMAN to check the response of various API's, SwaggerUI as a visual documentation for back-end implementation and client-side consumption. Handled various exceptions based on the response.  • Developed Angular service for static selection (refence) data in the Angular SPA's run block.  • Worked on custom URL's to land the user in the application.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as to performs application tasks.  • Worked on customer's cart including the add/remove items, save items in cart.  • Created a buildprocess for different environments like develop, staging and production.  • Demonstrated knowledge of code reviews, unit and regression testing.  • Used Webpack to build TypeScript modules.  • Involved in writing test cases using Jasmine and Karma to ensure 100% code coverage.  • Generated the code coverage report using Istanbul.  • Used GIT for source control and JIRA for tracking purposes.  • Followed the coding standards, it makes for easier modification in future releases.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, AngularJS 2.0, RxJS, TypeScript, Agile, Bootstrap, REST API's, Webpack, TSLint, Jasmine, Karma, Istanbul, NPM, GIT, JIRA, MAC and Webstrom. Web Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA October 2016 to April 2017 Description: Comcast is one of the largest broadcasting Company which is laying its roots into Xfinity Mobile and for serving their customers, an Agent facing application was implemented which would help them to serve their customers better. This app is developed using component-based structure via Angular 2.  Responsibilities:  • Developed a completely new greenfield retail web app for a high profile project at Comcast  Using Angular2.0 and Web pack, Angular CLI, Yeoman.  • Developed single page applications using Angular2.0, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, ng2-Bootstrap.  • Developed complex Angular2 UI nested components for reuse and rapid development Angular2 for each SPA.  • Heavily used HTML5, Bootstrap 3 and CSS3 to make the overall site responsive and less complicated for the end users who use the website heavily on a day-to-day basis.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular2.0 framework.  • Developed customized modal Popup's using ng-bootstrap.  • Implemented error handling and strictly typed coding practices.  • Used RxJs heavily for subscribing to Observable streams containing data.  • Created mock services and data to accelerate front-end development while awaiting RESTFul APIs to be developed.  • Successfully performed the RESTful APIs Integration and developed an API wrapper for reusability.  • Developed reusable style sheet partials using Sass preprocessor.  • Developed custom input elements using components.  • Analyzing and resolving issues found during the testing or pre-production phases of the software delivery lifecycle; coordinating changes with project team leader and cross-work team members.  • Using Jenkins for continuous integration of builds.  • Performed Unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.  • Generated the Istanbul report on NPM test.  • Followed best practices and standards for accessibility and cross-browser compatibility.  • Worked with version control GIT to manage the code repository.  • Used JIRA to track the user stories and defects with Agile technology.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, SASS, Typescript, tsLint, Angular 2, Node JS, UnderscoreJS, WebPack, ng2-Bootstrap, RxJS, VS Code 2015, GIT, Agile, Karma-Jasmine. UI Developer Hilton worldwide - Memphis, TN April 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:    • Designed and developed User Interface using HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.JS/Redux that meets accessibility and web browser standards. Adhere to web standards, usability, and best practices with a  focus on consistency and usability.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Resolved cross-browser layout issues and bugs.  • Implemented Client-side Interface using Redux.  • Built web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, LESS, Bootstrap and React JS.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Using JavaScript, jQuery, Kendo UI for user interactions in pages. Creating a Responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with React/redux and media queries.  • Develop various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Using CSS preprocessor Sass to make CSS more efficient.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Worked on JavaScript and HTML5 Browser Cache mechanism for storing and retrieving data for the website.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5, CSS3 & Bootstrap.  • Added live reload configuration using Browserify and Watchify programmatically with libraries loaded from NPM and Bower.  • Providing consultation and development support services for engaging in a commercial grade search engine including Elastic search, HTML, CSS, Responsive Web Design, Test Driven Development (TDD), Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery.  • Followed Jira fortracking processes and streamlining Agile planning.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.    Environment: HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Jira, Sass, LESS, NPM, React JS, Redux, Agile Methodologies, Windows. Web Developer GVK Bio - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:    • Developed front-end application using HTML, CSSJavaScript, jQuery, techniques, with a focus on object-oriented design.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web page.  • Extensively used jQuery library for visual effects, event handling, and document manipulation.  • Developed content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Involved in Analysis and Design Phase.  • Involved in writing JSPs and integrating the UI with the backend.  • Developed database stored procedures, functions, triggers and sequences.  • Developed the server side using java and front end with java scripting, XML, HTML.  • Developed database stored procedures, functions, triggers and sequences.  • Developed the code and tested the tool.  • Performed form validations using Java script.  • Co-ordinated for Testing, unit testing using J unit, preparation of Test case design document & Review of test plans.  Environment: HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Usability Testing, Agile, Eclipse. Education MSCS Northwestren Polytechnic University - Fremont, CA August 2015 Skills JAVASCRIPT (5 years), AJAX (4 years), jQuery (4 years), BOOTSTRAP (3 years), HTML5 (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mounika-nagireddy-a79a04117 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, TypeScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, AngularJS and Angular2, ReactJS  Framework ReactJS, Angular2, AngularJS, Bootstrap  IDE & Tools Eclipse, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Intellij IDEA, Webstorm, Atom  Application Server Tomcat, NodeJS, Apache, nginx  Languages JavaScript, TypeScript, ECMAscript (ES6)  Data Base SQL, MY SQL, Oracle PL/SQL  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, OSX