Sales Associate Sales Associate Sales Associate - Micro Center Inc Malden, MA To obtain an internship or entry level position in the technology field and to gain more experience. Work Experience Sales Associate Micro Center Inc - Cambridge, MA July 2015 to Present Assist customers in finding the right product or their technological needs  ? Process and organise new arrivals of electronics on the store floor Web Developer Intern YumYum Pix - Boston, MA June 2015 to November 2015 Create and modify web pages including front-end and back-end  ? Attend weekly meetings in order to share ideas and progress.  ? Collaborate with a developmental team using Slack and Asana technologies. Sales Associate J. Crew Inc - Somerville, MA August 2014 to August 2015 Handled many forms of transactions such as credit/debit, cash, checks, and gift cards  ? Assist customers in finding the right style of clothing  ? Process and organize new arrivals of clothes in store's back stock Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Massachusetts - Boston, MA May 2017 Associate's in Computer Science Massachusetts Bay Community College - Wellesley Hills, MA May 2013 Links http://linkedin.com/in/keithlxs Additional Information SKILLS' HIGHLIGHTS:  ? Programmed and debugged in Java, C/C++, HTML, CSS, Visual Basic for the creation of software  ? Skillful at analysing and debugging parts of a code  ? Used GitHub and Bitbucket for collaborating with other team members on a project  ? Knowledgeable at using design tools and IDEs like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual  Studio, Sublime Text, Violet UML  ? Advanced user of operating systems such as Windows 7/8/10, Linux(Ubuntu, Mint)  ? Experienced at using Android SDK, LWJGL, Arduino, Lego Mindstorm NXT, Raspberry Pi  ? Motivated, well organized, great communicator, and work well with other team members  ? Fluent in French    PROJECTS:  E.M.A.R 1.0 (Electronic Medical Administration Record)  ? Developed a medical application requested by the Nursing Department at MassBay  ? Created design schematics for the creation of the software under UML guidelines  ? Collaborated with a team of fellow classmates by using Github as version control  ? Debugged and tested the E.M.A.R software before delivering the complete version