UI DEVELOPER UI <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> UI DEVELOPER - T-Mobile Atlanta, GA • Over 6+ years of experience in Web Development, developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML/5, XHTML, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, DOM, XML, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Angular.js 2.0/4.0 with experience in the software development life cycle.  • Worked extensively on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, Pseudo classes and Pseudo elements.  • Extensively did client-side validations using JavaScript and developed the required Servlets.  • Experience in implementing UX user-flows, wireframes and user testing plan.  • Experience in UI Architecture design using Angular 2 components.  • Unit testing of Angular 2 components, services using karma-test- runner and Jasmine.  • Command on developing responsive SPA using Bootstrap and MVC frameworks like AngularJS.  • Experience in working with RESTful Web-Services and implementing RESTful API's.  • Developed custom Node JS proxy used to send requests to client's API's, handling authentication and custom headers.  • Implemented Marionette which is a composite application library for BACKBONEJS to simplify the large-scale JavaScript applications.  • Expertise in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Experience in building application with React JS, Redux, Require JS, in MVC architecture.  • Expertise in React.JS framework and integrate them to Node.js server-side code  • Expertise in using XML/JSON and AJAX to link with back-end applications.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model and DOM Functions.  • Experienced with Bower and NPM for package management, installation, and maintenance, and task runners including Grunt and Gulp.  • Participation in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) and preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  • Responsible for deployments via NODEJS environments to production environment.  • Experience in the user interface with Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) using with web authoring tools and IDEs for development like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Web Storm, Brackets, Sublime, VS Code, Atom and Net Beans.  • Developed securing the application using form-based authentication using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  • Experience in developing style components with LESS & SASS.  • Extensively used source code control systems such as TFS, GIT, Gitlab, JIRA and SVN.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting the existing code using debugger tools like, Firebug, Chrome developer toolbar etc., and able to identify problems in the initial stages and execute quick resolutions. Work Experience UI DEVELOPER T-Mobile - Atlanta, GA December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented an application from scratch using Angular 2.0, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript and Bootstrap.  • Used JQuery plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Involved in developing HTML5 and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation within the forms.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2.0, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular4 framework.  • Research existing web applications and customers, then analyze and create efficient UX solutions for Web Application.  • Maintained and developed responsive web properties and content channels using CSS, JavaScript and HTML. The main goal was to create solutions that are device-agnostic which will allow page display to function perfectly on every resolution spectrum.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS Framework and injected generic services using Angular 2.0.  • Design all UI elements, wireframes, and comps with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign.  • Used the concept of promises to improve the RESTful APIs functionality.  • Developed custom Node JS proxy used to send requests to client's API's, handling authentication and custom headers.  • Used NPM for package management, installation, and maintenance.  • Done unit tests in TDD format using Angular 2.0 testing library.  • Extensively used JavaScript and jQuery for functionality.  • Developed and utilized UI reusable components through Angular 2.0.  • Created Angular 2/4 controllers, factories, filters, Routers, and services.  • Used Angular 2/4 Dependency Injection (DI) to inject Angular Services and Custom Services, as well as built custom Directives to provide reusable component.  • Used pre-processor LESS to generate and manage CSS.  • Work in Scrum Agile using Gitlab, developed and adjusted user stories appropriately.  • Experience in assessments workflow in design patterns in cross browser functionality.  • Apache Cordova extends the features of HTML and JavaScript to work with the device.  • Created mockups and wireframes for a new website.  • Coordinating with clients and product owners for UX wireframe mockup.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Developed Mobile web application using native JavaScript and Angular JS by using existing hybrid Mobile application code base.  • Debug the application using Chrome Developer tools to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Designed and developed Mobile Applications using JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS.  • Implemented styling Presentation layer using Bootstrap, Angular JS, Wire-framing, and HTML5.  • Developed cross-browser compatible website using MySQL and jQuery.  • Developed all the UI pages using, HTML, DOM, JSON, and AJAX.    Environment:HTML/HTML5,CSS/CSS3,JavaScript,JQuery,Gitlab,Angular2.0,Angular4.0,Typescript, SolidWorks, LESS, Phone gap, Jasmine, Bootstrap, Chrome Developer Tools Node JS, AJAX, Atom, GIT. Web/Backbone Developer Ericsson - Santa Clara, CA June 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the layout of the application using HTML4.0/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and Bootstrap 3.3.4.  • Used Angular 2/4 and Node.JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller).  • Developed backend web services using Node JS and stored dependencies using NPM.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Angular 2/4, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Created Filters, Directives, Controllers and Services by using Angular2/4.  • Created Angular 2/4 controllers, factories, filters, Routers, and services.  • Adopted JavaScript and jQuery 1.1.0 to manipulate DOM, basic logic and event handlers.  • Involved in implementation of RESTFUL web service APIs using Node.js.  • Debugged and logged using Chrome developer tools, configured test environment using Karma and wrote unit test using Jasmine.  • Adopted Git for version controlling and JIRA for project tracking.  • Used Web pack & NPM, Bower for package management.  • Performed CRUD operations in the Mongo dB database.  • Developed the Frontend by using React Js and JavaScript.  • Expertise in React JS framework and integrate them to Node.js server-side code.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  • Used redux async actions to make the app fully asynchronous.  • Created flux stores to migrate an existing flux app to redux.  • Used Redux to maintain state of react application. Used Redux-Thunk and Redux-Saga for asynchronous calls in the different applications  • Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Design, develop and test HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.JS, Redux that meets accessibility of web browser.  • Designed and developed React Js component  • Used agile methodology for the software development life cycle.  • Used Gulp as the build task runner to build and package the application.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and worked on different browsers like Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Participating the Sprint Planning and User Story Grooming sessions and suggesting can-do and cannot-do in each Sprint.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, React js, Redux, JIRA, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular 2/4, MongoDB, Git, Karma, Jasmine. Web Developer JPMC - Columbus, OH August 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked with HTML5, XML, JSON, JavaScript, and Angular JS for developing user interface.  • Developing the code for Enhancement CR using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Used advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and CSS layouts.  • Implemented Backbone.js and Angular.js to create a dynamically changing website.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS Framework.  • Developed Web Application to replace the existing and legacy Website using AngularJS Framework.  • Followed MVC Architecture using AngularJS Framework.  • Involved in building a high efficiency Dynamic Single and Multiple Page Web Application using Angular JS, Node Js, HTML, HTML5, Java Script, Bootstrap, JQuery and CSS3.  • Ability to rapidly prototype interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs.  • Understanding of the differences and bugs in various browsers and browser versions.  • Understanding of application development life cycle methodologies.  • Knowledge of human factors and usability, best practices for interface design.  • Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams.  • Excellent problem-solving skills and the ability to work independently.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web-based customer application.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Tested the application using Grunt JS.  • Experienced in working with Babel, Gulp, NPM, NPM scripts, and Web pack in application build and deployment processes.  • Setup production dependencies for application are Redux JS, Web pack, Grunt, Babel, Polyfilla.  • Worked with build tools like NPM, Bower, and Grunt.  • Experienced in working with Babel, Gulp, NPM, NPM scripts, and Web pack in application build and deployment processes.  • Integrated with backend code (Java) for highly interactive AJAX based applications.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client-side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Used GIT for version control.  Environment:, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Backbone.js, React.js, jQuery, Node.JS AJAX, JSON, Sublime Text, Gulp,grunt,NPM Web Developer ICICI BANK LTD - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, design and implementation front end part of the widget-based application.  • Used HTML5 for audio and video playback.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for presentation, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Wrote JavaScript for validation and populating the various fields for the client-side validation.  • Used backbone.js as Model, Widgets as Controller and jQuery template as View.  • Used Ajax, JSON with jQuery for request data and response processing.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking.  • Tested in Jasmine for the Angular controllers and directives  • Used JSON format to serialize and transmit structured data over network connection.  • Wrote Jasmine test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many JavaScript's to do client-side validations.  • Worked on Unit test by Test-Driven Development (TDD), writing test cases using Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, Chai for E2E testing.  • Good knowledge of using JavaScript testing frameworks Jasmine and Karma  • Involved in daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress. Worked in Onsite - Offshore model.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Backbone JS, JIRA, Jasmine and Karma. Jr Developer Augusta Software Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, design and implementation of front-end part widget-based application.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Created a robust and  • User friendly CALL CENTER APPLICATION based on client requirements.  • Wrote a combination of jQuery plugins, as well as completely custom JavaScript to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, XML JavaScript, GIT. Education Master's Skills Javascript, Bootstrap, Typescript, Json, Vs code, Ajax, Opera, Tomcat, Ui web, Web server, Html5, Eclipse, jquery, Ui, Backbone, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql