UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Dealer Socket Dallas, TX ? Over 8+ years of extensive experience building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3 JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2/4/5, React JS, Node JS.  ? Worked with Responsive web design supporting multiple devices (Desktop, Mobile, Tablets) using Bootstrap and CSS3 Media Queries.  ? Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  ? Expertise in designing Event Handling Models such as Listener and Dispatcher in OO JavaScript.  ? Experience in creating Jasminefor running test cases, karma for test runner configuration.  ? Experienced in building cross browser compatibility applications using HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  ? Experienced in working with Redux architecture.  ? Working with ECMA Script 6 features. Used Babel, web pack with es2015, react JSX presets.  ? Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  ? Experienced in working with AngularJS MVC, MVVM (Data Binding), factory, service, $http, $q, security.  ? Working with Type Script features. Used Babel, web pack with babel presets.  ? Developed single page applications, components, services, pipes, integrations from RESTful APIs and injections in  Angular2.0.  ? Developed the administrative UI using AngularJS and Kendo UI.  ? Designed Frontend with in object-orientedJavaScript Framework.  ? Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript.  ? Worked with MEAN stack applications  ? Experienced in using npm module bower for managing UI dependency.  ? Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, JSONP and XML.  ? Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT, Version One, JIRA, and Jenkins.  ? Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile Methodology.  ? Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar.  ? Familiar with Cross Browser Testing and Debugging.  ? Involved in the Software Life Cycle phases like AGILE and estimating the timelines for projects.  ? Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with strong attention to detail.  ? Demonstrated ability to complete projects in deadline-oriented environments. Work Experience UI Developer Dealer Socket - Irving, TX November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Involved in developing Responsive Web pages that are interactive using object-oriented JavaScript, ReactJS, Bootstrap, NodeJS and AJAX.  • Used AJAX & JSON communication for accessing RESTful web services data payload.  • Constructed powerful and modern Frontend Architecture, involving ReactJS, Redux, and ES6.  • Developed user interface by using the ReactJS, Flux, Webpack, Grunt and Redux for Single Page Application development.  • Used React -Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, JavaScript and React JS.  • Develop various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Responsible to create React JS workflows such as Flux and Redux.  • Webpack plugin to perform various tasks that build our application.  • Worked on AJAX and JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Built REST Web services by building Node.js server in the back-end to handle request Ajax calls.  • Involved in issue tracking and Agile project management using JIRA while also Implemented Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Used Mocha, Chai unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code and Jest for the client-side unit testing.  • Gathered data from API/ web services via AJAX-JSON calls and updating the DOM within the result sets.  • Implemented AJAX to speed up web application.  • Worked with Docker containers, running/managing containers, container snapshots and managing images.  • Run asynchronous tests to identify errors and exceptions using Mocha JS.  • Used Jasmine to run unit test on Angular controllers, modules and JavaScript files on the client side.  Environment: CSS3, HTML5, XML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, React JS, React -Router, Node JS, Redux, Agile, Webpack, Restful, jQuery, SASS, JSON, AJAX, SQL, JIRA, Grunt, Gulp, ES6, Jest, Chai, Mocha, web services UI Developer J.B HUNT Transportation - Lowell, AR November 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing the UI pages usingAngular 4/5, HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, PrimeNg ,ngx-Bootstrap,Angular -Material, Ajax, Leaflet.js, Json  • Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Used various Angular custom directives and developed reusable components and templates that can be re-used at various places in the application.  • Experience in working with the advanced JavaScript such as ECMAScript 6 (ES6).  • Worked with JASMINE in testing and performed Unit testing and execution testing utilizing JUNIT.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking. Git is used as a version control tool and Jenkins is used for continuous integration of builds.  • Experience with the features of Angular 4 such as directives, modules and routing.  • Worked with TypeScript decorators, interfaces, type restrictions and es6 features  • Involved in migrating the shipper 360 application from Ext.js to Angular 4  • Highly used Angular 4 router to build single page application for navigate through the different status and multiple modals  • Implemented test cases and performed unit testing using Karma-test-runner and Jasmine.  • Collaborated with team members using TFS version control with Agile/Scrum environment.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 4  • Implemented the dashboard view in the Angular application using the Angular Material Grid component.  • Used the RxJS library to manage concurrency when fetching data through HTTP calls using Observables  • Used MEAN (Mongo DB, Express, Angular, Node) Stack.  • Developed REST API using Express Router middleware-based API's with MongoDB integration.  • involved in migrating application from Angular 4 to Angular 5  • Extensively worked with making calls to WEB APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation  • Experience with data mapping and GIS technology using Leaflet.js  • Worked with UX Designers to mockup visualizations    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JSP, Typescript, Java, Angular 4/5, Angular Materials, Prime Ng, ngx-bootstrap, Leaflet js, TFS, GIT,Node.js UI Developer FINRA - Rockville, MD January 2017 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Angular 2, JSP, AJAX and JSON.  ? Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive web design and CSS3 media queries.  ? Worked with SASS for CSS preprocessor.  ? Working with TypeScript features. Used Babel, web pack with babel presets.  ? Developed single page applications, components, services, pipes, integrations from RESTful APIs and injections in Angular 2.0.  ? Fixed High priority bugs relating to Angular 1.x  ? Worked on Angular JS, factory, services, MVC, filters, Single page applications (SPA's), custom directives, and components in Angular 1.x.  ? Used SASS preprocessor.  ? Used JavaScript, jQuery, JSP for user interactions in pages.  ? Worked on JSP and legacy Java applications to fix bugs.  ? Worked on Selenium with Java for Automated Testing of AngularJS application.  ? Worked with MEAN stack for developing applications.  ? Worked with modules like MongoDB for database persistence using Node.  ? Worked with Express.js for development of RESTful web services and middleware configurations.  ? Worked with Passport and JWT for authentication security configurations using Node.js  ? Worked with Webpack, Grunt, Gulp for task runner configurations for minification, watch, jshint, jscs, css autoprefixer, sass compilation, bundling and test runner configurations and make it available as a command.  ? Worked with unit testing of JavaScript applications using Karma, Jasmine, Api mocker, ngMocke2e, snion.  ? Worked on creating Test Suites  ? Creating Mock Objects for test cases.  ? Pulling test code coverage reports. Identify and fix the test suits with less than 85% in code coverage.  ? Helping identify bugs and fixing bugs  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JSP, JavaScript, Java, AngularJS, Angular 2, Responsive Design, Node JS, Express, Bootstrap, Oracle, Selenium. UI Developer Centric Consulting - Chicago, IL November 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developed a proof of concept with AngularJS 2.0  ? Working with TypeScript features. Used Babel, web pack with babel presets.  ? Developed single page applications, components, directives, integrations from RESTful APIs and injections in Angular 2.0.  ? Used AngularJS andNodejs to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller)  ? Using AngularJS, we created custom directives for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads, etc.)  ? Made extensive use of promises in AngularJS for application control flow.  ? Extensively worked on applications using JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  ? Used MEAN (Mongo DB, Express, Angular, Node) Stack.  ? Developed REST API for test server for Express Router middleware-based API's with MongoDB integration.  ? Designed and added custom UI Themes to the web page using SASS CSS pre-processor instead of inline- styles or Less.  ? Used React for development of components.  ? Used Redux for state management of the application.  ? Used React Router for Single Page Applications.  ? Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  ? Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  ? Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  ? Used GRUNT for setup a proxy for you redirecting XHR requests on your own system within the grunt connect server to another system  ? Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5 semantics new tags like audio, video, canvas) CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  ? Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  ? Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive web design and CSS3 media queries.  ? Worked with making calls to REST APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  ? Used all the advanced Photoshop features to create appealing visual web interfaces.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS, D3.js, React JS, Responsive Design, Bootstrap, Dom, XML, Firebug, DHTML, Adobe, Oracle, Windows, NPM, PostgreSQL UI Developer Quicken Loans - Detroit, MI May 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in a Project "DRIVE 2.0" which is an internal website. It's a tool which allows Team Members to catalog their work and team leaders to view, comment, leave feedback and assess the performance of Team Members developed using MVC 4.  ? Designed the user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular.js framework.  ? Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Developed responsive web sites for Phone, Tablets, and Desktops using Bootstrap and CSS3 Media Queries.  ? Developed AngularJS Reusable Custom Directives using scope isolation techniques.  ? Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON, and AngularJS.  ? Used Bootstrap and AngularJS in effective web design.  ? Used React JS, React Router for developing single page applications. Used flux architecture.  ? Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  ? Used Grunt for Builds for lint(check syntax errors), minification of HTML, CSS and JavaScript, Live reload, watch, test runner, server configuration and sass compiler sub tasks.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Angular.JS, Jasmine, Karma, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, RESTful API Services, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Git, JSON.  ? Used Karma and Jasmine for testing and structure our project.  ? Used SASS as the css preprocessor.  ? Used SASSvariables, mixins, nesting and import.  ? Implemented User Interface and integrated with backend code, Node.JS as server-side technology.  ? Used Node.js Bower npm module for UI Dependency management.Worked on bower.json andbower.rc files  ? Used MEAN (Mongo DB, Express, Angular, Node) Stack.  ? Developed REST API for test server for Express Router middleware-based API's with MongoDB integration.  ? Ensured site design integrity and quality control consistency throughout the project's lifecycle.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX JSON, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Responsive design, Grunt, Bower, Node.js, Visual Studio 2013 UI Developer Independence Blue Cross - Philadelphia, PA January 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX, JSON, Kendo UI, Bootstrap  ? Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  ? Developed Proof of concept on React.  ? Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive design and media queries.  ? Used JQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  ? Rapid prototyping of design concepts.  ? Experience with JQuery, Require.js  ? Experience in resolving cross browser compatibility issues (IE 7 & 8, chrome, Firefox and Safari)  ? Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  ? Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  ? Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  ? Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  ? Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  ? Using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  ? Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  ? Expertise in using Twitter Bootstrap Framework responsive design.  ? Experience working with Google Analytics and Tracking API  ? Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  ? Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules.  ? Responsible to make sure that look and feel of the UI designs works same in different versions of different browsers (IE 7/8, Firefox, Google chrome, Safari, Opera).  ? Used agile methodology for the software development.  ? Worked on Kendo UI frame work  ? Experience working with web-based data visualization techniques like D3.js  ? Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  ? Responsible for authoring of website functionality with JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  ? Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  ? Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  ? Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces.  ? Experience working on and using Jira.  Environment: HTML 5, JavaScript, Require.js, .Net, AJAX, CSS3, D3.js, JSON, JQuery, XML, Bootstrap3, Visual studio, SQL Server 2012, Web Developer Siemens - Malvern, PA April 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities  ? Developed the front-end featuring rich web interface implemented using JavaScript libraries like jQuery and used Mustache templating system.  ? Developed huge multi-advertisement layout engine that was cross browser compatible.  ? Used the Mozilla, Firefox extension, Firebug, to view and debug HTML, DOM and JavaScript.  ? Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, and CSS optimization.  ? Redesigned and implemented complete web application to meet web and industry standards.  ? Designed web pages using with HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and jQuerybased on the W3C standard.  ? Developed and improved application using MVC Framework.  ? Developed CSS page layouts, styles and table less coding for efficient design.  ? Proficiency in implementing the design to meet web standards (W3C), SEO and worked on various browsers for cross-browser implementation.  ? Used CSS selectors for condition based styling and pseudo-classes to add some special effects to selectors  ? Used AngularJS and Nodejs to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller)  ? Used AngularJS to build a single-page application.  ? Using AngularJS, we created custom directives for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads, etc.)  ? Made extensive use of promises in AngularJS for application control flow.  ? Implemented jQuery based accordion styles and handled complete jQuery in showing Rich Internet Application (RIA).  ? Used JSON to fetch the data from Web Services.  ? Used to interact with Business Analyst and Business owner to give up the best designing features for the product users.  ? Worked with success driven models, and participated in beneficial revenue projects, using E-commerce methods.  ? Provide the Secured digital certificates and maintained the performance through secured socket layer.  ? Translated market and product requirements into UI designs in the form of conceptual models, wire frames and prototypes.  Environment: HTML5, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, SVN, Adobe Flash CS3, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3 and Web Services, Mustache, REST Services. Web Developer Comergent - Redwood City, CA February 2011 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery, JSP/JSON, XML and XSLT.  ? Worked on various mobile frameworks like jQuery mobile.  ? Responsible for designing mobile applications.  ? Worked with Backbone for developing single page applications  ? Worked with require.js for implementing AMD.  ? Worked with handlebar.js and mustache.js as template engine with Backbone.js.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML (HTML, CSS and JavaScript).  ? Responsible for developing various static and dynamic modules which are displayed in different web pages according to the specifications.  ? Developed and designed XML Schemas to transport and store data. XML was used to simplify data and allow for Platform Changes, as well as making data more available across the applications distributed platforms.  ? Extensively used XSLT to transform XML documents to HTML.  ? Wrote custom jQuery plugins and developed JavaScript functions to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  ? Extensively used jQuery plugins like jcarousellite and mousewheel for creating scrollable menus.  ? Worked on jQuery Lightbox for creating image and video galleries.  ? Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using JAVASCRIPT.  ? Embedded the flash content into the web pages using SWF Object.  ? Created Ajax calls to exchange (request / responses) information with database.  ? Developed social network services for user interaction using Ajax, JavaScript, CSS and DHTML.  ? Used Subversion (SVN) as a repository tool and as a version control.  Environment: HTML, XHTML, XML, XSLT, XPATH, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, JSON, AJAX, DOM, Aptana Studio 2.0, Eclipse, Sub Version. UI Developer ING Financial Services - IN June 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Developed user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XHTML, jQuery, AJAX, JSON.  ? Involved in developing all stages of Software Development Life Cycle which includes Analysis, System study and designing of the project.  ? Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS. And developed front-end screens with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP's. Extensively did client-side validations using JavaScript and developed the required Servlets.  ? Being a developer, organized with onsite team and client in understanding the business process and requirement understanding.  ? Developed different data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client-side scripting using JavaScript.  ? Worked on storing the procedures, triggers, functions and database tables in Oracle database.  ? Performed different test cases and reviewed on quality related work.  ? Participated in meetings for enhancing the features for the portal.  ? Deployed the application using J Boss Application Server  ? Created application using NetBean IDE.  ? Participated in Code review and Quality Assurance.  ? Used JDBC, application server provided transaction API for accessing data from the Oracle the using standard statements.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, DOM, DHTML, Ajax, JBoss, Oracle database, SQL, NetBean, Windows XP/07 and MS Office. Education Bachelor's in engineering in engineering JNTU Master's in computer science in computer science University of Central Missouri Skills C++, Html, Javascript, Json, Svn, Visio, Xml, Xslt, Ajax, Css, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Tomcat, Web logic, Web server, Websphere, Eclipse, Java, jquery, Angularjs Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Backbone JS, AngularJS, Node JS, React JS, Leaflet JS  Servers HTTP Web server, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, Web logic  Database SQL Server, ORACLE, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Development Tools Sublime Text, Notepad++, Eclipse, Netbeans, Dreamweaver  UML Rational rose, Ms Visio  Version Control ClearCase, SVN, GitHub  Programming Languages C, C++, VB and Java  Operating system Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP (Prof),Win 7