Front End Web Developer Front End <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer North Hollywood, CA To obtain a creative and challenging position that utilizes current knowledge of web development and design. I have a positive outlook and am always willing to learn new traits. I work well both independently and as part of a team. I am always pushing myself to be the  best at what I do and tend to bounce ideas with the team to get feedback. Work Experience Front End Web Developer Innovative Skincare - Burbank, CA July 2015 to June 2018 • Created dynamic website, maintained the shopping cart, designed promotional banners.  • Developed and implemented email marketing campaigns for various clients. Junior Web Developer Dinair Airbrush Makeup, Inc - North Hollywood, CA June 2012 to April 2015 Airbrushmakeup.com  • Planned, implemented and oversaw website creative content and overall eCommerce functionality to improve customer's experience through e-blasts, abandoned cart emails, web promotions, affiliate and loyalty programs.  • Worked with lead developer to implement dynamic templates.  • Verified content and formatting in various browsers and platforms for quality assurance.  • Resolved problems and optimizes performance of complex web based systems and identifies appropriate technology to meet business needs while maintaining integration with existing systems and technologies.  • Collaborated with Graphic Designers to develop web solutions, optimized for download efficiency.  • Created new web pages utilizing content provided by online marketing to improve web site traffic and SEO optimization.  • Managed the e-commerce product inventory and created weekly promotions.  • Evaluated code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems.  • Maintained understanding of current web technologies or programming practices through continuing education, reading, or participation in professional conferences, workshops, or groups.  • Updated custom Touch-screen POS System. Graphic and Web Designer Laguna Beach Jean Co - Los Angeles, CA June 2010 to June 2012 lagunabeachjc.com  • Created dynamic website, maintained the shopping cart, designed promotional banners.  • Led product development from idea to mass production (15 jeans & 10 shirts, buttons, rivets,  hang-tags, labeles, bags and box packaging)  • Performed photoshoots, photo and video editing.  • 3D Modeling and rendering the floor-plan. Web Design Internship Focus Central Incorporated September 2009 to March 2011 focuscentral.org  • Designed website and promotianal banners.  • Completed all layouts of client information. Education Bachelor's in Digital Entertainment and Game Design Technical Institute Skills Magento (6 years), Adobe Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Indesign) (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), UI, Front End Links http://www.peterproductions.net Additional Information Skills  • Web Development & Graphic Design   • eCommerce (Magento, Electronic graphic images and animations  Shopping Solutions LLC, Woo Commerce) Technical & Software  • Proficient in HTML, XHTML programming   • Proficient in both Windows and  and CSS design, Media Queries, and Macintosh operating systems  creating and modifying pages   • Email and Video Campaigns  • Wordpress (Mailchimp, Wistia, Brightcove)  • Basic understanding of object-oriented   • Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop,  programming principles Indesign, Dreamweaver, Flash,  • Ability to produce graphic art and Illustrator) visual materials for promotions,   • Autocad (3D Studio Max, Maya) advertisements and media outlets such   • Microsoft Office products (Excel, as websites and print PowerPoint, Word)