IOS Developer IOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> IOS Developer - Ernst & Young Atlanta, GA • Over 8+ years of development experience in Information Technology, with a progressive and robust experience in Object-oriented technologies, experience in the full-life cycle of the software development process.  • Skilled in engineering Mac OS X, iPhone and iPad applications using iPhone-SDK and Objective-C.  • Create applications and frameworks for the iOS platform using Xcode.  • Developed native based iPhone applications using Objective C and Swift, XCode, iPhone SDK and Cocoa Touch framework.  • Perfect understanding of ARC and non-ARC in iOS development for Memory Management.  • experience in designing & developing User Interface applications, integrating with various Databases and Client-Server applications in iPhone/iPad application development using Objective-C, C++, Swift, Cocoa Touch, UIKit, (OOA&OOD) .SQL, Cocoa Bindings, Core animation custom controls and object oriented programming.  • Extensively worked with Story Board, Map Kit, Core Data, Multithreading, User Defaults, SQLite, UI Alert, Delegates/Protocols and Categories  • Strong knowledge of Objective C (iPhone/iPad), iOS SDK 4, iOS SDK 5, iOS SDK 6, iOS SDK 7, iOS SDK 7.1 application development using Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, UIKit, Java, PERL.  • Worked extensively on Xcode, Interface Builder and Instrument.  • Strong knowledge about Core Frameworks like, MapKit, Core object, Core services, Core Graphics, Core animation, UIKit & MVC methodologies.  • Experienced in working with SQLite Database, Google Maps API, Map Quest API, GPS Location, In-app billing, Push Notifications.  • Experience in JSON, XML, and DOM.  • Experience in database development using SQLite, MySQL, RDBMS and MS Access.  • Extensive experience in iPhone & iPad application development.  • Expert in making efficient use of Interface Builder in building the applications.  • Sound knowledge of uploading applications to the Apple Store.  • Ensured to meet the business, project and design goals and objectives.  • Proven ability in optimizing resource utilization and management of day to day project activities in compliance to delivery schedules  • I have team handling experience with well-defined scope and boundary, under the direct project manager.  • Ability to learn, understand and fix any problem within a small proximity of time. Excellent communication and customer handling skills.  • Self motivated and a good team player with excellent communication and interpersonal skills and also capable of working independently even under high-pressure challenges.  • Strong problem solving and logical reasoning skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IOS Developer Ernst & Young - Atlanta, GA February 2017 to Present Description: EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services, and provides global perspectives on the issues affecting today's businesses. The EY Insights application gives you access to in-depth reports, surveys and thought-provoking analyses on these issues, covering every major industry sector across the world. You can also contact the people behind the views, to discuss what they mean for your organization. Stay informed and connected with EY Insights.    Responsibilities  • Involved in understanding the business, current process and requirements.  • Worked with the project manager to support project plans and appropriate resource and time allocation.  • Worked in an Agile Scrum environment.  • Created View controllers both programmatically and through Storyboards.  • Created a side swipe menu controller which makes it easy to navigate through the application.  • Worked with Navigations controllers, Navigation Bars and Tab Bars.  • Used Cocoa Pods.  • Development in Swift 3/4 for iPhone, iPad and Apple TV  • A key customer relationship management (CRM) component, a customer facing solution is designed to deliver satisfying user experiences via all customer touch points.  • Integrated third party APIs.  • Implemented NSOperationQueue and NSURLConnection to integrate with backend web services.  • Implemented HTTP live streaming by including various URL points to a valid stream in a control style. (HLS)  • Used the NSFileManager to store the user order details in a file permanently.  • Used the SOAP web service to retrieve the all the customer base information from the SQL server.  • Used NSXML parser for parsing after downloading data from server using RESTFul calls.  • Used Core Data Framework for local storage purpose in SQLite.  • Responsible for designing, coding and testing the app.  • Worked extensively with Objective C and cocoa frameworks including Core Data, Foundation, Core Animation and UIKit.  • Integrated various Restful Web services call to application using asynchronous NSURL calls for background downloading.  • Currently working extensively with swift for upcoming applications.  • Comfortable with swift all the way up to version 2.1/2.2 as well as bridging headers  • Followed Agile Methodology in developing the enterprise application.  • Worked with UI Framework for the applications at hand.  • Responsible for App support and latest versions compatibility.    Environments: iOS 10.0, 11.0, iPhone SDK, Mac OS X, React Native, Objective-C, Swift, XCode 8.0,9.0, Agile Scrum Methodology, HTML5, HTTP live streaming (HLS), CSS, REST, JIRA, JavaScript. IOS Application Developer Infinity Insurance - Birmingham, AL June 2015 to February 2017 Description: Infinity Insurance provides a wide range of coverage options for you, your automobile, your business, or your home. We also develop important relationships along the way. These valuable relationships with local agencies have helped Infinity to become an important national automobile insurance company.    Responsibilities  • Worked extensively with Objective C, Cocoa frameworks, React Native app.  • Implemented a beta version of the app using React-Native (iOS/Android app).  • Implemented Core Data for persistent storage of user data.  • Implemented UI sections on React-Native as proof of concept (Channels view using Table View and Flat List, Navigation Controller and Tab views).  • Created models in MVC and development of delegates for updating model information.  • Created of various views, table views, customized views and popovers.  • Redesigned several screens including default application landing screen as per newer wireframe.  • Created custom checklist and sharing them with selected app users by calling web services through JSON libraries and connecting to SQLite database with the objective C interfaces.  • Created of notifications to detect the autorotation in the customized sub views.  • Implemented NS Operation Queue and NS URL Connection to integrate with backend web services.  • Custom UI implemented with XIBs, and Manual Retain/Release memory management.  • Developed Navigation between views was mixture of using UI Navigation Controller, and UI Popover Controller.  • Took care of Code Review, Code Fixes and Bug Fixes.  • Performed all tasks from UI design and implementation to writing code for various features.  • Used several methods for testing and tracking of application like kiwi.  • Designed XSDs to define the xml structure of data exchanged between iPhone and server.  • Managed data and memory management from streamlining code and using various debugging tests.  • Interacting with QA on deliverables on every iteration and customer feedback implementation.    Environment: iOS 8,9, iPhone SDK, React-Native 0.44-0.49, iOS Foundation Framework, Objective C, Xcode, Cocoa Touch, Cocoa Framework, Interface Builder, iPhone Simulator. IOS Application Developer SEED InfoTech - Santa Ana, CA June 2013 to May 2015 Description: The project at hand involved a convenient, easy to use tool to help you find your perfect BEHR color, discover new designer-coordinated color combinations, and preview your color choices in room scenes and on exteriors.  Responsibilities:  • Customized table view cells according to the client requirements.  Extensively worked with instrument tools to minimize memory leaks and assure overall application stability.  • Worked with Backend team to display the correct data format in devices.  • Integrated a web-based content made with HTML5 on a Native application using UI Web View.  • Worked on Web Service calls and JSON parsing.  • Used the same XIB to design for iPhone 5 and older iPhones by using Auto-layout. Web service cells by including XML parsing and JSON parsing in the project.  • Responsible for service Integration Development and Testing.  • Made a UI Tab Bar Navigation AWS, Azure, Google cloud based application.  • Used GitHub to pull code and make changes in the code and push the code back and expertise in device firmware testing.  • Used OpenGL API for rendering 2D and 3D vector graphics.  • Experienced the creating of applications that consume RestFul API's.  • Involved in creating navigation and coding for user interface layout and views.  • SQLite is used to store data in the project and TestFlight API is used to get user logs and crash reports.  • Implemented PushNotifications and LocalNotifications and Fixed bugs are documented by QA team.  • Multi-Threaded some of the modules in the app by running tasks in a separate thread using GCD blocks and NSOperationQueue for optimizing the performance.  • Tested application on HybridAndroid Version using PhoneGap (Cordova).  • To upload/download the secured files with supporting to SFTP we integrated the 3rd part API.  Environment: iOS 8.0 and iOS 7.x (iPhone SDK), Mac OS X, Objective C, Xcode, Cocoa Touch, Cocoa framework, iPhone Simulator, REST, JSON. Web Developer Affinity Health Plan - Bronx, NY May 2010 to December 2012 Description: Responsible for working on a range of projects, designing appealing websites and interacting on a daily basis with graphic designers, back-end developers and marketers.  Responsibilities  • Developing and maintaining the front end functionality of websites.  • Participating in discussions with clients to clarify what they want.  • Designing prototypes for apps and websites.  • Creating logos, banners and buttons for websites.  • Writing cross-browser compliant XHTML, CSS & JavaScript.  • Simultaneously managing several databases and reporting tools.  • Contacting external webmasters to confirm link placements.  • Provide guidance to other team members on web development issues.  • Developing websites that have a consistent feel and look throughout all web properties.  • Providing technical support to end users.  • Identifying and correcting software deficiencies.  • Devising SEO strategies based around specific keywords.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Responsive design, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Eclipse. Education Bachelor's Skills IOS (4 years), XCODE (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), MAC (3 years), DATABASES (2 years), html, mysql, php, asp Additional Information Technical Skills    OS Windows XP/Vista/7, 8, 10, Mac OSX, Android.  Languages iOS 7,9,10,11, Objective-C, Java, JavaScript, PHP, HTML  Development Tools MS Visual Studio, XCODE  Databases MySQL, MS Access  Web Technologies Tomcat 6.0 & Apache HTTP Server  Enterprise Technologies  Windows 98/2000/XP/VISTA/7, Microsoft Office Suite, Linux, Desktop and Network Printers, MAC, GPMC, RDP, Internet Information Services, VMware, Google Email.    Other Tools/Software Photoshop, 3Ds Max.