ReactJS/UI Developer ReactJS/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> ReactJS/UI Developer - Equifax St. Louis, MO • Over 7+ years of experience in designing and developing in IT industry using JavaScript libraries and frameworks like Angular JS, React JS, Node JS and jQuery with ECMAScript 2015/ ES6 Specifications.  • Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features using React JS and Responsive Design.  • Developed custom Node JS proxy used to send requests to client's APIs, handling authentication and custom headers.  • Implementing many directives from Angular2 in order to create all the functionalities related to the user interface, creating models and controllers with the help of JavaScript.  • Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery and also experience in making web page cross browser compatible.  • Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, CSS and JQuery in ongoing projects.  • Expertise with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, and object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Proficiency in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and Java Script.  • Worked with front-end build environment of Grunt and Gitversion control system.  • Familiar with open source tools: Package Mangers (NPM/Bower) and Atlassian tools (Confluence, JIRA and Stash).  • Profound Knowledge in Document Object Model (DOM).  • Followed W3C standards for building and rendering web pages including HTML, CSS and Ajax for web applications, which includes WCAG ( Web Content Accessibility Guidelines) guidelines.  • Knowledge in HTML5/CSS3, SASS/SCSS, LESS, YAML.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments.  • Experienced in monitoring the Production Environments under 24/7 under on-call rotation to meet the Service Level Agreements set by the management.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome. Work Experience ReactJS/UI Developer Equifax - St. Louis, MO August 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Worked on web applications from scratch using Angular 2/4 to develop single page application.  • Designed and developed the layout of the application using HTML4.0/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and Bootstrap 3.3.4.  • Created multiple reusable components and services using Angular 2/4 built-in and custom directives.  • Used Angular 2/4 and Node.JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller).  • Developed backend web services using Node JS and stored dependencies using NPM.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Angular 2/4, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Created Filters, Directives, Controllers and Services by using Angular2/4.  • Created Angular 2/4 controllers, factories, filters, Routers, and services.  • Used Angular 2/4 Dependency Injection (DI) to inject Angular Services and Custom Services, as well as built custom Directives to provide reusable component.  • Adopted JavaScript and jQuery 1.1.0 to manipulate DOM, basic logic and event handlers.  • Involved in implementation of RESTFUL web service APIs using Node.js.  • Debugged and logged using Chrome developer tools, configured test environment using Karma and wrote unit test using Jasmine.  • Adopted Git for version controlling and JIRA for project tracking.  • Used Web pack & NPM, Bower for package management.  • Performed CRUD operations in the Mongodb database.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA..  • Experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular 1.x/Angular2/Angular4 and ReactJS framework.  • Used agile methodology for the software development life cycle.  • Used Gulp as the build task runner to build and package the application.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and worked on different browsers like Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Participating the Sprint Planning and User Story Grooming sessions and suggesting can-do and cannot-do in each Sprint.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, JIRA, Bootstrap, React js, Node.js, Angular2/4, MongoDB, Git, Karma, Jasmine. Web/UI Developer Microsoft - Redmond, WA January 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React JS, Redux, Node JS, Mongo DB.  • Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Involved to implement various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Redux concept.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Used React JS to build the UI components, developed filters to display different dimension of data and font size modifiers.  • Used jQuery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information. Rapid prototyping of design concepts.  • Used React JS to abstracts away from the DOM function, giving a simpler programming model and better performance.  • Implemented architectural and component front-end architecture with React JS app client.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Used Web pack, Babel, grunt and gulp for transpiration (compilation) configuration for typescript to be converted to JavaScript.  • Work with source/Version Control System- GitLab and GitHub.  • Familiar with Cross Browser Testing and Debugging.  • Demonstrated ability to complete projects in deadline-oriented environments  • Debugged the application using Chrome Dev tools, Redux Dev tools.  • For Responsive Web design used Bootstrap to build grids, layouts and components. Used Bootstrap components like dropdown menus, navigation bar, alerts, and labels.  • Used GIT bash commands to clone the project from bit bucket.  • Worked with several open-source libraries based on React JS for efficient and expedited project delivery.  • Used NPM and Bower package managers to install and manage all the required packages.  • Used Git for version control and GitHub for storing repositories  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, DOM, JSON, Node JS, React JS, Handlebar JS, AJAX, RESTFUL API, MYSQL, Git, LESS/SASS, web pack, Bootstrap, Responsive Web Design, SharePoint. Web/UI Developer Share Care - Atlanta, GA March 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Involved in web designing using AngularJs, HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Developed the chat application single handedly to be responsive for 3 applications (auto, home and service online).  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like AngularJS.  • Highly used Angular router to build single page application for navigation through the different status and multiple modals.  • Implement functionality such as Searching, Filtering, Sorting and validating data using Angular framework.  • Developed and tested features in an AGILE environment using Angular-2 and Advanced JavaScript.  • Responsible for developing reusable components using Custom Directives and routing based on states using UI-Routing in AngularJS.  • Developing Angular factories that can be reused where ever they fit in by injecting them.  • Sending requests and responses in Micro services through SPRING - REST Controllers through HTTPS.  • Consumed REST based Micro services with REST template based on RESTful APIs.  • Used AngularJS native features extensively to develop Mobile First Application.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface.  • Followed Agile and Cassandra and reactive programming methodologies.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Used GIT version control.    Environment: Java, HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, MVC, DOM, JSON, AngularJS, Node JS, React JS, JSP, AJAX. UI Developer Optival Health Solutions January 2012 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the front end using Angularjs, HTML, DHTML, and XML.  • Used JSON for data interchange, as it's faster and can be parsed using JavaScript.  • Extensively worked with JavaScript cookies.  • Developed JavaScript and optimized existing scripts for efficiency.  • Used JavaScript, HTML5, and jQuery for forms validations.  • Used the jQuery widgets like Accordion, Date picker, Draggable, Droppable, Resizable jQuery interactions.  • Redesigned user interface HTML frameworks with Bootstrap and refined CSS styling.  • Worked with jQuery UI plug-in like Widgets, Interactions, and Effects.  • Worked with jQuery Message plug-in, jQuery Validation Plug-in.  • Used Ajax XML Http Request to post chat messages and to periodically check the server for new messages and update your chat window.  • Elegant implementation of page designs in standards-compliant HTML and CSS.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS based page layouts.  • Highly involved in making updates to the current website and simultaneously handling other projects.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS,XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, DTD, Restful API. Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies:  HTML, HTML 5, XHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Angular2, Node JS, React JS, AJAX JSON, CSS, CSS3, Bootstrap, UI Concept Modeling/Wire framing, Restful Web Services.    Frameworks: AngularJS, Bootstrap, React JS  SDLC's: Agile (Scrum), Waterfall and Extreme Programming  Editors: Notepad++, Sublime Text, Visual Studio.  Web Server: HTTP Web Server, RESTful Services  Database: SQL Server 2008 and 2012, No SQL, Cassandra, Oracle 10g/11g  Version Controls: SVN and Git; Grunt, Bower and NPM.  Operating System: Windows, Mac OS, Unix  Other Tools: Visio, Dev Tool and Adobe Site Catalyst (Omniture)