PHP Full Stack Developer PHP Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> PHP Full Stack Developer - DOCS, Rutgers University North Brunswick, NJ • 7+years of experience as a PHP/Moodle professional in Open Source Web Technology.  • Extensive experience in web and client server technologies covering all phases of project development including business requirements analysis, architecture and design, user interface design, module and component construction and implementation. Specializing in multi-tier web or traditional client / server projects using LAMP technologies.  • Strong design, development and estimation skills in PHP 4 & 5 with very good hold on Object Oriented Programming, SDLC concepts, UI Development, MYSQL.  • Proficient in developing applications using PHP MVC design patterns and frameworks like Sonic, Code Ignitor, Zend, Symfony and People Aggregator.  • Alter the existing Moodle (PHP CMS Package) core modules without touching the core modules (i.e., By writing my own plugins and altering the existing plugins)  • Experience with SOAP/REST web service and related protocols for data-intensive and complex analytic systems desired.  • Huge knowledge of Laravel framework, packages and composer.  • Experience in Drupal Themes developing Drupal custom modules, resolving Drupal configuration issues  • Strong analytical, programming, communication skills and also experience in interaction with clients.  • Good understanding of Linux commands, shell scripting, file system and handling  • Quick learner with proactive attitude and adaptable to learn new skills and technologies for enhanced productivity.  • Talented systems administrator offering four years of experience in a Unix/Linux environment and expertise in several flavors of Linux including Red Hat, CentOS, Gentoo Linux and Ubuntu. Work Experience PHP Full Stack Developer DOCS, Rutgers University - New Brunswick, NJ May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed processes to create courses, students and enrollments using the Moodle Web Services API.  • Designed and created the database to capture the daily enrollments, drops and withdrawals and push the new data to Moodle.  • Automate the process using CRON. Maintain, test and improve the performance.  • Upgraded the site from Moodle 2.8 to 3.5. Tested and implemented the changes on the upgraded site.  • Designed and developed an admin app using Laravel to maintain/control the courses and student enrollment data.  • Used composer to install packages in the app. Added theme, roles, permissions for the same.  • Deployed the AdminLTE theme for the Laravel App. Created migrations and seeds for custom user roles and permissions.  • Designed and developed a server monitor Laravel based App. Used laravel-server-monitor package to run checks on different servers.  • Analyzed the usage of Docker to containerize an application. Implemented the Laravel App using docker-compose and containers.  • Scaled the application with the usage of docker swarm. Created a custom swarm network to maintain the application services.  • Installed and implemented portainer container to manage the docker hosts, containers and images. PHP Full Stack Developer The Institutes - Malvern, PA November 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Maintained LMS based on Moodle and PHP including design, configurations and customizations for the TI website for both admin and user experience while working in a Scrum team in an Agile development environment  • Wrote scripts to automate Moodle routines and processes, integrated plugins and wrote new plugins to extend the Moodle system core features as a part of Moodle upgrade process from 1.9 to 3.0  • Migrated from Drupal Version 7 to 8 including installing, theming and customizing systems with new enhancements.  • Building HTML/CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Migrated content from Drupal version 7 to 8 using migrate tools  • Create custom Drupal modules using PHP 7, MySQL, JavaScript and configure required contributed Modules  • Customizing the Drupal 8 content types and Modules.  • Analyzing and repairing compromised (virus-infected, hacked) WordPress websites  • Migrating and cloning large WordPress sites modified to accommodate new client specifications, testing new releases to assure compliance and non-breakage of custom logic.  • Developing custom Drupal 8 themes to effectively address customer business requirements.  • Created dynamic pages for plugins using PHP, JS, HTML and AJAX.  • Created a plugin to help admins do a quality control check on the courses before launching them for the users. Also worked on the cross-credit tiers to enable dynamic exam sizing for CEU courses for students across different states  • Developed custom theme for Moodle, resolved any technical issues and helped cross browser testing of the new functionalities on multiple devices/OS  • Helped in User Acceptance Testing for a new course launch, fixed issues and bugs and documented the test cases in Test Rail  • Helped in code review across team, used GIT, Stash & Sourcetree for merging code.  • Created scheduled tasks to be run as a part of CRON jobs to remove old data across tables.  • Added error reporting mechanism using Xdebug tool to create error logs and find the root cause of the issue. PHP Developer SHRP, Rutgers University - Scotch Plains, NJ December 2015 to September 2016 Scotch Plains, NJ  (Office of Mental Health (OMH), NY State Govt. Funded Project)  Responsibilities:  • Performed functions related to network administration to ensure enhancements and programming related to current technologies perform adequately.  • Responsible for back-end programming related to Moodle LMS and Articulate CMS integration for the product APS (www.academyofpeerservices.org)  • Developed and modified PHP related enhancements that assist with the utility of Moodle and Articulate Storyline.  • Provided assistance, as needed, to Instructor Designers for the conversion of content to the current SCORM package for integration with the LMS.  • Developed mechanisms to provide reports on user and course data by creating scripts to analyze database for each term.  • Used JavaScript functions for an easy to access in modules designing and maintenance.  • Helping on a virtual community for the supervisor track using WordPress.  • Provided support and troubleshoot web products used by faculty and staff to maintain their websites. PHP Developer AT&T New Jersey, NJ January 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Development/Modifying of different modules of the application, creating technical specification, estimations as per the ISO standards.  • Peer code review of the development actions as well as test case review of the test cases created by QA.  • Gathering requirements though video conference, skype call or via email communication from client, Unit testing of application, managing application delivery procedure and managing sources of the application using SVN version control tool.  • Participation in internal quality audits.  • Implemented the Mobile applications integration for Iphone and Black berry with single sign on.  • Integrated the Domino server with SiteMinder Domino Agents for SSO.  • Used CSS media queries and jQuery to convert a Drupal theme into responsive theme within a short deadline to meet the Google mobile friendly algorithm update requirements.  • Configured Ping Federate 5.x/6.x for SSO across multiple web based enterprise applications.  • Involved in the SAP upgrade Projects for Site minder Integration.  • Hands on experience with configuring IdP initiated and SP initiated SAML profiles with different bindings like POST, Artifact, Redirect as per the custom business and security requirements.  • Configured Apache Server and PHP Scripting Engine and MySQL Database Server  • Designed, Developed, and Maintained Web sites with PHP, MySQL, CSS, HTML, DHTML, and JavaScript  • Used HTML/DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS to produce high performance, rich and user-friendly Web interface  • Tested all application controllers extensively with mocha/chai and Angular's built-in testing facilities  • Refactored, re-architected, and enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVVM/MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance, 40% code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spin up, enhanced performance and offline with client caching.  • Maintained web applications and e-commerce web sites within a LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment that includes distributed web servers and a MySQL database cluster.  • Writing scripts using XML language  • Designed User Interface, Coded Functionality and performed Unit Testing. Web Developer Trisag Technologies May 2011 to July 2013 India  Responsibilities:  • Developing Web application using PHP & Java that allows to the business owners to advertise their promotions in the website and help their customers to search for those businesses and its promotions.  • Installed and configured application and database server for UAT and Production  • Designed and developed multiple RESTful web services and APIs in the development of various mobile applications.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Customized WordPress plugins and built new custom plugins.  • Primary focus on website design and development, specializing in custom WordPress themes.  • Built AJAX pages using PHP and created various asynchronous web applications  • Upgraded existing modules with new technology, rectified flaws if any in the system  • Assisting in preparing articles, flash news, presentations on a regular basis  • Maintaining of company's business channels/networks through effective understanding of products, ideas & resources.  • Communicating project status to all interested parties and ensures team stays on track to satisfy client expectations  • Identifying and escalating issues and, when necessary, pulling appropriate teams together to solve challenge/issue, etc. Education Bachelors in Computer Science Maharshi Dayanand University May 2011 Skills JAVASCRIPT (6 years), PHP (6 years), AJAX (5 years), jQuery (3 years), WEB SERVICES (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Web Technologies PHP, Moodle, XML, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jquery  Databases MYSQL, SQL, Oracle 8i, MS-Access.  Development Tools Eclipse, SVN version control system, Dreamweaver    Operating Systems Linux (Ubuntu, Debain), Windows 98/2000/XP, DOS  Other technologies  Laravel, Composer, Docker, Container, Swarm, Drupal, WordPress, ZEND, AngularJS, CakePHP, Web services (SOAP, REST), SAML, Smarty, Bootstrap, design patterns (MVC), MySQL - functions, XML, stored procedures, triggers and transactions, JQuery, XLST, Shell scripting, , PHPUnit, SVN, Moodle, Articulate Storyline, SourceTree, Stash, GIT, JIRA, Google Cloud, Apache, TestRail, Redmine