Dot net Developer Dot net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Dot net Developer - Wells Fargo Omaha, NE Seeking challenging .net developer role in an esteemed company to offer best of my abilities gained from hands-on professional expertise and academic skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Dot net Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Involved in project life cycle, User interaction, Requirements gathering, Data Analysis, Design Development, Testing and Implementation.  • Develop user interfaces and web services with ASP.NET4.5, C# .NET, Java script, jQuery, MVC 4.5, WCF within Microsoft visual studio 2015.  • Develop backend SQL scripts using SQL Server 2016 and SQL Server 2014  • Used EF 4.1 as the Object Relational Mapper (ORM) for the application.  • Develop SSIS packages and schedule them via jobs managed by Autosys tool.  • Plan and Facilitate Joint Application Development sessions with SEMs.  • Communicate with project managers as to the progress of open items and work with other teams as needed.  • Anthill has been used for deploying the changes to various environments.  • Tortoise SVN has been used as a source repository to maintain the tasks related to the project.    Environment: Visual Studio 2015, .Net 4.5, SSIS, SSRS, Entity framework 4.1, MVC 4.5, jQuery, Soap UI, HTML5, CSS3, Sql Server 2016, Tortoise SVN, Anthil, Autosys, web services Dot net Developer AmerisourceBergen Fort Mill January 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in daily agile scrum meetings, sprint planning, sprint retro, daily stand-up calls and refinement meetings with BA to understand the client requirements  • Involved in estimation, design and development of various modules, bug fixing, maintenance of the product and peer reviews.  • Ability to meet deadlines, capable of handling pressure coordinating multiple priorities and managing customer expectations.  • Performed ETL [ Extraction, Transformation, Loading] by using various control flow items like for each loop, for loop, Execute SQL task, Script task, Bulk insert task and File system task.  • Experienced in creating the packages in optimized way, sql job scripts, debugging (Data viewers, Break points) and deploying the packages in SSIS.  • Involved in generating incremental files, developing and scheduling jobs.  • Involved in creating the CRM Application front end using C#, ASP.NET, MVC, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Entity Framework, Web Services and AJAX.  • Involved in executing SSIS packages, PowerShell scripts, Console Apps, Command Line scripts and stored procedures.  • Involved in writing Optimized ETL which supports developing multiple clients.  • Well experienced in version control management using TFS.  • Attending project discussion call with client/operations/BA.  • Used Automated Process Inventory to update the TFS source code location, job schedule and technical design document.    Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2015, sql server 2015, SSIS, web services, soap UI, ASP.Net 4.0, MVC 4.0, TFS, Html, CSS, Entity framework Dot net Developer Washington, DC January 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment by using method such as scrum  • Used C# for developing web applications for MVC 4.5  • Used WPF, HTML5, and CSS3 to design the presentation layer of the website.  • TFS 2013 is been used as a source control repository to maintain the tasks related to the project.  • Extensively used stored procedures, functions, Triggers in SQL 2012 to increase the backend performance while loading the information based on the user's dynamic language selection.  • Extensively coordinated with development team, project management team to resolve issues faster.  • Used GitHub for distributed version control of all software development.  • Designed SSIS Packages to transfer data from SQL Server to flat files using Business Intelligence Development Studio.  • Used bundling and minification feature of MVC and reduced the number of hits internally made by HTTP requests.  • Used XSL defined schema structures for XML files.  • Effectively developed Service Oriented Architecture(SOA) services using WCF 4.5  • Effectively used EF 5.0 as the Object Relational Mapper (ORM) for the application.  • Use Window azure to deploy the application on cloud and managing the session  Environment: Visual Studio 2013, .Net 4.5, C#, SQL Server 2012, SSIS, SSRS, WPF, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, WCF4.5, MVC 4.5, Entity framework. Web Developer/Designer ADT - Boca Raton, FL June 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment using scrum methodology  • Involved in requirements, design, development, implementation, production support and testing using MVVM model.  • Tortoise SVN is used as source code repository and to maintain the tasks related to the project.  • Design documentation such as business context diagram, physical network diagram, integration architecture diagram and system context diagram using Microsoft Visio.  • Worked with IIS web Server 7.0 to manage web sites, redirect requests, restart IIS, troubleshoot and provided fix after analyzing IIS logs.  • Coordinated across teams such as database team, infrastructure team and provided timely resolution for issues in production.  • Used SSIS for data transformation from Excel data base to SQL Server 2008 and SSRS for reporting.  • Responsible for designing and developing ASP.NET web pages using ASP.NET 4.0, Java script, ADO.Net, SQL, HTML, CSS and AJAX Web services.  • Created SSIS packages and used Tivoli monitoring system to analyze and monitor components of the system.  • Used WCF SOAP web services to implement and communicate with other software applications.    Environment: ASP.NET 4.0, SSRS, SSIS, HTML and CSS, Tortoise SVN, IIS 7.0 Web Developer/Designer Texas A&M University - Corpus Christi, TX September 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed single page application for CFE (Center for faculty excellence).  • It is a responsive interactive website using HTML5, PHP, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX  • Conducted workshops for faculty to enhance training and learning  • Made use of Camtasia and Adobe Dreamweaver to give better performance and richness to the user interface  Environment: HTML5, PHP CSS3, JavaScript, Camtasia and Adobe Dreamweaver Education Master's Degree in Computer Science Texas A&M University August 2012 to May 2014 Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science and Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University September 2008 to May 2012 Skills AJAX. (3 years), ASP (3 years), MS SQL SERVER (4 years), SQL (4 years), SQL Server (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Programming Languages: C#, SQL, PL/SQL, C++ and Java  • .NET Technologies/Platforms: .NET Framework 3.5/4.0, ASP.NET 4/4.5, ADO.NET, Entity Framework 4.1, MVC 4/4.5, WCF/ Web Services  • Operating Systems: Windows XP, Windows 7, UNIX, DOS  • Database Tools: SQL Server 2008/2012, 2014, SSRS, SSIS, Profiler, Query Analyzer and MS-Access  • IDE/Tools: Visual Studio 2010/2012/2015, Team foundation server(TFS), GitHub, Tortoise SVN, MS-Office Suite, MS Visio, Adobe Dreamweaver  • Mark-up and Scripting Languages: HTML, HTML5, CSS3, XML, AJAX, XSL, XSLT, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON  • Web Servers: IIS 6.5, 7.0