ServiceNow Developer/ Admin ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Admin ServiceNow Developer/ Admin - GE Appliances Louisville, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow Developer/ Admin GE Appliances - Louisville, KY June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Integration with Slack (Team collaboration tool) with service portal knowledge base.  • Integration with 3rd party Eracent Service Catalog.  • Involved in Evanios monitoring tool integration. Events created in monitoring tool will create incidents in ServiceNow.  • Testing the Change module, Problem module and RP's in service catalog in the new Jakarta instance  • Implementation and Administration of ITSM (Incident, Problem and Change) Management Processes, Building Service Catalog, CMDB (Configuration Management Database) Maintenance and Knowledge in ServiceNow  • Created dashboards for different business segments within an organization for reporting and performance analysis.  • Designed, customized and configured Workflows, Views, Business Rules, UI Policies and UI Actions.  • Coordinating and working with on-site business and project team members and offshore development team for gathering and reviewing various functional and design requirements. ServiceNow Developer/ Admin Entergy Corp - New Orleans, LA January 2016 to May 2017 New Orleans, LA  January 2016 to May 2017  • Gathering requirements and converting BRD's into technical requirements.  • Design and engineer solutions leveraging all appropriate components offered by ServiceNow to answer the needs for business workflows, ticketing or other ITSM requirements.  • Design and Development of Applications and modules to deliver the Clients business needs.  • Developed Visio flow diagrams to demonstrate to Business  • Worked with GUI team in developing wire frames.  • Configuring and administering the ServiceNow ITSM tools.  • Review change request in order to approve or reject to enable implementation or back out in production instance.  • Configuring SLA's using SLA definitions for Incident, Catalog Tasks and Catalog Items.  • Customized UI Appearance for Incident, Problem, Change and Project Management Application, which is simple, intuitive and easy to use.  • Adding UI policies and UI actions to achieve customer requirements.  • Working on configuring catalog items and adding them to ESS page.  • Scheduling jobs using JavaScript that runs at time of interval.  • Involved in working with process owners to develop workflow, implement the workflows in Service Applications.  • Managed data in Tables, the CMDB, Import Sets, and Update Sets.  • Created schedules, reports and monitored performance.  • Maintained the Configuration Items and modified the forms and form Sections.  • Developed and improved user systems procedures, and prepared systems documentation.  • Assist with identifying and managing CI classes, CI attributes and relations within CMDB.  • Developed custom reports as per client and management requirement.  • Developed new service catalog items and fix bugs in incident, problem and change management.  • Created UI pages and Macros.  • Designed Workflows, along with standard Workflow templates, which can be reused.  • Involved in LDAP integration with ServiceNow for obtaining users and groups.  • Involved in Configuration, Web Services, Catalog Client Scripting, and SOAP.  • Integrated Service now with downstream applications using MID Server, Web Services,  • Expertise on using DISCOVERY to load configuration information to CMDB.  • Worked on creating users, roles, groups.  • Involved in running the jobs to push the data into the application using Import Sets and Transform Maps.  • Generated weekly reports and metrics for IT management. ServiceNow Developer/ Analyst Capital One - Plano, TX July 2014 to December 2015 Environment: Service Now(*Geneva), CMDB, Webservices, ITIL, Java, JQuery, Spring MVC, Restful, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, SQL.  ServiceNow Developer/ Analyst  Capital One - Plano, TX  July 2014 to December 2015  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the requirements and developed a plan to start the new ITSM enhancements project  • Designing the Content Management System for Various system which involved layout, UI pages, CSS and Service catalog work.  • Creating Users and assigning Roles as per requirement for Change Management.  • Worked on email Notifications as per requirement.  • Follow standard procedures for proper escalation of unresolved issues to the responsible internal teams.  • Unit Testing of deliverables to the client.  • Configured the complex workflows that drive the Catalog Items.  • Search, Populate and Customize the Knowledge Base.  • Used Import Sets and Transform Maps to extract data from various sources.  • Configured multiple forms for asset module using Configuration Management DB.  • Use of Import Sets and Transform Maps to extract data from various sources.  • Customizing Forms, Lists, and Choices for Custom applications based on the requirement.  • Involved in running the daily and weekly jobs to push the data into the application using Import Sets and Transform Maps.  • Managed Users, Groups and Roles.  • Responsible for the administering the Service-Now instances and clone scheduling process.  • Resolving Incidents, Service Requests from the queue.  • Creation on new Custom applications and Tables based on the business requirements  • Involved in Integration with BMC Remedy and HP Service Manager using SOAP Messages and Scripted Web Services.  • Facilitating rollout of new applications and modules.  • Implemented LDAP Integration to load users from MS Active Directory into Service Now.  • Developed various workflows for Catalog Items and Change Management Process.  • Build reports, gauges, and home pages.  • Search, populate, and customize the knowledge base.  • Actively involved in daily Scrum meetings.  • Involved in documentation of existing process. ServiceNow Admin/ Developer Bank of America - Frisco, TX January 2013 to June 2014 Environment: Service Now, SOAP, CMS, Transform Maps, Service Catalog, CMDB, Workflows, Change Management, Java Script, AngularJS, JSON, jQuery, WebServices, ITIL.  ServiceNow Admin/ Developer  Bank of America - Frisco, TX  January 2013 to June 2014  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the business requirements, functional specifications in doing the GAP analysis and then transforming them to detailed design documents.  • Independently built and executed script using JavaScript/PHP technology to meet the business needs.  • Implemented ITIL process including incident, problem, change, knowledge and CMDB for better ITSM on Service-Now.  • Developed ServiceNow Suite configuration - specifically in Service Request fulfillment, Service catalogue, Incident, Problem, Change, Reports, Dashboard, Workflow, and On-Call Module.  • Developed ServiceNow Web services based on ServiceNow objects, for Yahoo IT systems using SOAP, REST, and JSON.  • Created transform maps both automatic field mapping and scripting.  • Worked and monitoring the various aspects of the projects like Incident, Problem, Service Request, Change Management (including the release management) and Demand Management.  • Worked on configuration of ServiceNow modules, Applications, Forms, Email Notifications, SLA for priority tickets, etc.  • Developed automation of approvals and Change process by using task based approach with Run scripts in workflows and business rule and client scripting on the Record.  • Designed/customized and configuring Workflows, Views, SLA, Hierarchy designing and maintenance, Complex Business Rules, UI Policies and UI Actions, Reports.  • Responsible for development of change Process like Propose Change, Freeze and Standard Maintenance Window by creation of tables, forms, Workflows, Business rules and client scripts.  • Working on creation and customization of complex workflows and custom workflow activities. Worked with transform maps, data sources and different transform scripts for data loads and management.  • Performed Data loading of CI Attributes for CMDB using Transform Scripts and Import Sets. Web Developer Siemens - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2011 to December 2012 India.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented Graphical User Interface design and also worked on HTML, DHTML, XML, XSL, CSS and client validations using Java script.  • Involved in developing Web Services (SOAP) to support internal and external requests.  • Worked on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java, Spring MVC and WebSphere.  • Implemented the modules using Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern.  • Participated in department wide initiatives to address long term business, technical, and performance goals.  • Tested the application using Use cases and used Use cases for identify and clarify requirement and also agile methods for building the software.  • Involved in designing, creating, reviewing Technical Design Documents.  • Worked with other internal IT teams to complete project activities (Architecture and Database teams)  • Designed database Queries for updating, insertion and retrieval of asset information and rates.  • Written Stored Procedures and packages for database operations.  • Performed Unit and system testing of application code as well as execution of implementation activities.  • Used jQuery and AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Performed Identification, documentation and estimation of technical tasks of varying sizes and levels of complexity of the project.  • Used Oracle stored procedures, triggers, functions and packages.  • Code reviews for the Servlets in order to get high performance and coding Java Classes.  • Interfaces were developed to the database with the help of JDBC drivers for Oracle  • Developed user interface screens using JSP, JQuery, JSON, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and JSP Custom Tags.  • Used JDBC calls to update the database at the application server  • Written UNIX shell scripts to copy the data files from one server to another  • Wrote SQL queries and PL/SQL procedures for JDBC.  • Developed SQL queries, Joins, Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers and user-defined Functions using T-SQL to implement business rules and transformations  • Experience with reporting tools like SSRS while creating shared and embedded data sources to pull data into reports from the database  • Experience in creating several reports using SQL Server Reporting Services and Crystal Reports.  • Participated and provided feedback in code analysis and reviews.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Apache-Tomcat.  • Designed cross browser compatible web pages.  • Developed XML related APIs in Java as XML is the data transfer standard used for communication between applications. Education Bachelor's Skills Service Now(*Geneva), CMDB, Webservices, ITIL, Java, JQuery, Spring MVC, Restful, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, SQL.