Front End Developer ( Web, Mobile) Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span> (<span class="hl">Web</span>, Mobile) Front End Developer ( Web, Mobile) - PWC, FL Tampa, FL • Worked with User Interface applications and highly transactional and scalable applications using HTML 4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2/4/6, ReactJS, Redux SAGA, jQuery, AJAX, NodeJS, JSON and Bootstrap.  • Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section.  • Excellent knowledge in CSS with preprocessors like LESS and SASS.  • Expertise in JavaScript coding and concepts like closures, promise, prototypal inheritance, modular functions. Developed various Client-side validation libraries using JavaScript.  • Expert working with cutting edge front-end frameworks and libraries like AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, jQuery, JSON, JSP, AJAX and Restful services.  • Experience in using various jQuery controls and corresponding Event handlers etc.  • Experience in writing AngularJS code and familiar with jQuery libraries.  • Handled all the client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using AngularJS.  • Designed front-end user interfaces with ReactJS by creating many components and modules. Used Redux SAGA to view and action creators as pure functions and it allows to model state transitions using familiar JavaScript constructs.  • Experience in NodeJS modules like grunt, bower, express, mongoose and integrate with design and requirements to implement modules.  • Extensive experience in developing single-page applications using JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Experienced in using web design tools like Bootstrap. Overcame challenges like data migration from NoSQL or MongoDB.  • Pleasant experience working in health care, media, commercial and broadcasting domains.  • Expert-level knowledge of cross-browser, cross-platform compatibility and design constraints and Google analytics. Developed RWD using Media Queries and Bootstrap.  • Created a dashboard using Bootstrap 3.0. Used D3.js for charting jQuery and JavaScript for creating view models.  • Implemented test driven development using Testing tools like Grunt/Gulp.  • Used WebStorm for client-side and server-side development with NodeJS.  • Used GIT, SVN for Version controlling, error reporting and project management tools JIRA.  • Worked on Unit test by Test-Driven Development (TDD) to build the application with Angular 2 and JavaScript.  • Used Jasmine as testing framework and Karma as test runner to perform unit testing and it is written entirely in Typescript and meets the ES6 specification.  • Strong understanding and experienced with all the phases of SDLC development methodologies and involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  • Implemented Ecommerce digital transformation for client teams to innovative solutions.  • Dedicated team Player with excellent, communication and Interpersonal skills.  • Experience in complete software SDLC which includes requirement, coding, design, analysis, testing, using Agile, Test Driven methodologies. Work Experience Front End Developer ( Web, Mobile) PWC, FL September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Diverse experience in the field of Web Application Development using HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, JSON, ReactJS, Angular 6, NodeJS, MongoDB, Grunt.  • Extensive knowledge of Object-Oriented JavaScript, especially for applications having workflows involving Angular 6 and ReactJS.  • Strong experience in Client-Side Design. Extensive knowledge on code validations using Lint tools for HTML, CSS and JavaScript provided by NPM and run by Grunt Task Runner.  • Worked with the Management, Development and Quality Assurance team to complete the Web page requirements.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review the complete explicit design with the help of HTML5& CSS3 and responsive by Bootstrap.  • Developed applications using latest JavaScript features and frameworks such as ReactJS to build dynamic web pages.  • Coordinated with content administrators and others to deliver the Web interface requirements.  • Developed internal application using Angular 6 and NodeJS connecting to MongoDB on the backend.  • Worked in ReactJS for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Created Web-API which can return the data from Server database and pass the data to the dropdown list in the corresponding views.  • Used React Router to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements  • Used VSTS as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of issues on daily basis.  • Manage all aspects of MongoDB database administration as a dedicated DBA for a reliable, extensible, high performance, and cross-product.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging & deploying  • Experience in Mocha, Chai, Karma, Jasmine, jest in JavaScript Unit Testing/Test driven Development.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, SASS, Angular 6, ReactJS, Ionic, Visual Studio, ES5, jQuery, Webpack, GIT, NodeJS, JSON, Bootstrap, NPM, Jasmine, Grunt, Xcode. WEB Developer The Home Depot, TX February 2018 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Built the application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular 4, ReactJS, Ionic Framework, Cordova, SASS, MySQL, Bower, Gulp, GIT, ES5.  • Developed Angular 4 reusable components to render the HTML with ionic framework and created architecture of android application  • Well versed in CSS Pre-Processors as SASS, LESS to add nested rules, variables, selector inheritance to CSS.  • Developed applications using latest JavaScript features and frameworks such as ReactJS to build dynamic web pages.  • Utilize Ionic Components, Pages, Providers, Services and Directive for application development.  • Implemented architectural and component front-end architecture with ReactJS app client.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Implemented advanced design patterns for components increasing feature delivery time and collaborated with backend tech lead on technical and architectural directions of app development.  • Designed & Coordinate an automated build & release CI/CD process using Jenkins infrastructure.  • Used ReactJS to build the UI components, developed filters to display different dimension of data and font size modifiers.  • Used NPM and Bower package managers to install and manage all the required packages, Used Git for version control and GitHub for storing repositories  • Developed a tool which gives an overview of the microservices architecture data & relationships.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Researching JavaScript based frameworks like React Native and Ionic/Cordova for the frontend.  • Experience in Karma, Jasmine in JavaScript Unit Testing/Test driven Development (TDD) and (BDD) good knowledge in Load Testing  • Developed Servers like Concourse and Jenkins for continues integration, accelerating development velocity and QA approvals for enabling weekly releases.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, SASS, REST, Gulp, DOM, Angular 4, ReactJS, Ionic, Sublime, Pivotal, WebStorm, ES5, jQuery, Webpack, GIT, NodeJS, JSON, Bootstrap, NPM, Jasmine, Cordova, Bower, Concourse, Jenkins. WEB/UI Developer BestBuy, MN July 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, ReactJS, Redux SAGA, AJAX and JSON.  • Built client side with web development techniques including HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery mobile upon cross platform mobile development.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Involved in writing dynamic functions to read JSON objects & display on HTML pages using JavaScript.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive design (Bootstrap) and media queries. Used JavaScript, jQuery and ReactJS for user interactions in pages.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens and used DHTML to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Used Dynamic HTML for Web documents to look and act like desktop applications or multimedia productions and ReactJS performs optimization while compiling code to JavaScript.  • Designed and added custom UI Themes to the web page using SASS instead of inline- styles.  • Utilized various JavaScript & jQuery libraries, AJAX to form validation in other interactive features and used React Stock for third party warehouse stock management.  • Extensively worked on applications using JSON, XML Objects with MySQL. Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Involved in development of HTML, prototypes and UI deliverables such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups and interface design specifications.  • Used ReactJS to abstracts away from the DOM function, giving a simpler programming model and better performance.  • Used Redux SAGA for API call effect which is a way to get data from any synchronous function.  • Redux assumes that button on click handler would fire a simple redux action with a type API button click.  • Mainly ReactJS will update only the necessary elements instead of re-rendering the complete list when something changes, and it is a huge performance boost for larger number of dynamically created elements.  • Developed backend web services using NodeJS and stored dependencies using NPM.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Created reusable components with well-defined interfaces by using ReactJS.  • Developed and rendered the templates and controlled by the bootstrap flags.  • Used Webpack, babel, grunt and gulp for transpiration(compilation) configuration for typescript to be converted to JavaScript.  • For Responsive Web design used Bootstrap to build grids, layouts and components. Used Bootstrap components like dropdown menus, navigation bar, alerts, and labels.  • Used GIT bash commands to clone the project from bitbucket.  • Worked with several open-source libraries based on ReactJS for efficient project delivery.  • Used NodeJS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC application to build a  • Worked with ReactJS keys, while dynamically created components on lists which are altered by the users and set the key value to keep your components uniquely, identified after the change.  • Used test cases like Jasmine, Karma, Enzyme to provide and setup teardown code for before each function and after each function specifications.  • Used Agile methodology for the software development and kept tracking of the on-going project status and issues using JIRA.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration service to build the code into environments.  • Worked with BA's to discuss technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Participated in daily scrum meetings and weekly sprint meetings with the BA's and QA's to meet expectations, deadlines and contributed effectively during discussion for effective solutions.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, SASS, REST, SVN, GIT, Gulp, DOM, ReactJS, Redux Saga, XML, Sublime, Bitbucket, WebStorm, Jenkins, ES6, jQuery, Webpack, GIT, NodeJS, JSON, Bootstrap, NPM, Jasmine, Grunt, Agile & SCRUM. Front End Developer US Bank, MN January 2017 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing the partner Homepages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ReactJS, NodeJS and jQuery.  • Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and JSON. Involved in writing dynamic functions to read JSON objects & display on HTML pages using JavaScript.  • Responsible for creating website-based applications using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation with in the forms. Used CSS Pre-processors SASS and LESS.  • Extensively used CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  • Worked on developing CSS3 Media Queries to make the application compatible with tablets (Landscape and Portrait), desktops and mobile phones.  • Built Single Page Applications (SPA), Responsive Web Design (RWD) UI, Rich Restful Service Applications, and HTML Wireframes using HTML5 Grid Structures/Layouts and Bootstrap.  • Used ReactJS to improve rendering performance and NodeJS for server applications.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu, bulk update of Attributes using ReactJS & jQuery.  • Used ES6 for applications to enable client-side scripting and created standardize JavaScript.  • Experience in using ReactJS to build web components such as signup form and rule form.  • Creating a range loop directive and components in ReactJS and Implemented MVC framework.  • Developed user interface using NodeJS and developed client-side interface using ReactJS.  • Used JSP to design the user interfaces, and JSP tag libraries to define Custom Tags  • Applied HTTP Service and REST web service to connect the Front-end ReactJS to Back-end NodeJS.  • Designed a loan calculator using ReactJS and displayed results in a pie chart format using D3.js.  • Used TypeScript code to convert into its JavaScript equivalent for execution.  • In Angular 2, template is the View, class is the Controller & the Service (when it used to retrieve data) is the model.  • Utilized the features of Angular 2 to present effective web design. And for delivering use experience like high performance, Off-line accessibility and zero-step installation.  • Worked on Proof of Concept for developing application using NodeJS and MongoDB. Used WebStorm to integrates with NodeJS allowed for running, debugging, and unit testing.  • Implemented testing tool Jasmine and karma to make a simple API to test different components of JavaScript and to put a single expectation in an individual function to test specification.  • Experience in popular build tools for JavaScript projects like Grunt/Gulp or Webpack task runners, Ant and Maven etc.  • Used ReactJS to create a dynamically changing website. Installed Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules and used it to install useful tools such as Grunt, Gulp.  • Worked on many custom modules and widgets using ReactJS/CSS/HTML and made those cross-browsers consistent. Used Version control system GIT and webpage screens for various modules using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Used mocha to test JavaScript code and your HTTP servers by using through Node framework.  • Experience in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  • Involved in Agile work flow. Every two weeks Sprint and Daily standup meetings to discuss the development of application to deliver in time.  • Defined all JavaScript file and reused in various pages of application Conceptualized, designed and developed the UI that are visually pleasing and highly efficient.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, SASS, REST, SVN, GIT, Gulp, DOM, ReactJS, XML, ES6, Typescript, WebStorm, Angular 2, jQuery, NodeJS, JSON, Bootstrap, D3.js, SDLC, Agile & SCRUM. Front End Developer Aetna, AB January 2016 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Working on all the latest technologies like HTML, CSS, etc. Tackled various issues related browser compatibility to accommodate these advanced and fast technologies  • Actively participated and mentoring in requirements gathering, analysis, design, and development and testing phases.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented HTML5 attributes to form elements like date, time, calendar, range & Geo-location.  • Developed CSS style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation & icons.  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Development of Client-Side Validation techniques using jQuery and AngularJS.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Developed web-based applications using through jQuery for message postings  • Designed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript framework like AngularJS.  • Used NodeJS to run Web pack tasks and build properly the project. Also, used for server-side web applications for java script codes to build real-time web APIs.  • Developed server-side services using Web Services (SOAP, RESTful).  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features and SPA AngularJS and NodeJS.  • Grunt to guarantee the quality of code. Worked with Scrum, an Agile Methodology of SDLC Process for day-to-day task.  • Used Mocha to write test case for AngularJS code and Source Control using GitHub.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, SOAP, RESTful, JSP, NPM, DOM, AngularJS, NodeJS. UI Developer HSBC - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, jQuery.  • Coordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table less design following W3C standards.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Using advanced level of jQuery, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using jQuery AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages  • Used SVN for version control and defect tracking.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON. Skills VISUAL STUDIO, C++, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, D3.JS, REACTJS, REDUX, TYPESCRIPT, WEBPACK, JSON, SVN, JAVA, jQuery, JSP, ANGULARJS, AJAX, WEB DESIGN, MONGODB, NOSQL