Recruiter Coordinator Recruiter Coordinator Recruiter Coordinator - SUN CLOUD LLC Seattle, WA Work Experience Recruiter Coordinator SUN CLOUD LLC June 2017 to Present * Performed resume reviews, converted candidate résumés into hiring criteria templates by extracting key data points, such as skills and years of experience.  * Coordinated with candidates and interviewers to schedule phone screens and online interviews.  * Provided weekly hiring pipeline summaries to hiring managers.  * Provided administrative assistance to two executives by managing calendars, coordinating meetings, and taking notes. Administrative Assistant Web Developer DATALAKES LLC July 2015 to May 2017 * Provided administrative assistance to two executives by managing calendars, coordinating meetings, and taking notes.  * Coordinated and scheduled interviews for hiring managers to fill contractor and developer positions.  * Converted candidate résumés into hiring criteria templates by extracting key data points, such as skills and years of experience.  * Wrote and regularly updated web content by interviewing executives and reviewing meeting notes.  * Developed a responsive website by modifying a Bootstrap template to optimize user experience across devices with different size screens, from smart phones to laptops.  * Created user interface using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript; utilized Bootstrap and CSS for appropriate positioning and style of elements. Freelance Web Developer June 2014 to June 2015 * Communicated with clients to understand their needs; created websites using templates, structured sites for maximum effectiveness, and maintained very quick turnaround times.  * Selected appropriate themes and colors; retrieved stock images and scaled to fit using Photoshop.  * Coordinated with writers and clients to gather website content.  * Provided ongoing updates to web pages for crowd-sourced movie to ensure accurate sponsor details. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering JAWAHARLAL NEHRU TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY Skills DATA ENTRY, FILE MANAGEMENT, TYPING, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, WORD, MAC, TIME MANAGEMENT, SCHEDULING Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kalyanimasetty