Sr.IOS Developer Sr.IOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.IOS Developer - Momar Apps Orlando, FL • Around 10+ years of IT experience and IOS application development experience.  • Objective-C and Xcode experience with Cocoa Touch, XCTesting and XCUITesting.  • Swift experience (latest version 4.2).  • Updated knowledge of Xcode (9 & 10) and iOS (10, 11 & 12).  • Experienced with Agile, Waterfall, and Test-Driven Development and BDD SDLCs.  • Working Experience with SVN, Git.  • Experienced with code version tools Github, Git lab and Bitbucket.  • Experienced with continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD) using Jenkins automated software.  • Experience in Project Management Tools RTC, JIRA and QC.  • Familiar with deploying applications to App store using Distribution profile.  • Involved in full product life cycle from design and development to deployment.  • Worked with Google Analytics, Fabric, Flurry Analytics and Site catalyst frameworks.  • Experience in service virtualization using API Mocker and LISA tools.  • Working knowledge of Unit and Automated testing using Test Flight, UI Automation and XCTest, XCUITest framework.  • Experienced with using GCD and NSOperationQueue for Multithreading.  • Efficient local storage of data using Core Data, SQLite, NSUserDefaults, and Plist files.  • Practiced in building efficient code using encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, delegates, and Extensions, KVO, Notifications.  • Developed native based iPhone and iPad applications and knowledge of hybrid app development.  • Familiar with UI design implementation and strong Auto Layout skills using Visual Format Language for Storyboards and XIB creation.  • Knowledge of HTML5, CSS and Front-End design/development.  • Complete understanding of Object-Oriented Features (Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation).  • Experienced in XML and JSON Parsing with NSXMLParser, JSONSerialisation and Codable.  • Extensive knowledge of Core Location services, AVFoundation, UIKit and other Apple frameworks.  • Developed and implemented application design patterns based on MVC, Singleton and others.  • Experienced in all aspects of iPhone & iPad application development including designing for all types of screen sizes and orientations.  • Created documentation with extensive pragma marks and code comments.  • Multithreading and thread synchronization.  • Observed best practice standards in Objective-C/Swift.  • Provided the overall design and structure to the application and ensured the adequacy defined Developed modules for iPhone program applications and configurations.  • Identified API/Framework providers and recommended the development methodologies and frameworks for the project.  • Anticipated on Mobile technological evolutions and identified the technologies that would be used for the project.  • Enforced compliance with coding guidelines using code reviews and established design/coding guidelines and best practices.  • Capable to Coach, facilitate, solve work problems, and participate in the work of the team.  • Report to the supervisor periodically on team and individual work accomplishments, problems, progress in mastering tasks and work processes, and individual and team training needs.  • Assisted the project manager in estimating project costs and efforts, Provides technical advice and guidance to the project manager.  • Quick learner, excellent analytical, design and problem-solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.IOS Developer Momar Apps - Orlando, FL July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Project managed with Agile/SCRUM methodology, code delivered in 2-week Sprints.  • Strong Working knowledge on Swift 4.0 and 4.2 through the project and experienced many improvements over Objective -C.  • Gathered requirements for how the application should look and built the application accordingly from the Design and Architect team.  • Developed and managed user stories while providing status updates to Agile Scrums.  • Used GitHub to pull/push the code and make changes to it. Review and provide comments for the Pull Request and Daily interaction with the version tools.  • Developed the app using iOS frameworks, Alamofire, Observable, Encrypted Core Data, CoreGraphics, SQLCipher Frameworks.  • Worked on the iOS concepts like BLE (Bluetooth), Camera, Core Data, AutoLayout constraints, Storyboards.  • Worked on the BLE devices (multiple knee braces) to show the device related information like real time steps, Angle, Flexion, Extension, Activity time and private data.  • Strictly followed MVC design patterns for smooth application performance and secured user credentials for better user interaction with the app.  • Integrated the basic Login and Forgot PIN pages and stored the password in keychain.  • Added animation between UIViews for smooth transitioning and better user experience.  • Implemented custom UIViews, Table Views, TableViewCell, UITabBar, and UINavigationController for easy navigation of the app.  • Implemented the Hamburger Menu Navigation on the Dashboard screen and created the root navigation to dashboard screen for menu list.  • Utilized Storyboards with Auto Layout constraints to ensure graceful orientation handling on all devices from iPhone 5 onwards but mainly for iPAD in landscape mode.  • Worked on integrating with backed services and parsed JSON responses.  • Worked on Messages, used for thread communication between the Patient and Doctor.  • Integrated the Videos from the backed service and listed them in a table view, downloaded in the background with status indicator for the patient based on the userID.  • SQLiteCipher is used to store data in the database and make the data to be Encrypted safely.  • Deployed the TestFlight API builds to get user logs and crash reports and will push each build with a specific feature for testing.    Environment: Xcode 10 and latest, Swift 4.0 and 4.2, Pods, Alamofire Framework, Observable Framework, Box SDK, SQLCipher Framework, Encrypted Core Data Framework, Charts, Animations, JSON, Storyboard, CoreGraphics, AutoLayout Constraints, GitHub, Keychain, BLE devices, iPad Device, TestFlight. Sr. IOS Developer Infoway Group - Dublin, CA February 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Project managed with Agile/SCRUM methodology, code delivered in 2-week Sprints.  • Strong Working knowledge on Swift 3.0, 4.0 through the project and experienced many improvements over Objective -C.  • Gathered requirements for how the application should look and built the application accordingly from the Design and Product team.  • Worked on Memory management and ARC (Automatic Reference Counting).  • Executed and Monitored standards for user interfaces, page design and iOS development.  • Developed and managed user stories while providing status updates to Agile Scrums.  • Fixed bugs when notified or documented by QA in bug tracking system Jira.  • Conducted Memory management testing by using Static Analyzer and Instruments.  • Worked on the iOT application using the BLE features and camera feature for bar code scanning.  • Used the React Native for combining HTML and JavaScript on breaking down large application to smaller component-based solutions.  • Developed the feature of Nvidia Hub used only for the smart TV's.  • Review and provide comments for the Pull Request / Merge Requests and Daily interaction with the version tools.  • Worked on integrating with back end services using existing frameworks and worked on the Samsung Analytic Events.  • Worked on the iOS concepts like accessibility, custom transactions, core Data, Auto Layout and storyboards.  • Developed the App using CocoaTouch frameworks like UIKit, Foundation, CoreGraphics Frameworks.  • Used GitHub and GitLab to pull code and make changes in the code and push the code back and expertise in device firmware testing.  • Invoked RestFull Web services using NSURLSession and Parsed JSON responses usingNSJSON Serialization.  • Utilized Storyboards with Auto Layout constraints to ensure graceful orientation handling on all devices from iPhone 5 onwards.  • Multi-Threading, memory management and caching mechanisms specific to mobile devices.  • Performed regression and unit testing with XCTest UI Testing framework within Xcode.  • Worked with Backend team to display the correct data format in devices.  • Incorporated Categories, Protocols, User defaults, notification center, localization bundles, custom fonts, attributed strings.  • Tested the UI flow with every SmartThing's devices and on the alarm devices.    Environment: Objective-C, Xcode 9 to latest 9.3, Cocoa Touch, Foundation framework, SmartKit framework, iOS SDK, UIKit, CoreGraphics, Swift 3, 4.0, Push Notifications, XCTest cases, OCF Cloud manager, AWS, NSLog, Storyboard, Auto Layout constraints, JSON, REST, GitHub, GitLab, XML, SQLite. IOS Developer AT&T - Middletown, NJ December 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Gathered requirements for how the application should look and built the application accordingly.  • Worked extensively with Objective -C and Cocoa frameworks.  • Developed the App using CocoaTouch frameworks like UIKit, Foundation, CoreGraphics Frameworks.  • Strong Working knowledge on Swift 2.2 and older versions through the project and experienced many improvements over Objective -C.  • Added animation between UI Views for smooth transitioning and better user experience.  • Implemented custom UI Views, Table Views, Table View Cell, UI Tab Bar, and UI Navigation Controller for easy navigation of the app.  • Working Knowledge on libraries specific to Swift like Alamofire and implemented bridging header from objective-c to Swift.  • Worked with Instruments tool extensively at the end of development cycle to minimize memory leaks and assure overall application stability.  • Integrated a web-based content made with HTML5 on a Native application using UI Web View.  • Worked on React Native core concepts to build responsive designs that work on different device sizes, animations, notifications.  • Web service calls by including XML parsing and JSON parsing in the project.  • Implemented Push Notifications and Local Notifications and Fixed bugs are documented by QA team.  • Multi-Threading NS Operation Queue and Blocks/GCD to add high performance to the apps is a huge plus.  • Used GitHub to pull code and make changes in the code and push the code back and expertise in device firmware testing.  • SQLite is used to store data in the project and TestFlight API is used to get user logs and crash reports.  • Experienced with Unit and Integration Testing Framework such as KIF which allows for easy automation of ios Apps.  • Incorporated the Push Notification feature using APNS, to notify the user when any file operations were done.  • Refactored UI for additional functionalities that were added to the app.  • Responsible for service Integration Development and Testing.  • Updated and implemented 3rd party APIs to integrate with social networks.  • Addressed Memory leaks by using Instruments and fixed bugs for Memory management issues.    Environment: Objective-C, Xcode 6/8, Cocoa Touch, Foundation framework, UIKit, CoreGraphics, Swift 2.2, Push Notifications, JSON, GitHub, XML, SQLite. IOS Application Developer State Street Bank - Boston, MA August 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Objective C, and Cocoa Frameworks, which includes UIKit Foundation.  • Implemented Maps using MapKit and Core Location to display nearby branches and agents.  • Added UIGestureRecognizers to simulate carousel effect during navigation between view Controllers.  • Invoked RestFull Web services using NSURLSession and Parsed JSON responses usingNSJSONSerialization.  • Implemented NSOperationQueue and NSURLConnection to integrate, synchronize with enterprise backend and database.  • Worked on Memory management and ARC (Automatic Reference Counting).  • Strictly followed MVC design patterns for smooth application performance and secured user credentials for better user interaction with the app.  • Created Network Manager to handle the service calls through AFNetworking.  • Used specific XML schema for app's (Bluetooth Low Energy) BLE 4.0 profile and use Core Bluetooth Framework APIs for the app to connect different devices of Apple.  • Incorporated the Push Notification feature using APNS, to notify the user when any file operations were done.  • Incorporated Categories, Protocols, User defaults, notification center, localization bundles, custom fonts, attributed strings.  • Implemented Auto Layout constraints to ensure graceful orientation handling and visualize same in different screen sizes.    Environment: Objective C, Xcode 6.3, Cocoa touch, Cocoa frameworks, AV Foundation work, AF Networking, MapKit, Core location, iOS 7.0/8.0/ 9.0, Mac OS X. Web Developer EBP Maroc - Casablanca, MA February 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Planning, designing and implementing of complete Websites.  • Design with standards compliant code with emphasis on browser compatibility, accessibility, and search engine optimization.  • Updating the existing Website of client's as per the request.  • Cleaned up and rewrote front end HTML and CSS to meet validation requirements.  • Responsible for creating graphics like logos and icons by using Photoshop and Fireworks.  • Utilized an expert knowledge of JavaScript, HTML and CSS to deliver advanced GUI and controls.  • Dynamic Website design and programming using PHP, MySQL, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Inspect HTML, modify style and layout and debug advanced JavaScript using Mozilla Firebug.  • Produced JavaScript to automatically disable selected links until a given activation date.  • Group Manager in creating System Diagrams, Flow-Chart, and Database Diagrams using VISIO.  • Design Database tables, stored procedures, views, and functions per business requirement from clients.  • Normalized database tables and performed extensive query optimization.  • Wrote MySQL Stored Procedures and Views for fetching of data from multiple tables.  • Design and Develop custom animated banner templates using Flash, and jQuery.  • Validating all the User's Inputs through Java Scripts and Regular Expressions.    Environment: Adobe Creative Suite, Photoshop, HTML/DHTML/XHTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript and jQuery Integration, MySQL, Mozilla Firebug, Microsoft VISIO and Microsoft Outlook. Education Bachelor's Skills Android, Ios, Ipad, Iphone, Objective-c Certifications/Licenses Driver's License