Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer K?ne‘ohe, HI Innovative and industrious graduate with a Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering seeking to join a dynamic company to grow and expand in the field of Software Engineering/Development. Effective communicator with strong interpersonal skills and the ability to work cohesively with a team or individually in support of project/operational objectives. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer INSOLID - Honolulu, HI July 2016 to Present Developed a company website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript by assessing requirements and needs. Improved user traffic and average time spent on the site by applying Search Engine Optimization techniques. Ensured optimal up-time and usability by performing regular maintenance and publishing updates to the company website. Project Engineer Critchfield Pacific, Inc. - Honolulu, HI September 2017 to January 2018 Spearheaded company’s upscale project by coordinating with clients, field staff and project management team to ensure deadlines were met. Streamlined company workflow by organizing and renaming files in the company drives. IT Support Specialist Occidental Underwriters of Hawaii, Ltd. - Honolulu, HI July 2014 to May 2016 Reinforced and supported operations by conducting regular maintenance on computers and equipment. Managed staff satisfaction and needs by troubleshooting and mitigating technical issues. Education BS in Computer Engineering University of Hawai'i at Manoa - Honolulu, HI 2011 to 2016 Skills C (2 years), C++ (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office, HTML (1 year), CSS (1 year), Matlab (Less than 1 year), Git (1 year), Front End Awards Dean's List Award 2015-12 GPA of 3.5 or better for the Fall 2015 semester Additional Information Intermediate Proficient: Mandarin Chinese  Eagle Scout, Boy Scouts of America (BSA)  Student member, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)