iOS SME iOS SME iOS Developer Moultrie, GA I have focused on iOS development using swift for the last 4 years, but started in web development. Work Experience iOS SME MOBILE APPS COMPANY - Remote May 2018 to May 2019 • Mentor Jr developers that are moving to their first project    • Quickly evaluate the concepts the developer needs for success and provide sample projects and code snippets to explain concepts.    • Assist with problematic defects or feature creation. iOS Development Consultant MOBILE APPS COMPANY - Columbus, OH June 2016 to April 2018 Smart Fusion - iOS    • Developed various pages and UI elements used throughout the app using XIBs for UI  creation for collection/table view cell.    • Worked with size classes to handle screen sizes from iPad to iPhones while managing the various constraints using priorities.    • Integrated Javascript and jQuery library, using WKWebView and native  UIElements(UIButtons and UIViews) to create a hybrid feature; serialized, and uploaded the created HTML canvas to backend.    • Collaborated with team of backend developers to synchronize data between mobile apps  and web backend to also be displayed across web frontend using RESTful endpoints and JSON.    • Wrote a multitude of unit tests to validate the business logic in the application.    • Created POCs in Swift to prototype app functionality for decisions on future feature  integration.  • Completed extensive testing and bug fixing using log statements, breakpoints, LLDB  statements, and Instruments as per QA feedback    • Project code stored in Git repository for version control, and using Jenkins CI.    • Project managed using Agile methodologies    • Shared mobile application features and bug features with another mobile developer.    Smart Fusion - Android  • Maintained Android project using Android SDK, Android Studio, and Gradle    • Implemented UI elements for new features for Android project    • Bug fixing using log statements and breakpoints as per QA feedback    3rd Rail Politics - iOS and Android    • https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/3rd-rail-politics/id1133210410?mt=8    • https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.thirdrailpolitics.android&hl=en_US    • Created POCs in Swift and Java for future app functionality and features    • Developed multiple views and UIElements used through out both apps    • Used AFNetworking and OkHttp to perform background network tasks    • SQLite and Core Data used to save objects parsed from JSON    • Wrote unit and UI tests to validate business logic and functionality.    Technologies Used: XCode 7+, Android Studio, iOS 8+ SDK, Android SDK, Swift 3.0+, UIKit,  XIBs, Size Classes, Unit Testing, Git, NSLog, Breakpoints, LLDB, Instruments, Espresso, GIT,  CocoaPods, Terminal, Jenkins WEB DEVELOPER GLOBAL SPORTSMEN NETWORK September 2014 to April 2016 Developed a Roku channel using bright script https://channelstore.roku.com/details/64551/  global-sportsman's-network    • Provided SOAP service using PHP    • Created many UI elements using CSS, jQuery, and vanilla javascript    • Leveraged AJAX, Node.js, and PHP to create instant messaging feature for social network web  application.    • Developed many RESTful endpoints with PHP backend    • Wrote numerous SQL scripts to pull information from database to be displayed on web pages.    Technologies Used: PHP 7, HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery, Bitbucket Education B.A. in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Alpharetta, GA 2015 Skills Databases (Less than 1 year), Html (3 years), Java (2 years), Javascript (3 years), Mvc (2 years), Mvvm (1 year), Mysql (2 years), Objective c (2 years), Soap (1 year), testing (3 years), SQL, Swift (3 years) Links https://github.com/JacobBoyd Additional Information Skills  Languages, Databases, andFormats    Swift, Java, Objective C, Core Data*, SQLite, MySQL, RESTful, SOAP JavaScript, HTML, jQuery    Methodologies  Agile, MVC, MVVM, Test Driven Development, SCRUM and RETRO meetings, Blocks/Closures, Continuous  Integration, Delegation, Singleton, KVO, Push Notifications, QA testing