Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer San Antonio, TX Experienced in designing, developing, and implementing software applications, websites, web applications, and database objects for complex information systems. Expertise in operational software maintenance and enhancements for a large (real time) data processing center. Strong background in creating technical documentation, manuals, and other forms of software tutorials. Familiar with building computers, software installations, account setup, and other general computer issues. Fast learner and adaptive to fast changing environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer CUTEK - San Antonio, TX February 2017 to February 2018 Used PowerOn/Symitar to develop and maintain Credit Union software for several clients. Took direct part in maintaining a good working relationship with the clients through managing expectations, fulfilling projects in a timely manner, and keeping a consistent open communication.  • Worked directly with clients to create a clear understanding of the software requirements.  • Created tools for front end bankers as well as for other developers.  • Created manuals for complex software use or gave brief video tutorials to the clients directly.  • Maintained, debugged, improved, and developed software components as requested. Oracle Systems Developer Associate Accenture Federal Services - San Antonio, TX April 2015 to July 2016 Developed and maintained back and front end payment-to-procurement (P2P) applications for the Accenture Federal Services (AFS) client, wrote and maintained highly detailed documentation for both AFS and client use, and assisted other developers and testers with personal knowledge and notes. Developed software primarily using PL/SQL, Java, and BPEL.  • Built in a complex PL/SQL ecosystem in collaboration with a quickly interchanging development team.  • Modified, created, and deployed WAR files. Used Jenkins for build and test.  • Created and maintained TD (technical design) and FD (functional design) documentation with for new and existing programs and database objects.  • Assisted testing and deployment teams in laying out testing procedures, locating bugs, creating instruction manuals, and providing clarity on code. Web Technologist III Object Technologies Information Systems - Stennis Space Center, MS February 2008 to April 2011 Designed and developed client/server applications for the National Data Buoy Center (NDBC) website, automated data quality and configuration maintenance of NDBC weather stations, and supported weather and ocean data analysts in their daily tasks. Programmed using PHP, Perl, MySQL, XHTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery for both GUI and systems development. Programmed using C++, C, and Java for back-end database systems. Used Photoshop, Maptitude, and Google Maps to create and maintain website maps.  • Designed, developed, tested and implemented web applications with transactional databases for the configuration of weather stations that updates NDBC's main website (http://www.ndbc.noaa.gov).  • Introduced new functionality with JQuery to new and existing web applications for more responsive, dynamic and attractive web pages. Used AJAX for communication with the server and JQuery for manipulation of the Document Object Model (DOM).  • Completed assigned software support tickets within the release time frame and often ahead of schedule along with providing appropriate documentation required by Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) methodology resulting in 99.9% web site availability.  • Ensured 508, National Weather Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and Department of Commerce web site development and security compliance for all NDBC web pages. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Louisiana Tech University - Ruston, LA 2002 to 2007 Skills Java (3 years), C# (3 years), PHP (2 years), Javascript (4 years), Windows (10+ years), HTML (4 years), Symitar (1 year), Technical Writing (2 years), Database Management (2 years), Android (6 years), NET (2 years), jQuery (2 years), CSS (3 years), Unity (1 year), SQL (3 years), Programming (6 years) Additional Information Personal Project    Currently developing an asymmetric two player cooperative online multiplayer game for a VR player and a non-VR player. Using their unique actions and abilities, the players will compliment each other as they move through a gauntlet of obstacles. Uses Unity and C#.  • Working prototype and test environment for the two players.  • Various customizable drag-and-drop prefabs created with multiple uses for quick environment creation.  • Unique abilities for the VR and non-VR player to use in conjunction with each other.