Full Stack Software Developer Full Stack Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Software Developer - Metro Sports Inc Highly-skilled Full Stack .Net Developer with 5 years of experience in both Front-End and Back-End Web Application Design and has worked in various diverse hands-on projects with the implementation of Object-Oriented Design, Software Design Patterns, N-Tier Architecture, Onion Architecture, and Relational Database Design.  Highly-skilled knowledge of developing Web Application using ASP.NET Web API, ASP.NET MVC 5, Web Services, Windows Communication Foundation(WCF), and ASP.NET Web Forms.  Implemented CRUD operations through HTTP service both in Web API and ASP.NET MVC.  Proficiency in object-oriented programming language in Microsoft C# and C++.  Hands on experience in ADO.NET, Entity Framework, and LINQ design.  Hands on experience in Database design like Normalization, create Store Procedures, and User-Defined Functions using MS Sql Server.  Deep understanding in javascript, jQuery (Ajax), and Typescript.  Extensive knowledge of front-end design and development using HTML5, CSS3 4, javascript. Frequently used Bootstrap, Primeng, Angular Material, Font Awesome, and other third party Libraries.  Worked on projects consuming the RESTful Web API using Angular Services.  Expertise in Angular features like Routing, Data Binding, Directives, Page Loading, Component Communication, Dependency Injection, Service, HTTP server, Forms, and Exception Handling.  Solid understanding of testing software like Postman, Jasmine, and Karma.  Experienced in both Agile and Waterfall SDLC methodologies.  Experienced in Source and Version Control using Microsoft Azure DevOps and Git.  Responsible, detail-oriented as a Full Stack Developer, good at self-problem solving, understanding the requirement and fulfilling the expectations. Successful at on-time execution and delivery. Work Experience Full Stack Software Developer Metro Sports Inc - Stirling, NJ January 2018 to Present Metro Sport is an E-commerce which provides all kinds of swimming suits, goggles, apparel to teams and individuals. The project was aimed to replace the old Web Application, so that it can provide efficient ways for the customers to search and purchase. I was responsible for developing the web-based search and purchase system to allow customers to shop the swimming items online. Angular 6, ASP.NET Web API, and MS Sql Server are the technologies used in this project.    Roles and Responsibilities:  Experienced in front-end development using Angular 6, back-end using Web API, and Database Design.  Handled Front-end components using Angular 6, Bootstrap, HTML5, and CSS3.  Created UI pages with Angular Material and Angular Font Awesome.  Built the Account Login page using Validation, Authentication, Router Module, Route Guard, and Exception Handling.  Implemented Authentication and Authorization using local storage (token based).  Polished the Details page using Angular Material like Pagination and Filter.  Implemented form validation error messages, form reset, and search functions in components. Used Angular Dependency Injection.  Created Template-Driven Forms and Data-Biding to display the related items.  Deployed redirection links using Routing router navigation events to trace the events.  Built the Admin management pages with Angular Modules, Observable, and Services to implement the CRUD functionalities such as viewing Items, add, update, and delete tasks in front and back-end.  Built RESTful ASP.NET Web API services that support different function calls.  Deployed 4-layer structure for the project such as Data-Access-Layer, Repository-Layer, Data-Business-Layer, and UI-Layer.  Implemented Dependency Injection in Data-Business-Layer.  Created database using database first approach by Entity Framework.  Used Auto Mappers to map the Models and Controller.  Configured Postman to test the Web API functions.  Used GIT for source control and JIRA for project management.  Deployed Jasmine and Karma to do the Unit testing on Components and services methods.  Environment: Angular 6, Bootstrap, Angular Material, HTML5, CSS3, TypeScript, Web API, Microsoft C#, Microsoft Sql Server 2017, Entity Framework 6, Postman, GIT, JIRA, and Jasmine and Karma. Full Stack Application Developer Wines 'Til SoldOut - Pennsauken, NJ July 2016 to December 2017 WTSO.com (Wines 'Til Sold Out) is the leader in Wine Flash Sale sites with over 25 million bottles sold. The project is about Web Application that provides information about wines with an option to purchase. I worked as a Full Stack developer and was responsible for improving both customer and employee facing web applications and bugs fixes using ASP.NET framework Web API and Angular 4.    Roles and Responsibilities:  Contributed to front-end using Angular 4 and back-end using Web API.  Developed Front-end components using Angular 4, Bootstrap, Primeng, and Angular Font Awesome.  Improved the Login page using Reactive Form, Validation, Authentication, Authorization, Router Module, Routing Guard, and Exception Handling.  Implemented Authentication and Authorization using local storage (token based) for logging in Angular components.  Built the Details pages using Angular Material like Pagination, Filter Using Template-Driven Forms, and Data-Biding to display the related items.  Arranged navigation links using Routing (route parameters).  Coded the products display page with Angular Modules, Observable, Services to implement the CRUD  Functionalities such as viewing Items, add, update, and delete tasks both in front and back-end.  Built RESTful ASP.NET Web API services that support different function calls.  Improved the Database and Created Data-Access-Layer using Entity Framework.  Enabled the CORS by Microsoft.Owin.Cors.  Implemented the Authentication and Error Handling with Exception Filter.  Built Postman simulating page as the front-end to test the Web API functions.  Worked on the project using GIT source version control.  Used Jasmine and Karma to do the Unit testing on Components and services methods.  Environment: Angular 4, Bootstrap, Primeng, HTML5, CSS3, TypeScript, Web API, Miscrosoft C#, Microsoft Sql Server 2014, Entity Framework 6, Postman, GIT, and Jasmine and Karma. Web Developer Decusoft - Ramsey, NJ March 2015 to June 2016 Decusoft is a premier developer of configurable and web-based software solutions. This Web Application project focuses on the Employee Management System (EMS) so that the employer can manage the time, salary, bonus, work days projects distribution of employees efficiently. I worked on the COMPOSE project which is a specialized compensation software solution about login page, employees management page, bonus calculation page using ASP.NET MVC and MS Sql Server.    Roles and Responsibilities:  Designed Web Application using ASP.NET MVC 5 (Model-View-Controller) with ASP.NET Razor View Engine.  Generated data models in MVC using Entity Framework Database first Approach.  Implemented Onion Architecture by using Entity Framework, Generic Repository, and Unit of work pattern in project.  Created 4-layers such as Data-Access-layer, Repository, Data-Business-layer, and UI-layer. Implemented Repository pattern to isolate the DAL and to apply centrally managed consistent access rules and logic.  Implemented ASP.NET MVC routing using Convention-Based and Attribute-Based routing as well as routing with passing parameters.  Built the strongly typed Views and Controllers.  Used C# Partial Class for better distribution method and better code merge collaboration. Created dynamic amount of filter sliders with jQuery (Ajax).  Used jQuery (Ajax) to pass filtration data from front-end to back-end and display the data to view with JSON object.  Implemented Action Filter in controllers.  Created different ViewModels to manage the data in different views.  Used HTML5, CSS3, jQuery (Ajax), javascript, and Bootstrap to beautify the view and add animation.  Implemented Error Handler and Data annotation for login page and signup page to validate the input data.  Used NUnit for unit testing in C#.  Collaborated with other developers through Git source control tool. Experienced in Agile and Scrum based environment for project development. Used Jasmine and Karma to do the Unit testing on MVC.  Environment: Microsoft C#, ASP.NET MVC, MS Sql Server 2014, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery(Ajax), javascript, Bootstrap. Entity Framework, GIT, Postman, and Jasmine and Karma. Web Developer Hetony Inc - West Orange, NJ January 2014 to February 2015 Hetony Inc was founded by a group of electric motor experts who are specialized in the designing the motor with robust and efficient features at the cost effective budget utilizing the latest motor technology. This project is to build up the website for displaying the kinds of motors and providing the solutions for the customers using  ASP.NET WCF and MS Sql Server 2012.    Roles and Responsibilities:  Designed database using T-SQL, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Views Indexes, Views, Triggers, and Error Handling.  Designed the application architecture and flowcharts based on business requirement. Implemented the N-Tier Architecture.  Worked on ADO.NET Data Reader, Data adapter, Data Set, and Data View to provide connection to the database.  Used LINQ to fulfill the functionality of searching by different categories Styled application using Bootstrap for user interface.  Used ViewBag, TempData, and ViewModel to display data. Displayed result in the table format.  Implemented model bindings to retrieve data from user input to controller.  Created the front-end view to display data and fulfilled an auto-complete function.  Developed WCF in an SOA Architecture, participating in architecture definition, coding standards, and naming conventions.  Set up required functions in Service Layer with Data Annotations.  Used Partial Class for code maintainability and further merging convincing. Implemented host layer for hosting services.  Created SoapUI to do Unit testing on WCF methods. Used Git for version controls and code merges.  Able to coordinate and provide support within a team environment with problem solving and strong analytical skills.  Environment: MS C#, ASP.NET WCF, ADO.NET, MS Sql Server 2012, HTML5, CSS3, SoapUI, and GIT. Education Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Science New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ Skills ADO, DATABASE, ADO.NET, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER 2012 Additional Information Skills  Programming: Microsoft C#, C/C++  Web: HTML5, CSS3 4, JavaScript, jQuery(Ajax), TypeScript, Angular 4/6, Bootstrap, Primeng, Angular Material  .Net: Web API, ASP.NET MVC 5, Web Service, WCF, ASP.NET Web Forms, ADO.NET, LINQ, Entity Framework  Database: Microsoft Sql Server 2012 2014 2016 2017  IDE: Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code  Test: Postman, Unit Testing Jasmine, Karma  Others: GIT, Azure DevOps, JSON, XML, Slack