Sr Full stack .Net Developer Sr Full stack .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Full stack .Net Developer - Fifth Third Bank Cincinnati, OH • Around 9 years of professional IT experience in full Software development life cycle (SDLC) environment involving Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Logical &Physical Architectural Modeling of applications with Design, Development, Testing, coding, Implementation and Production Support, Reporting along with Delivery management.  • Advanced experience in developing Web and Client/Server Applications based on Microsoft .NET Technologies and expertise in implementing N-Tier Architecture.  • Expert in designing and developing web and windows based applications using MVC, ASP.NET, and C #, Visual Basic VB.NET, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, Enterprise Library, Angular JS, LINQ, SOAP, Web Services, AJAX Control Tool Kit, IIS, XML and XSLT.  • Experience in designing web pages with HTML, JavaScript, CSS, HTML 5, CSS3 and JQuery in a hand-coded environment.  • Sound knowledge on Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Concepts including Inheritance, Abstraction and Polymorphism.  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process which includes Designing, Developing, Unit/System Testing, Coding, and defect correction, Bug Fixing, Deployment and Production Support.  • Experienced in creating and consuming web Services and also gained experience in creating web services using Windows Communications Foundation.  • Experience working with IIS (Internet Information Services), Application Pools, Active Directory.  • Extensive front end and backend development experience working with .Net Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, Visual Studio.NET 2012/2010/2008/2005. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Full stack .Net Developer Fifth Third Bank - Cincinnati, OH July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete development life cycle (SDLC) by providing valued services to the developers, clients, other team members and the Business users by closely understanding the requirements.  • Involved in developing web applications using ASP.NET MVC.  • Followed Scrum and Test-Driven Development Methods in Agile Scrum Methodology to produce high Quality software.  • Designed Single Page Applications (SPA) with dynamic User Interface via Angular 2 by developing new user-facing features, using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Typescript, JQuery, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, WebAPI, and SQL Server. Experience in working in Agile Development Environment, used Jira for work tracking.  • Experienced in Angular testing frameworks Karma & Jasmine to unit test components & mock services.  • Developed various external websites for the pharmacy.  • Designed and developed front end using JavaScript, HTML, JQuery and AngularJS etc.  • Developed single page applications using React JS.  • Developed the application using C#, ASP.NET MVC, AngularJS, Knockout JS and WEB API.  • Extensively used JavaScript and JQuery for client-side validation.  • Maintained and enhanced B2B website application using ASP.NET and VB.NET  • Worked and collaborated with the team and helped the team in implementation ideas.  • Researched on various technologies to best suit the requirements.  • Created WCF Services responsible for communicating and providing real time data from integrated server to Client Application. Used Connectors to create automated workflows with Azure Logic Apps  • Web application development experience in n-Tier architectures using ASP.Net.  • Developed web applications using Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology  • Strong experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and methodologies.  • Created the Master Pages for the Branding the website using SharePoint Designer.  • Implemented client-side application to invoke SOAP and Restful Web Services.  • Used SharePoint Object Model for developing the Web Parts with C#.NET as the language for development to meet the user requirements.  • Used JSON Serializer in data contract of WCF to generate the data in JSON format  • XML and REST micro services were used to exchange structured and typed information with help of web service over the Internet.  • Involved in requirement gathering and analysis, designing and developing the application using Site core CMS and ASP.NET MVC  • Utilized current and upcoming trends and practices to create the application using Site core CMS and ASP.NET MVC, JQuery and AJAX.  • Created both unit tests and end-to-end for completed feature work using Jasmine and Karma, as well as using Cypress or a Selenium testing frameworks.  • Implemented Microservices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent  • Used and created Silverlight in various applications.  • Involved in developing applications using Angular 2 - Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc. Used filters while coding in Angular 2/4.  • Implemented Elastic Search in the project.  • Content Management Systems Knowledge with e-commerce integration into CMS Experience with Linux/Apache/MySQL (Database Management).  • Worked extensively on Win frames.  • Manage various AWS/AZURE environment for provisioning of Linux servers and services implemented by the providers.  • Developed Automation script using selenium web driver to execute the test cases for integration testing  • Implemented Couch base server inserting, storing and manipulating the data.  • Analyzed business, functional, and technical requirements to make sure project met expectations.  • Cleaned up and enhanced admin pages in web application using ASP.NET and VB.NET  • Error logging using Exceptional Handling in T-SQL and SSIS.  • Worked on SSIS Package, DTS Import/Export for transferring data from Database (Oracle and Text format data) to SQL Server.  • Engaged in White Box Testing Techniques such as Unit Testing, Integration Testing, with Nunit Framework. Implemented other third-party library to optimize the code such as Auto mapper.  • Maintaining the version control of the project in Team Foundation Server (TFS) by merging the module developed with latest version in TFS.  • Wrote triggers for sending Emails after to clients after any kind of transaction has been made  • Implemented the Microsoft azure Development and Deployment.  • Involved in retrieving data using LINQ to SQL and LINQ to Objects with ASP.NET, worked with the database using LINQ to SQL.  • Implement JUNIT Testing strategy for unit test and make sure quality and performance  of the application with the mentioned metrics.  • Worked and mentored other team members to help them understand walk through the situation.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the Mongo DB for the application on devices Used Mongoose API to access the Mongo DB from NodeJS.  • Responsible for enhancement, bug fixes, developing Microservices using .NET Core framework.  • By using Mongo DB .NET Driver, we build alternative or experimental high-level APIs.  • Wrote SQL Queries, T-SQL queries and Stored Procedures to maintain proper data flow.  • Experience with BPM and Work flow concepts. Designed and executed test scripts in Ranorex and Selenium.  • Resolved production support issues and closed in time on a day to day basis.  • Provided product support and First Tier, Second Tier support to ensure high quality delivery of the project and customer satisfaction by working with customers, and team members closely.  • Conducted Knowledge Transfer sessions for the Junior Team members.    Environment: Visual Studio 2015, C#. NET, ASP.NET MVC 5.0, .NET Core 2.1,VB.Net, ADO.NET Entity framework, LINQ, WebAPI, WCF, SQL Server 2014, T-SQL, SSRS, SSIS, React JS, Nunit, MVVM, Agile software methodology , Web Forms, Razor, Agile Microsoft Azure, AWS,HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular 2, Site core 8,HTTP, REST, SOAP, AJAX, XML, Nunit, Team Foundation Server 2015, IIS, Azure. Net Developer DaVita - Denver, CO June 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development of application with full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from inception to peak/delivery.  • Developed complex web forms using ASP.Net server-side scripting with C#, .NET Framework 3.0/3.5.  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) using Master Pages, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and Custom Controls.  • Used AJAX on web pages to retrieve data in asynchronous mode, update portion of web page without loading (Post Back) the whole page.  • Web form's input validation using the ASP.Net Input Validation Controls and dynamic features using Ajax, JavaScript and MS Enterprise Library.  • Created complex Web forms, win forms, presentation layer and various server controls using ASP.NET and C#.  • Used JavaScript to enhance the dynamics and interactive features of web page by allowing user to perform calculations, validate form inputs, add special effects, Customize selections, Confirmation etc.  • Created and deployed Web Services using ASP.NET, SOAP and XML for Pulling Customer Service Records.  • Modified Web Services to interact with the other applications and exposed them using SOAP and HTTP.  • Worked on Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) services to inter-communicate between the processes via SOAP messages and also worked on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) for developing application.  • Client-side scripting included JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, and CSS.  • Created ASP.NET User Controls and custom controls for code reusability and to reduce the complexity of user interface design.  • Developed, Coded and Reviewed Sitecore CMS web programs.  • Created Data Templates with Standard values in Sitecore CMS.  • Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing for Junit.  • Developed Data access layer using ADO.net Objects and C#.  • Used Entity Framework Code First approach for the Data Access Layer for the ASP.NET MVC 4.0 application using HTML5 and Razor view.  • Extensively used LINQ to Objects to query the objects based on requirement.  • Created SQL queries, Stored procedures, Views, Triggers and implemented SQL queries in c#  • Evaluated database performance and performed maintenance duties such as tuning, backup and restoration.  • Implemented SQL Server Reporting Service to generate various reports and charts for customers.  • Designed Use case documentation, test cases.  • Designed Web Forms using ASP.NET, C# and used Agile ALM methodology and scrum to implement the weekly sprints.  • Performed Code review and Unit testing for better performance.    Environment: .Net Framework 3.0/3.5, ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, WCF, AJAX, Agile software methodology, JavaScript, Web Forms WF, XML, HTML, Internet Information Services (IIS), Team Foundation Server, SQL Server 2008/2005, Visual Studio.NET, Web Service, Windows Services. Sr Full stack .Net Developer J.B. Hunt - Lowell, AR May 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement Analysis, gathering, Low Level Design, Coding and Integration.  • Responsible for designing and developing the Application using ASP.Net MVC, Razor Syntaxes and Razor view engine.  • In-depth knowledge of front-end web development using Angular2 Framework, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Designed Single Page Applications (SPA) with dynamic User Interface via Angular 2 by developing new user-facing features, using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Typescript, JQuery, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, Web API, and SQL Server.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Responsible for making AJAX Calls for the UI Interactions to the Controller Actions using JQuery and getting the Data back as JSON and parsing it onto the UI.  • Created Azure Web Application projects, updated and deployed ASP.NET Web apps, Web Jobs using visual studio, GitHub and Azure Resource Manager  • Responsible for developing the Data Access Layer (Model) using ADO.Net Entity Framework Model, and C#.  • Developed the portal pages in ASP.Net 2.0 using Master Page, Themes & skins to maintain the consistent look and feel throughout the application for internal application.  • Implemented CRUD functionality with Entity framework in ASP.NET MVC and implemented sorting, filtering and paging with Entity framework in MVC.  • Developed Microservices for each required business functional element and was implemented using Microservices as independent components.  • Designed Front-End Web Forms, web page used ASP.NET Razor View as a view engine and HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JQuery, Angular 2.  • Responsible for writing the Actions in the Controllers which implement the Business Rules and which act as a mediator between UI (View) and Database (Model).  • Used Source Control Tools such as Team Foundation Server (TFS) and maintain a Repository of the Application.  • Leveraged WCF mechanisms like seasonings, Instance management, and concurrency to make our services more robust and scalable.  • Wrote back-end tests with PHP Unit and front-end tests with Cypress.io.  • Experience utilizing tools in N-tier and Microservices architecture applications.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using MVC 5.0, DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS and JQuery UI.  • Developed n-tier distributed .NET applications using Web Forms, Win Forms.  • Proficient in Model View Control (MVC) design pattern, Model-View-View Model (MVVM) design Pattern, Team Foundation Server (TFS) and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Responsible for designing and developing the database objects like Tables, Views, and Complex T-SQL Store Procedures involving Joins and using Temporary Tables, UDF (User Defined Functions).  • Used POSTMAN and Advanced Rest Client for testing WEB API Post and Get Methods using JSON objects.  • Used third party library to optimize the design of web page such as Telerik UI, Kendo UI.  • Involved in modifications to the XML requests and response as per the Business Requirements.  • Created unit and integration test procedures for existing web application, SSIS routines and SSRS reports.  • System test planning and Unit testing using the Microsoft Unit testing.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) library.  • Tested applications using Nunit for C#, Postman for Restful API, Jasmine as testing framework and Karma as runner tool for Angular.  • Ability to create a new website and maintain an existing Sitecore site using ASP.NET web frameworks  • Implemented, tested and monitored Microservices in the datacenter cloud environments for Cisco-Jasper IOT Platform. Developed Applications Using Ruby, React JS, Clojure  • Strong Knowledge on working with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Web API, Restful services, WCF and other Web Services technologies (WSDL, SOAP, etc.), JSON, XML, XSL, and Serialization.  • Involved in daily and weekly scrum meetings to discuss various aspects of the code related to individual modules.  • Used LINQ to SQL and LINQ to Objects for retrieving the data efficiently.  • Migrated existing source control system to GIT, moved build system from TFS to VSTS in Azure.  • Written stored procedures for Document DB and Mongo DB in JavaScript.  • Experienced in creating test cases in Nunit and MOQ Testing.  • Involved in integrating .NET Controls into Sitecore CMS  • Involved In testing using Client-side code using Swagger UI. Handled Shared Database in Microservices architecture.  • Expand user interface test automation using Selenium, Ranorex and other similar tools.  • Integrate Azure Active Directory for all user authentication/authorization and organization profiles.  • Involved in modifications of various projects related to Service Desk like Configurations Application, Service Desk Web Application and Service Desk Reports, and successfully deployed to Production.  • Performed Unit Testing and also automated testing using Selenium.  • Tested the code developed to ensure it accurately captured the existing business processes.  • Provided ongoing troubleshooting, defect and enhancements    Environment: ASP.NetMVC5.0, Visual Studio 2015, C#. NET, VB.NET ,Umbraco, ASP.NET MVC 5.0, ADO.NET Entity framework, LINUX/UNIX, IOT, LINQ, WebAPI, WCF, SQL Server 2014, MVVM, T-SQL, SSRS, Ranorex ,Swagger, POSTMAN, SSIS, Kentico, Web Forms, MVVM, VB.NET, React JS, Razor, Microservices, DevExpress, Telerik UI, HTML5, CSS3, Document DB, Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular 2, ETL, HTTP, Microsoft VSTS, REST, SOAP, AJAX, XML, Nunit, Team Foundation Server 2015, IIS, Azure. Net Developer HSBC - New York, NY April 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Analysis, Design and Development.  • Analysis and design for the enhancement of the system.  • Handling Production issues and modifying the code according to the requirement.  • Developed a VBA macro in an Excel workbook to generate a bid on a drilling contract as a complex. Formatted a Word document based on data in the Excel workbook and other predefined criteria.  • Developed C# code for the project.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed Junit tests for every single piece of functionality.  • Engaged in development of web pages using ASP.NET, HTML, CSS and UI enhancement coding.  • Designed and created the database for the tool.  • Programmed ADO.NET for communication between application and the SQL Server.  • Wrote stored procedures to handle data manipulations using T-SQL.  • Wrote test cases and performed regression testing.  • Giving the production support and maintenance.  • Bug fixing based on issue generated by the client.  • Involved in Unit & Functional Testing.    Environment: VisualStudio.Net 2003, .Net Framework 1.1, C#, ASP.Net, VBA, ADO.Net, SQL Server 2005, IIS 5.0 CSS and VSS. Web Developer Taproot Foundation - Oakland, CA March 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked with Win Forms using ASP.NET and C#.NET.  • Developed the web application using C#.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, and SQL Server.  • Interacted with client end -user during requirements gathering sessions.  • Worked with ASP.NET AJAX Controls and Extenders and Win Forms.  • Extensively used ASP.NET Validation Controls and JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Gained valuable experience working with ASP.NET and C#, developed application logic in C#.  • Responsible for writing stored procedures, functions using T-Sql to intercourse between tables to perform data operations on Oracle and SQL 2005/2008.  • Extensively used ASP.NET Validation Controls and JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Gained valuable experience working with ASP.NET and C#, developed application logic in C#.  • Responsible for writing stored procedures, functions using T-Sql to intercourse between tables to perform data operations on Oracle and SQL 2005/2008.  • Involved in migrating the application from Asp to ASP.NET.  • Developed many Web Forms using C# and ASP.NET and used AJAX in some forms.  • Created and optimized views for user interactions using objects of HTML Helper class, Custom Helpers and JavaScript.  • Involved in migrating the application from Asp to ASP.NET.  • Used Active Directory for security and authentication for the different users and administration level.    Environment: C#.Net, ASP.NET, JavaScript, Win forms, SQL Server 2005, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Web services, Visual Studio 2005/2008 and .NET Framework, VB.NET, ADO.NET, LINQ to SQL, WPF, XAML, VSS. Education Bachelor's in design ASP.NET State Management Skills .net (9 years), Ado (9 years), Asp (9 years), Asp.net (9 years), C# (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  .Net Technologies ASP.NET 3.0/4.0/5.0, VB.NET, Asp.Net Web API, Web services, WCF, ADO .Net, C#, OOPS Concepts, and LINQ, ASP .Net MVC 5.0/6.1.3.  Databases SQL Server 2008/2012/2014, ORACLE(9i,10g,11g,12c), MySQL  Software Engineering Agile(scrum),Waterfall, TDD, Pair Programming  Scripting Java Script, JQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2/4 Knockout JS, Node.js  Version Control Visual Source Safe(VSS), Team Foundation Server(TFS),GitHub, Octopus Deploy  Development Tools& Application Services MS Office, Visual Studio .NET 2005-2015, Apache Tomcat, IIS 6/IIS 7SQL Server Management studio  Cloud Technology Microsoft Azure, AWS  Networking Protocols SOAP, HTTP and TCP/IP  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Mac  Web Technologies HTML, XML, XSLT, XSD, CSS3, AJAX, HTML5, JSON, KENDO UI, BOOTSTRAP.  Reports Crystal Reports, SSRS, SSIS, Google Charts