Sr. ServiceNow Developer Sr. ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. ServiceNow Developer - Caterpillar Peoria, IL ? A qualified IT professional with overall 8 years of experience in ServiceNow platform both as an Designer Architect, Admin and developer with 4 years of experience working for US companies.  ? In-depth knowledge of the technical implementation in Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Asset Management, OOTB, CMDB, Reporting, Discovery and various CMS features from past 4 years and 3 years of in depth Experience using SQL and PowerShell along with knowledge of technical components such as LDAP, SSO, SSL and other such technologies.  ? Extensive working experience with solution designing and very closely with ITSM Process Architect, PPM Process Architect, IT Architect, Business Analysts, IT support teams and other technical teams to make sure that business needs around implementation of ServiceNow Platform are in a controlled and predictive manner.  ? Worked on End to End implementation of CMDB module using Discovery tool in ServiceNow.  ? More than 5 years of hands-on Experience and better understanding of web programming languages such as JavaScript, XML, HTML, AJAX CSS, Jelly, jQuery, HTTP/S and Angular JS.  ? Hands on work experience in managing full application stacks from OS up through custom applications and hands on experience using a leading cloud platform provider highly preferred like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure, VMWare.  ? In depth with practical experience of Source Control systems such as Git, VSTS, Bitbucket, GitHub and Experience with Visual Studio and deploying systems to Microsoft Azure.  ? Having good knowledge in Integration experience with AWS, Azure, office 365 and other cloud platforms.  ? Extensive practical knowledge working with scripting languages and databases such as Oracle, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Perl, UNIX shell scripts from past 3 years.  ? Extensive experience on Orchestration extending the workflow engine and OOTB applications to manage processes and to automate things outside of a ServiceNow instance.  ? Excellent hands on Configuration and customization of Help Desk, Change/Incident/Problem Management Modules including: Business Rules, Client Scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions based on user requirements.  ? Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC, customizing OOTB applications, quality management systems and project life cycle processes.  ? Implemented Asset Management, Discovery, CMDB and Workday integration for user attributes and Onboarding.  ? Worked on Discovery in order to re-locate the devices that were irregularly managed and found a solution in resolving the issues with using the Discovery tool for a better use.  ? Solved complex problems, design user-friendly interfaces and optimize processes through automation.  ? Extensive knowledge on Creation and documentation of test cases as required for Service Management (SM) tool changes.  ? Extensive experience in development, testing, and implementation of Telecom, Healthcare, Insurance, and Financial based applications using IBM WebSphere Portal.  ? In depth knowledge and hands-on experience working on CMDB to perform data migration from importing data to other application.  ? Quickly route customer issues to appropriately skilled agents with machine learning. Provide customers with self-service options, including automated solutions to recurring requests, conversational answers from a chatbot, knowledgebase articles, and an online community of peers and experts.  ? Extensive knowledge on Performing system and integration testing with sample and live data.  ? Hands on experience and designing of ServiceNow with Azure AD providing the customer with the following:  ? Working hard to control the Azure AD who has access to ServiceNow.  ? Working for enabling client users to automatically get signed-on to ServiceNow (Single Sign-On) with their Azure AD accounts.  ? Experience in integrating ServiceNow with other IT systems, implementation of Discovery on remote desktops and developing code for the mid-tier servers.  ? Managing your accounts in one central location - the Azure portal.  ? Development and Designing of CMDB and ASSET management modules for the implementation process in ServiceNow with web integration services like SOAP/REST.  ? In depth knowledge and experience designing new forms and applications using CMDB upon the client request and based on approval flow.  ? Responsible for SAML 2.0 Single Sign-On to ensure security enhancements plugin improves integration security by requiring additional checks against the SAML Response URL parameter.  ? In depth knowledge of the integration explicitly which checks the SAML response for the proper Identity Provider (IdP) and intended audience URLs.  ? Strong experience & knowledge of Web 2.0 technologies mostly working on configuration of ServiceNow Service Management module and use the orchestration capabilities of the platform.  ? Functional knowledge, leading the design process, development, documentation, administration implementation and technical support experience of IT Service Management (ITSM) frameworks and demonstrated project management skills and experience working directly with customers and client since 4 years.  ? Experience developing ServiceNow applications from business requirements technical design documents.  ? Great Hands on experience and knowledge on Service Portal, configuration of custom widgets using Angular JS, Bootstrap.  ? Experience in working with the workflows in ServiceNow for Service Catalog using workflow editor.  ? Familiarities working with transform maps, data sources and different transform scripts for data loads and management.  ? Experience in working on the ITIL Process Configuration like Change Management and Knowledge Management and Reporting in ServiceNow.  ? In depth knowledge of Working with schedule jobs, events and triggers to manage business needs and handle background work.  ? Working with Project managers in managing software development life-cycle to meet the Development, Testing and Deployment schedules.  ? Following the ITIL standards in defining the Incident, Change and Problem management processes and configuration of the tool.  ? Interacting with business users and service delivery manages in analyzing the business requirements and defining the implementation process.  ? Work effectively with others in a team environment & Lead various projects.  ? Strong verbal, written and interpersonal communication skills. Work Experience Sr. ServiceNow Developer Caterpillar - Peoria, IL August 2018 to Present Advise customers on ServiceNow ITOM best practices and guide customer configuration/implementations of the ServiceNow ITOM Platform.  ? Mainly responsible for the design, development of ITOM modules, and critical integrations into legacy environments including reporting infrastructures.  ? Hands-on Experience which develops and configures ServiceNow ITOM modules and reconfigure and maintain existing ITIL modules.  ? Performed the task of using Discovery to load configuration information to CMDB.  ? Worked on Service Mapping to define business services, troubleshoot the discovery and mapping process as well as create new discovery patterns.  ? Worked on Discovery and set up mid servers and check for the connectivity, Became an expert in troubleshooting Discovery tool.  ? Making sure customer service a team sport by engaging other departments in the resolution of the root cause of issues, driving permanent solutions, and improving product quality. Integrate CSM with ServiceNow® Field Service Management, giving customer service visibility into on-site repairs.  ? With access to real-time operational health of customers, agents receive alerts of potential issues before the customer is even aware.  ? Working hard to fix the root cause of issues by delivering service as a team sport with the Visual Task Board: identify issues in customer service and assign them directly to field service, engineering, operations, finance, legal, and other departments and track those issues to resolution.  ? Configured and maintained ServiceFirst Configuration Item Discovery, Service Mapping Discovery and the ServiceFirst Configuration Management Database.  ? Worked on End to End implementation of CMDB module using Discovery tool in ServiceNow.  ? Wrote business rules to avoid empty configuration items to be stored in CMDB after Discovery tool runs a scheduled job  ? Configured Event Management (ITOM) by configuring Connector Instances and Connector Definitions.  ? Demonstrate hands on experience with multiple implementations of the core suite of ITOM applications (Discovery, Service Mapping, Event Management, Cloud Management  ? Setting up and monitoring workflows, creating and tracking Service Catalog requests, and items with variables.  ? Managing users and groups access rights, business rules, controls and scripting.  ? Mostly worked on Supporting Service Management (SM) analytics, including all operational reporting aspects of SM tool (SLAs, KPIs, dashboards, ad hoc, etc.) using ServiceNow Performance Analytics.  ? Served as a resource for user acceptance testing for tool upgrades and enhancements.  ? Working hard to implement and document, gain acceptance / approvals of selected final solutions.  ? Hands on experience working on use the plugin to orchestrate business services, applications, and infrastructure and also used Orchestration to automate Web Services and uses MID Servers to execute commands on devices inside an enterprise's network.  ? Strong skill set in the ServiceNow suite development including SOAP/REST integration.  ? Worked on Procurement Application in creating purchase items and full filling the catalog requests.  ? Customized the applications using Business Rules, Client Scripts, UI Action and UI Policies, External Data load using Transform maps, etc., based on the application requirements and rolled out the customizations to upper environments using Update Sets.  ? Day to day work in order to ensure and facilitate the implementation and integration of all modules.  ? Worked on configuring, customization of Project management as per the requirements.  ? Involved in creation of Reports, Dashboards in ServiceNow.  ? Developed Service catalog by creating new catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  ? Worked with Service Now Event Management by configuring Event Mapping Rules, Event Transform rules, Alert rules, Incident Templates. Sr. ServiceNow Developer/Consultant Home Depot - Austin, TX July 2017 to July 2018 Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Perform day to day administration of Service-Now in Development, Test and Production environments to maintain business services and configuration item relationships in Service-Now and configuring OOTB applications.  ? Better understanding Architect of technical and functional design requirements for ServiceNow.  ? Providing high level design and technical solutions for ServiceNow implementation is necessary.  ? In depth knowledge prioritizing multiple tasks effectively and deliver technical design documents.  ? Day to day working on Consumption of the Azure tags into ServiceNow and vice versa to keep the CI up to date (This includes Azure Iaas, PaaS items) and Integration of Azure Activity into service.  ? Working hard to create, manage and execute test harnesses for regression test purposes and having in depth knowledge of Cloud Service Development with Windows Azure.  ? Participate in the development of business requirements ensuring a thorough understanding of business needs and processes.  ? Experience on ServiceNow HR Service Management streamlines and improves HR service delivery by offering a consumer like self-service portal to employees along with out of the box request and fulfill process automation.  ? Creating HR cases to record the processing of individual HR requests. For example, create an HR case to record the advice provided to an employee regarding an issue.  ? Full fill HR fields requests ranging from simple time off questions to on boarding and off boarding employees or handling complaints.  ? Wrote Classifiers and identifiers to direct the discovery tool to gather the information of the configuration items without errors.  ? Responsible for the creation of MID Server and setting up Discovery  ? Schedule to discover the infrastructure and their relationships  ? Involved in a Proof of Concept project in implementing the CMDB with Discovery and Service Watch.  ? Proposed and provided solution options business cases, prototypes and walk-throughs to all required levels of stakeholders in designing processes.  ? In depth knowledge working on OOTB Applications, Orchestration to ensure automation repeatability, security, and compliance.  ? Hands on experience working and Integrating Microsoft Azure with ServiceNow using Rest API.  ? Orchestration activities which I also often used to work on are as follows:  ? Use the databus, which allows the activity to have well-defined inputs and outputs.  ? Share data across activities within a workflow.  ? Provide development team with Integration and data technical subject matter expertise and work with fellow members of the team (business analysts, testers) to ensure development activities are aligned with scope, priority and business objective  ? Conducting ServiceNow testing and UAT signoff for upgrade and release cycles.  ? Maintaining a solid understanding of the ServiceNow platform, OOTB, ITBM and ITSM functionality.  ? Communicating with the impact of issues to senior IT and BU management.  ? Collaborates with other IT functions to design solutions for complex problems and understands end-to-end business processes.  ? Designing and developing of integration solutions, data migration strategies and tools.  ? Conceptualize, design, code, and test ServiceNow solutions that deliver new system capabilities, system enhancements or defects.  ? Develop the logical and physical data models for this CMDB and OOTB management.  ? Identify, verify, and architect the federation of data that will comprise the CMDB including external sources  ? Contribute, coach, and support the ServiceNow developer team with the CMDB configuration, maintenance, and operation.  ? Continuously monitor application performance and vendor recommended patches & upgrades  ? Collaborate with fellow team members to improve the quality and scalability of supported systems and provide recommendations  ? Partner with the business on exploring new opportunities to add value through the use of technology  ? Develop a range of documentation that describes the data model, the federation of data from external sources, the management and maintenance of the CMDB and the relevant roles and responsibilities of program personnel  ? Evaluate existing CMDB functionality and recommend improvements to drive efficiency and effectiveness  ? Participates in the planning, designing and implementing of the Service Model in CMDB to ensure visibility across the infrastructure environment  ? Hands-on work experience on the single "bindings and profiles" specification has been split into two documents, one for bindings and one for profiles, and the latter now includes "SAML attribute profiles".  ? Document business requirements, workflows, use cases, functional requirements, test plans, test cases, and data mappings for new enhancements or modifications to CMDB functionality.  ? Experience with Continuous Delivery and KPI for further improving configuration management processes  ? Created Buttons, context menus both on form and lists using UI actions.  ? Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts.  ? Configured Email, inbound and outbound email actions and developed mail scripts to create incidents or requests.  ? Hands-on experience working and coordinating integrations with applications such as Active Directory, in house and COTS developed.  ? Utilized Orchestration to extend workflows to interact with systems and application code outside.  ? Worked on improving IT service delivery and demonstrate how IT is performing to support the business using ServiceNow ITSM.  ? Extensive experience on Service Portal configuration. Developed custom widgets using portal designer and portal pages.  ? Designing and preparing documents as per the client requirements and specifications.  ? Manage ITIL processes monitoring overall system performance using the System Performance and System Diagnostic dashboards. Integrating ServiceNow with other systems and customization.  ? Customizing the workflows for various ServiceNow standard tables while aligning with ITIL V3 best practices.  ? Creation of user accounts, groups, roles, creating new and updating existing catalog items. Created, published & retiring knowledge base articles.  ? Testing all the updates of the respective system with all skills required and makes necessary changes in the configuration.  ? Integrated Microsoft Active Directory to ServiceNow using LDAPS. Configured OU's for data and scheduled loads for data sync  ? Involved in creation of ServiceNow applications, modules, and tables as per requirements and also Involved in customization of forms for various ServiceNow applications.  ? Created notifications based on user requirements and also configured inbound email actions to create incidents or requests.  Environment: HTML, ServiceNow, Java script, Incident Management, Change Management, Problem Management. Sr. ServiceNow Application Developer Insurance Auto Auction - Chicago, IL September 2015 to June 2017 Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Plan, manage and control the Configuration Management Database (CMDB) to ensure the accuracy of configuration data and proper reporting and status accounting.  ? Work with various stakeholders to obtain necessary information and to ensure the quality of the CMDB data is maintained and all Configuration Items are up-to-date.  ? Tons of experience on ITOM modules and have been working on special access to all system features, functions, and data because administrators can override ACL rules and pass all role checks. Consider these implications when using admin overrides on ACLs.  ? Practical Experience on building orchestration workflows by adding various combinations of pre-built orchestration activities for Linux, Unix, Windows, and cloud services and custom orchestration activities.  ? With ServiceNow Orchestration, Most probably worked to improve operational IT efficiency, increase enterprise agility, and allocate more time and expertise to providing strategic value to the enterprise.  ? Redefine the role of ITOM by establishing advisor relationships with business stakeholders and creating, curating and distributing business insights.  ? Responsible for Development Team Performance and involved in grooming & mentoring team members on various processes  ? Worked as a Pre and Post installation consultant to define and implement industry (ITIL) best practice for the ServiceNow ITSM Platform. Worked closely with the Web Development and QA teams to build, test and release site implementations.  ? Involved in writing client side validations using Java Script, AJAX.  ? Resolved the issues, errors and problems encountered across website implementations.  ? Managed and prioritized workload between project and maintenance tasks.  ? Create data fix scripts for data corruption issues and perform Root Cause Analysis  ? Involved in daily, weekly and monthly meetings with client on the work progress and discussions on the upcoming work.  ? Realign ITOM tool investments around experience management, delivery automation and performance analysis based on the work performed and the value delivered.  ? Update ITOM roles, organizational structures and incentives by hiring and promoting individuals who demonstrate competence in both business and technology.  ? Involved in Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident, Change, Problem, Knowledge, Service Catalog, and CMDB in ServiceNow.  ? Assist the MTA IT staff in the integration/ field mapping and reconciliation of data from ServiceNow discovery, Service Mapping, SCCM, SolarWinds discovery, and ad hoc loads in the configuration management module.  ? • Perform change reconciliations for data in the CMDB.  ? • Assist with audits of CMDB data to ensure that the data is accurate.  ? • Assist MTA IT staff with maintaining CMDB data which is not discoverable by automated tools.  ? Developed solutions using JavaScript, Web Services such as REST and SOAP to integrate ServiceNow with internal/ external systems.  ? Assist with tasks related to implementing the ServiceNow application in the MTA IT environment.  ? • Work with MTA IT in documenting procedures for the discovery, configuration and change management functions  ? • Assist in developing, modifying, and configuring reports, dashboards, and outputs associated with the change, configuration, discovery and mapping functions.  ? Experience in ServiceNow development and Implementation.  ? Used ServiceNow performance analytics and reporting to visualize data from the instance for the better understanding of process  ? Designing, development and implementation of solutions and projects related to ServiceNow User Interfaces.  ? Identify and implement efficiencies and improvements to standard processes and procedures such as automation through scripting and programming languages such as JavaScript and XHTML.  ? Facilitating and working to improve User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and release activities.  ? Ensure tool and configuration consistency across development, stage, testing, sandbox, and production environments are correctly configured.  ? Designing, configuring and customizing new applications and modules. Assisting in troubleshooting patch / release management issues.  ? Create, monitor, modify, and publish service catalog workflows with approvals.  ? Writing Business Rules, Client scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions to customize the instance as per Business needs.  ? Worked with windows team, network team and Asset team in order to check for the data collected through discovery is accurate.  ? Created new Business Rules/Script Includes/Client catalog script/Client Script.  ? Management, Change Management, Asset Management and Service Catalog.  ? Troubleshooting Configuration management database and Reconciliation issues  ? Developing interfaces between applications.  ? Implemented, documented and maintained the ServiceNow platform to meet specific business needs to support ITIL and business processes.  ? Design and implementation of service requests through Service Catalog in ServiceNow.  ? Performed analytical skills with an ability to understand information system and thoroughly analyze and address business needs.  ? Responsible for debugging, troubleshooting & resolving the issues. Prepared a root cause analysis (RCA) report.  ? Analyzed various problems and created new solutions and new techniques.  Environment: JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Bootstrap, Jelly. Web/ServiceNow Developer Anira Solutions Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2010 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in designing system architecture and identifying proper patterns and framework for the system.  ? Participated in analysis activities, software design and design reviews with Sun Microsystems.  ? Communicated with Business Owners to finalize Use Cases, Design documents and System Involved Architecture documents.  ? Design with standards compliant code with emphasis on browser compatibility, accessibility, and search engine optimization with frameworks/libraries such as jQuery, Bootstrap etc.  ? Created webpages according to client's guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Established standards and best practices for coding and design and Implemented functionality in JavaScript  ? Created Notifications and Inbound email actions for HR and payroll tickets. Created events for notifications.  ? Created and maintained documentations such as Functional design documents, detailed design documents, data flow diagrams, data entity relationships documents for all the internal projects  ? Provided Productions supports and ongoing user supports for the application, Customizations Migration between Instances using Update Set.  ? Developed and maintained APIs and data integration processes between ServiceNow and other services.  ? Involved in cloning activities like raising the request for cloning and excluding some tables to not come under cloning.  ? Involved in Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident, Change, Problem, Knowledge, Service Catalog, and CMDB in ServiceNow.  ? Created different Categories, Sub categories, Catalog Items, Variables, Variable sets and all other necessary things required for implementation.  ? Involved in working with process-owners to develop workflow, implement the workflows in Service Application, administered the tools and enhanced requests by JavaScript.  ? Responsible for maintaining and growing data held within ServiceNow such as our users, Service catalog items.  ? Trained Service Desk team and organized meetings to review content and testing efforts for testing in UAT for quarterly releases and working with applications designed in OOTB applications.  ? Hands-on experience and developing deep understanding of internal customer priorities, value drivers and challenges, and use this knowledge to develop comprehensive requirements definitions.  ? Also developed cross-Service Management process solutions that optimize the internal customers performance and results.  ? Worked on change management module by enhancing the tool to the stakeholders and made it easy to understand.  ? Involved in creation and modification of various Business rules, Client Scripts, UI policies, UI actions.  ? Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery Scripting.  ? Worked on prototypes for Responsive design.J2EE, HTML, JQUERY, XML, JavaScript.  ? Worked on various phase of a software life cycle: Design, implementation, verification and maintenance.  ? Developed HTML and CSS codes for front-end deployment.  ? Involved in Requirements and Analysis: Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the application Framework.  ? Perform system and application configuration and management. Provide level 2 customer support of tickets assigned to the ServiceNow team  ? Provides analysis of problems while working toward solutions to technical issues  ? Complete development, configuration and workflow administration to support business processes in the platform  ? Configuration/Customization of the ServiceNow system including workflows  ? Uses scripting tools and ServiceNow functionality create script to automate routine tasks being done in ServiceNow.  Environment: HTML, JQUERY, XML, JavaScript. Education Bachelors in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills CHANGE MANAGEMENT (8 years), SCRIPTING (6 years), HTML (5 years), CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT (4 years), JAVA (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    ? Service Now  ? Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Orchestration, ITSM, ITOM, Service Catalog, Configuration Management, CMDB, Reporting, Discovery and Integrations, Client Side and Server Side Scripting, Client & Server API's, Glide Aggregate, Glide Record, Administration, Reporting, Email Notifications, Creating/Editing Home pages, Personalizing Forms.    ? Process Model Tools ? MS Office Suite 9X/2000/XP (PowerPoint, Word, Excel, Access, and Outlook), MS Outlook, MS Project, MS Visio.  ? languages ? C, C++, HTML, Java Script, Angular Java script  ? Methodologies ? Agile Modeling, SDLC model, Waterfall model, Spiral model.  ? Databases ? Oracle, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Perl, UNIX shell scripts  ? Operating Systems ? WIN XP, Linux, Unix