Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> New Brunswick, NJ Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer IMC, On Beat Digital - Holmdel, NJ June 2017 to Present • Front end development of marketing emails and landing pages for Fortune 100 clients.  • Development and maintenance of several components for a large marketing website for a Fortune 100  company.  • Development of a survey page for a client with a large amount of questions and complex logic using  Vue.js.  • Full stack development and maintenance of a large enterprise level web application using Node.js and Angular 5.  • Technologies include HTML, CSS, Javascript, Vue.js, AngularJS, Node.js Full Stack Web Developer Invonto - Bridgewater, NJ December 2016 to June 2017 Full stack development and maintenance of a customer and project management system for a large  client.  • Built and maintained a customer facing project management system for use by a large client and their  customers.  • Technologies include .NET MVC, C#, Entity Framework, and AngularJS. Teaching Assistant Rutgers Coding Bootcamp - Somerset, NJ July 2016 to January 2017 Rutgers Coding Bootcamp is a competitive, 24-week full stack development program that trains students  to become web developers. Offered on campus, RCB supports student success through graduation and job placement.  • Provide support to students with classwork, assignments and projects as needed.  • Grade student homework and projects and provide feedback on how they can improve those projects and build future projects using best practices. Founder Classic TV & Radio - New Brunswick, NJ January 2013 to December 2016 Started and managed a YouTube channel which published copyright free, and public domain television shows and radio broadcasts.  • Over the course of three and a half years built a YouTube channel from the ground up gaining over 4,500  subscribers. Received over 1.3 million views to date.  • Started a social media campaign using a Facebook page which garnered approximately 500 likes. Full Stack Web Developer Adaptive Learning Systems LLC - Old Bridge, NJ July 2016 to November 2016 Developed and maintained learning management systems utilizing math and statistics to produce and manage a large database of workbook questions. This includes systems that change over time to better  meet students needs based on their past performance and the performance of their peers.  • Used mobile first design to develop and maintain the front-end portion of a web app, while also developing and maintaining a backend database and API to be used by said web app.  • Built and maintained a database and API being used as a backend for a mobile app.  • Technologies include Node.js, AngularJS, PostgresSQL, and MongoDB. Freelance Web Developer Harvey Plum Creative LLC - New Brunswick, NJ 2015 to 2016 Worked with a senior web developer on several projects:  • Collaborated on design of a new website for Cho Legal Group and moved content to the new site.  • Helped with the implementation of new front end design for Versa Valves, including templating and CSS for many aspects of the site. Front End Developer NewBrunswickToday.com 2015 to 2016 Assisting with front end development of new website design, and code that allows readers to tweet a quote from an article along with a link. Vet Assistant/ Zoo Keeper Red Roof Fort Lee Animal Hospital - Fort Lee, NJ 2012 to 2015 Performed dental procedures, monitored anesthesia, assisted with X-rays, administered subcutaneous fluids, ran blood tests.  • The Raptor Trust, Millington, NJ- Assisted veterinarian and senior medical staff in the rehabilitation and releasing of wild birds. Assisted with X-rays, maintained living environment, prepared food, and fed birds.  • Bergen County Zoo, Paramus, NJ- Assisted zoo veterinarian and hospital staff with injured animals.  Provided animals with necessary medications and informed the hospital of any new health problems. Education Rutgers Coding Bootcamp- Full-Stack Flex Program April 2016 B.S. in Animal Science in Animal Science Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey October 2011 Rutgers Coding Bootcamp's Full-Stack Flex Program