PHP/GoLang web Engineer PHP/GoLang <span class="hl">web</span> Engineer PHP/GoLang web Engineer - Zoeitis Work Experience PHP/GoLang web Engineer Zoeitis July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing interactive web applications using a dynamic scripting language like PHP, and Python and Developed/Design the application using LAMP architecture.  • Design Authentication form to check whether the user is an authorized person to use the system  • Interact with Client to gather requirement. Analyze Requirement and develop functionality accordingly.  • Conceived and designed database tables in MYSQL.  • Experience in developing UI applications using HTML, HTML5, JQuery, and AJAX, AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Implemented PHP session variables and cookies and Used Zend-Debugger for the error resolutions.  • Created the help desk for user's queries to meet the bulk queries submitted by the users.  • Implemented SEO based WordPress modules optimizing the search function all over the site.  • Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using UI and MVC architecture.  • Experience in Architecting Elasticsearch based on the Hardware Requirements.  • Built functionality using Golang for CSV data submission and inserted complete data in Database using Mysql.  • Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on Restful API using Golang.  • Experience with Log Analytics in ELK Cluster using Logstash Filters and Visualization with Kibana.  • Experience with installation of Kibana Plugins, Creating Dashboards, and Alerts for End-User.  • Experience in Creating Bucket Aggregations, Query Optimization of Elastic DSL (Domain-specific Language).  • Hands-on Experience in Creating Custom Index Mappings and Settings of ELK Cluster for Performance Boost.  • Optimizations responsible for ElasticSearch Platform configurations via Application-side joins, Data denormalization, Nested objects & Parent/child relationships.  • Created internal Feedback system tools using Golang and AngularJS in order to assist with customer issues.  • Proficiency in implementing setup using the GoLang.  • Enhanced, fixed functional and performance related bugs in core product written in GO ( Golang).  • Created Login and Registration facility in web page for customers using GoLang and MYSQL.  • Assisted other developers in following best practices for PHP,Codeigniter, Golang, and other infrastructure needs.  • Using Golang, Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Good experience in Upgrading, evaluating, Troubleshooting, Monitoring Elasticsearch clusters.  • Good experience in install, configure, debugg, maintaining Elasticserach on the administration side.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML 5/XHTML, CSS 3, JavaScript, jQuery and used bootstrap for designing web pages to get responsive designs.  • Learned and implemented Data science Model for various business needs.  • Used PHP MyAdmin to handle the administration of MYSQL over the World Wide Web.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while following code standards.  • Used phpMyAdmin to handle the administration of MYSQL over the World Wide Web.  • Tracked and fixed bugs that were found during various phases of developments.  • Building the website from scratch in corePHP and Used JavaScript to make interactive site. Responsible to handle frontend side of application to make it high performance, rich and user friendly.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, CSS floats, cross browser compatibility and CSS behaviors in CSS.  Environment: Wamp server, Ajax, jQuery, JavaScript, SQL, Core PHP, CodeIgniter, WordPress, HTML,CSS,Lamp. PHP Developer Zest PVT. LTD January 2014 to December 2015 Zest is outsourcing company which basically helps clients for application development on various frameworks based on PHP and .Net, apart from being service based company for web development it also works on developing mobile application development like android development and iPhone development.  Responsibilities:  • Understanding requirements provided by clients and provide time estimate for project development.  • Worked on set up of web application by connecting to local system database.  • Worked on WordPress theme integration.  • Created and Deployed Project management system for managing projects in company.  • Implemented dropdown functionality in website and extracted data in real time while selection of option.  • Implemented contact us webpage by integrating contact us form to email on staging server.  • Implemented plugin Integration based system requirements and checked over all functionality of website not getting compromised.  • Implemented pagination functionality on record shown in table using Core PHP.  • Implemented sorting functionality using core PHP 5.0.  • Worked in MVC based framework such as CodeIgniter.  • Worked on Ecommerce application Build using Laravel framework.  • Extensively used JQuery Table sorter plugins as a data grid for sorting and freezing headers and footers for many tables which holds huge data.  • Interact with Client to gather requirement, analyze Requirement and develop functionality accordingly.  • Implemented Form validation using JavaScript for the contact us form.  • Implemented various PHP functions to get the desired code output to implement functionality.  • Worked on existing web application and fixed code by debugging on each user defined function.  • Fixed the code of JavaScript slider on web application which resulted complete running functionality.  • Implemented dynamic drop down with fetching and displaying data on fly using core PHP.  • Experience in developing UI applications using HTML5, jQuery, and AJAX, AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Building the website from scratch in corePHP and Used JavaScript to make interactive site, Responsible to handle frontend side of application to make it high performance, rich and user friendly.  • Implemented CRUD functionality using CodeIgniter an MVC based framework.  • Implemented CRUD functionality using AngularJS.  • Wrote PHP codes to interact with the third party JSON services to provide an easy to configure web service server interface.  • Developed Contact Fill Application using Drupal and installation and integration of the Application online.  • Worked on HTML5/CSS3 and jQuery in a Drupal based CMS environment.  • Performed code debugging of JavaScript and HTML code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome using JavaScript debugger.  • Worked on an open-source CMS Drupal to build website using Drupal7.  • Worked with the design of the templates and skins in CSS. Responsible to handle frontend side of application to make it high performance, rich and user friendly.  • Worked on PHP5 and MYSQL, HTML5, Ajax, JavaScript, CSS3 and Word Press on Windows and Linux operating systems.  • Responsible for creating the navigation menu and sub menu in the site using CSS, HTML and PHP.  • Build AJAX pages using PHP to display current server time.  • worked with the Database Schema design and normalization for database accessed by the procedural PHP pages.  • Involved in the designing the templates and customizing the CMS Word Press.  • Designing in HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery for making website more attractive.  • Building PHP sites using Word Press.  • Created Web back-end user interfaces to new and existing databases utilizing PHP 5.0 and MySQL.  • Built PHP and CSS system for controlling text display issues cross-platform and cross browser.  • Creation of menus, pages, templates, blocks in WordPress.  • Used AJAX for every page for dynamically displaying the data without a page refresh.  • Involved in fixing the CSS for the browsers Safari, Chrome, Mozilla, Internet explorer, Opera  • Used JQuery Scroll to plugins for the web pages to slide right and left as per the requirements on the modules.    Environment: Wamp server, Ajax, jQuery, JavaScript, SQL, Core PHP, CodeIgniter, WordPress, PHP Developer Maven Infotech January 2010 to December 2013 Maven Infotech is outsourcing company for software development such as web application development, Responsive application development, Mobile application development.  The goal of my project was to develop Dynamic web application. My projects involved making CRUD functionality and implementing in system. Projects worked included developing application based various frameworks such as Core PHP, CodeIgniter which is MVC based framework, WordPress which is basically used for Content Management System (CMS).  Responsibilities:  • Configured WordPress system to WAMP server and converted the HTML, CSS to WordPress form.  • Experience in creating CRUD functionality from scratch and implementing with View, insert, update, Delete functionality in real time.  • Experience in Drupal Themes developing Drupal custom modules, resolving Drupal configuration issues.  • Migration of Drupal7 to 8 version and Involved in developing new features as enhancements.  • Created complex SQL queries for development of Login functionality, Registration form.  • Worked on existing application build on CodeIgniter which is MVC based framework.  • Used WordPress to build application from scratch and used WordPress plugins to speed up development process.  • Created Ecommerce website in WordPress and used WooCommerce plugin to implement ecommerce functionality.  • Modification and customization of the Drupal and Word Press themes.  • Create custom Drupal modules using PHP 5.0, MySQL and JavaScript and configure required contributed Modules.  • Experience with working in JavaScript by implementing form validation functionality to check user's data validation.  • Used jQuery to implement animation functionality in web-based application.  • Used Ajax to get real time data from database without loading whole website.  • Done JavaScript Validation for the Data on the client Side.  • Implemented Login functionality along with registered page.  • Utilized Modernizer extensively to build HTML/CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Utilized HTML, CSS, Memcached and Php to develop and customize WordPress websites for small businesses.  • Maintaining User groups with Drupal CMS.  • Performed system upgrades to Drupal websites, including Drupal core, contributed modules and custom theme upgrades.  • Worked on customizing modules, themes using API's and core Drupal modules.  • Work with teams in designing and developing server optimization techniques like caching, output stream compression, cache, Drupal module updates and releases etc.  • Worked on Restaurant website by implementing JavaScript slider for menu page.  • Implemented prevention against SQL Injection Attacks using CodeIgniter's built in methods.  • Implemented Session Timeouts to automatically logoff users who are idle beyond Application's time limit.  • Developing user interfaces for Desktop, Mobile, and Tablet using Java Script, HTML4, HTML5, Ajax, CSS2, CSS3, jQuery, JSON and AngularJS & React JS.  • Implemented front-end validation with jQuery/JavaScript to ensure data quality and enforce business rules.  • Implemented Back-end validation with CodeIgniter to ensure data quality and enforce business rules.  • Built PHP applications to meet product requirements and satisfy use cases using MVC architecture, Laravel Framework and Drupal CMS.  • Used Drupal CCK for creating and customizing fields using a web browser.  • Integrated existing Drupal modules as well as create custom theme, module, views, functions and hooks.  • Designed and developed of modules of web-based applications using LAMP technology.  • Worked on PHP programming, including OO, procedural, data structures and design patterns.  • Extensively used XHTML, JavaScript, and CSS for the User Interface.  • Worked on fixing various front end and back end related bugs that further helped in understanding overall product development, using mantis bug tracking system.    Environment: Wamp server, Ajax, jQuery, JavaScript, SQL, Core PHP, CodeIgniter, WordPress    CORE PHP PROJECTS  • Done CRUD functionality i.e. Adding, View, updating and deletion of records from database and it even includes the sorting of records in ascending and descending orders and search for particular record from database and get it displayed and pagination for displaying required number of records in web page and implementing the relational joins to different tables in database and even done image upload, where images were uploaded to certain location and created the image gallery. Finally combined all works showing the header, content and footer of project.    WORDPRESS PROJECT  • WordPress is CMS mainly used for Blogging sites in which I have done theme integration and installing plugin and display of pages dynamically from the back end and categorizing of post and get it displayed.    List of Live projects worked on PHP  • Studio Marmi: Studio marmi is ceramic based company located in New Jersey where the project involved to customize web structure using HTML and CSS.  • Cabo: Cabo is tourism-based website describing about the Los Cabos History and tourism places and facilities offered by them.  • Thpp: THPP is Tungsten powder parts Ecommerce website which was built in PHP using woo commerce plugin.  • Axsys: Axsys is a manufacturing firm which built its website using WordPress which is CMS based web application. Education Master of Science in Information Assurance in Information Assurance Wilmington University January 2016 to May 2018 Skills .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Api, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Json, memcached, Perl, Php, Python, Ruby, Scripting, Visio, Xml, Xslt, Ajax, Cgi Additional Information TechnicalSkills:    Web Technologies  JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, XML, JSON, jQuery, DOM, Markdown, XHTML, XSLT, CGI, JSP, XHR, Servlets, JDBC,Hibernate,ReactMobile,Elastic Search.    Programming/Scripting Languages PHP, C, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, PL/SQL, Python, Ruby,.NET, C#.  Framework and Tools MVC framework, Zend, MS Office, Symphony, EXT.js, Moodle.  IDE Tools  Adobe Dreamweaver, InDesign, Flash, ColdFusion, Photoshop, Eclipse, PHP Designer, Microsoft visual Studio, Zend Studio, IBM Rational Application  Developer.    Modeling Tools Rational Rose [UML], MS Visio.  Application/ Web Servers Apache Web Server, IBM WebSphere, ZEND server.  Web Services WSDL, XML, SOAP, UDDI, API,BPM  Databases MySQL4/5[PHPMYADMIN],MS Access, Oracle, Postgre SQL, SQLite, Memcached.  Networking Technologies TCP/IP, OSPF, BGP, Cisco, Juniper, FTP, HTTP, DNS, DHCP.  CMS WordPress, Drupal,Zend.  Operating Systems Ubuntu, Unix, Windows.