Front End Developer Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Phoenixville, PA My name is Travis and I am an accomplished web design and developer with more than 12 years combined experience in web and graphic design, marketing, IT and web development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Ferrandino & Son - Audubon, PA September 2018 to Present • Led the design and execution of a company re-brand for two newly acquired  companies, developing and launching both sites in 90 days.     • Created UI/UX wireframes executed in Adobe XD before transitioning into live code.    • Developed unique CMS themes with video content, vendor database integrations  and multi-step contact forms.    • Worked with engineering team to implement RESTful API for use with custom tracking software. Web Developer Travis Butler Design June 2014 to Present Senior Front End Developer Kevin Smith Transportation Group - Phoenixville, PA August 2016 to May 2019 • Responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of company website including writing HTML, CSS and JavaScript.    • Restructured dynamically generated landing pages to improve clarity and increase conversions, leading to monthly lead growth.    • Analyzed and presented Google Analytics to upper management while delivering month-over-month traffic growth.    • Worked with the sales and operations team to design and implement various outreach and marking email campaigns. Ecommerce Developer Destination RC October 2015 to August 2016 • Participated in the entire phase of development cycle from design, testing, and implementation    • Implemented and analyzed Google analytics for site metrics, e-commerce related event and goal tracking, A/B and multi-variant testing and custom reporting.    • Designed, coded and scheduled weekly email campaigns as well as monitored open rate, interaction and conversions.  Case Coordinator Executive Health Resources - Newtown Square, PA March 2012 to October 2015 Education Bachelor's in Computer Science West Chester University - West Chester, PA 2008 to 2012 Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Vs code, Mongodb, Mysql, Ui, Sass, jquery, Version control, Frameworks, Css, Wireframing, Graphic design, Illustrator, Wordpress, Sem, Seo, Marketing, CSS3, Front-End, HTML5, Front End, Node, React, User Interface, User Interface Links https://travisbutlerdesign.com Certifications/Licenses Google Analytics 2015 to 2020 Google Adwords 2015 to 2020