AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - Liberty Mutual Plano, TX • 7+ years of Experience as a Java, User Interface and AEM developer.  • 4 Years of strong Web Content Management experience with Adobe Experience Manager 5.6, Adobe Experience Manager 6.0, AEM 6.1, AEM 6.3 implementing 2+ full cycle AEM projects.  • Good knowledge of common Software Design Patterns  • Experience in developing CMS based applications using Adobe CQ/AEM Apache Sling.  • Experience in deploying dynamic libraries and API packages into OSGI.  • Expertise with setup and development of GUI using CQ5 and ExtJs.  • Worked with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  • Experience working with Adobe Marketing Cloud, Adobe AEM, Adobe Campaign, Adobe Target and Adobe Analytics.  • Extensive web design skills and work experience in developing web page applications covering front-end technologies like Sightly, HTML4/5, XHTML, CSS2/3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, XML, Ajax, AngularJS and bootstrap.  • Worked with Web Services using Service Oriented Architecture  • Excellent Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design.  • Good understanding of J2EE Security framework. Having experience in configuration of SSL on WebLogic server.  • Very good implementation knowledge and hands on SOAP Web services (JAX-WS) and RESTful Web services (JAX-RS)  • Efficient in working with repositories and experience in using GIT and SVN for source code version control.  • Strong Understanding on Responsive web application development  • Strong experience in using various IDE'S like Eclipse, NetBeans, Edit Plus, Fiddle, Tata's trom, Sublime text, Notepad++, Microsoft Visual, Astana studio and Webstore. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AEM Developer Liberty Mutual - Plano, TX March 2018 to Present Liberty Mutual Group is an American diversified global insurer, and the fourth-largest property and casualty insurer in the United States. It ranks 68th on the Fortune 100 list of largest corporations in the United States based on 2017 revenue. Based in Boston, Massachusetts, it employs over 50, 000 people in more than 900 locations throughout the world.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed, CQ5 building blocks including templates, reusable components, dialogs, widgets, workflows in AEM 6.3.  • Create and maintain customer-facing Adobe AEM content management systems.  • Perform AEM customization on foundation components and workflows to extend functionalities, improve performance or fix issues on project level. Offer solutions on top of the Adobe WCM, CRX/CRXDE, CQ WCM, DAM.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, CQ5 dispatcher to cache the landing page html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Utilize HTML5, CSS, and Angular JS for designing and implementing custom AEM components.  • Involve with content management strategies, architecture and multichannel content delivery.  • Developed digital consumer experiences based on foundation of the AEM product suite used DAM for image management.  • Implemented Sling Servlets and created OSGI bundles for interacting with remote spring web app and web services and custom business logic in java and deploy as jar files from the Felix System Console.  • Integrated LDAP for user access to the CMS systems for authoring and publishing.  • Developed and deployed custom OSGi bundle in Apache Felix console.  • Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) in AEM to control over blueprints and live copies and work on rollout configurations.  • Extensively used AEM tagging features in developing components and templates. Used JavaScript for writing listeners in the dialogs.  • Worked on Digital Asset Management, to manage and store all the media.  • Used Maven project structure for building the packages, subversion for source control, file vault for importing the code from JCR to file system and vice versa.  • Used Jenkins as build tool and used JIRA to track the bugs, issues and project management.  • Have a complete understanding of CRX repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • Worked on Agile Methodology. Used TDD as a method of implementation for testing functional parts of a website by performing Unit Testing.  • Involved in analyzing business requirements and composing them into a technical use case.    Environment: AEM 6.3, Apache Felix, OSGI, JAVA, J2EE, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, JIRA, jQuery, Eclipse, Maven, XML, LINUX, JSP, Web Services (SOAP, REST), JUnit, Perforce. AEM Developer Microsoft - Seattle, WA April 2017 to February 2018 Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, supports and sells computer software, consumer electronics, personal computers, and related services. Its best known software products are the Microsoft Windows line of operating systems, the Microsoft Office suite, and the Internet Explorer and Edge Web browsers.    Responsibilities  • Take part in daily scrum, Planning and Grooming session to understand new business requirements, progress of current sprint, RTP planning and etc.  • Worked on enhancing the out-of-box components or developed new custom components for both Touch UI and Classic UI of AEM.  • Built components and servlets for the lead generation forms on the website that post to Pardot, Salesforce and On24.  • Developed filter components that is used to build the dynamic list pages on the website. Where list can be filter dynamically by tags or keywords. The component was built using the AEM query builder and EhCache (application level caching)  • Worked on the Adobe Search and promote integration on the website search page.  • Integrated with the AEM pages with Learn dot APIs to pull in courses list along with the course info. This helped the users to filter  courses by the name, location or date and register for the courses.  • Developed custom AEM templates and components that can be used by the content authors and self service team to build and maintain pages on the websites.  • Developed Sling filters and services that helped in custom redirects to localized sites and for the dam assets (docs, pdfs and etc.)  • Used GIT versioning tools and Experience with Continuous Integration and Automated Test Execution and building tools such as Jenkins, Maven.    Environment: AEM 6.4, Classic UI, Touch UI, Java, HTL, SASS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JUnit, JCR, Eclipse IDE, Log4J, RestFul Web services, JSON API, JAX-WS, Maven, GIT, Spring, JIRA, Adobe Target, JCR, Vaultclipse, Sling, WCM, DAM, Package Manager, CRXDE, OSGI, Apache Jackrabbit, LearnDot, Salesforce, Eloqua, Apache JMeter, Grunt and Workflows. AEM developer Chase Bank - Columbus, OH May 2016 to March 2017 J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., doing business as Chase Bank, is a national bank headquartered in Manhattan, New York City, that constitutes the consumer and commercial banking subsidiary of the U.S. multinational banking and financial services holding company,    Responsibilities:  • Managing Adobe AEM Environment (CQ Authors and CQ publishers)  • Developed AEM templates, components, workflows, OSGI bundles.  • Design, Developed and implemented web pages using AEM, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and jQuery.  • Used Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE) in entire project development.  • Utilized REST, Java, Sling, AEM and JavaScript for custom coding.  • Enhanced AEM personalization engine to surface the AEM content on portal using JavaScript and Sling script based on segment and LDAP user profile attributes.  • Developed complex components with dialog on AEM.  • Created POC related to AEM design and implementation.  • Run weekly builds as per completion of development cycle.  • Used GIT as version control and Jenkins for weekly/biweekly build.  • Used and managed JIRA and Confluence for Bug tracking, project tracking and team work  • Used JSTL Tag library for processing attributes on the web page.  • Coordinate security review and ensure security standards are followed.  • Designed and Participated test plans with QA staff for unit, system and integration testing  • Configuring Dispatchers, Flushing Dispatcher cache, CQ server optimization, CQ Log analyzing and Garbage collector.  • CQ packages deployment from one environment to another environment. (Development server, INT server, Staging or Preview server and Production server)  • Used Ajax to call JSON Objects and display in dropdowns in JSP's  • Worked on Multi Site Manager to develop live copy from blueprint, such as structure and content then can be used as live copy and Worked on i18n translations.  • Worked on implementing Responsive design on AEM platform using frameworks like Bootstrap and Foundation.  • Provide estimates and specifications for AEM templates, components, and workflows.    Environment: Java JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Ajax, JQuery, AEM 5.6 (WCM), Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, Jackrabbit Web developer Hibu - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2012 to December 2016 Description: Hibu, in the past Yell Group plc, is a global indexes and internet providers organization headquartered in Reading, Berkshire, UK. It has activities in the United Kingdom (known as Yell), the United States, and Spain (known as Paginas Amarillas) . It has its starting points in the business repository division of the privatized British broadcast communications administrator BT Group.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing and maintaining internal and external facing Web Applications.  • Follow architecture principles and development standards set by the group to convey brilliant UI code that will keep running over different programs with superior.  • Integrate with middleware platform by consuming RESTful services utilizing JSON.  • Broadly had required to use HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, jQuery and traditional JavaScript.  • Built up all the portal applications in Backbone.js, Node.js and jQuery to accomplish JavaScript MVC standards.  • Engaged with Designing database and executing the database base objects utilizing MySQL.  • Advanced the site, checked error logs, and recognized and settled potential issues.  • Made new UIs and enhanced existing ones.  • Composed SQL Queries to collaborate with Oracle database.  • Worked with production team to implement UI and make improvements to upgrade client encounter.  • Troubleshoot style issues, program similarity issues.  • Created classes to empower make diverse functionalities.  • Created CSS classes to GUI site page controls and structures.  • Take an interest in implementing, testing and conveying UI application utilizing agile methodologies.    Environment: Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery UI, SASS, CSS3, HTML, JSP, SASS, JSON, Visual Studio Code. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), jQuery (7 years), HTML (7 years), HTML5 (7 years), SQL, SQL Server, XML Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Content Management System/Software AEM5.6, AEM 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, CQ5 DAM.  Programming Language Java, J2EE, C, SQL  IDE NetBeans, Eclipse, and CRXDE  Web Application Frameworks Apache Sling, Apache Felix  Application Servers Tomcat 7, WebLogic, IBM Web sphere application server, WebSphere Portal Server.  Web technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/ CSS3, JavaScript, Sightly, Bootstrap, DHTML, XHTML, JQuery, Angular Js, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Ajax, REST, API, SOAP  Defect Tracking Tool JIRA, Bugzilla.  Databases SQL Server, MYSQL, DB2  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Jenkins  Version Control System Git, SVN.