Cybersecurity Researcher Cybersecurity Researcher Rockville, MD Technology enthusiast with cybersecurity experience. Friendly, resourceful, and understanding.  Pays attention to detail, dedicated, and willing to learn. Noted self-starter and problem solver. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cybersecurity Researcher Self-Employed - Germantown, MD May 2011 to June 2014 Worked with major corporations to identify security issues involving their websites. Wrote  written reports and created videos demonstrating the security flaws and reported them through appropriate channels.    Accomplishments:  • Featured on PayPal's Wall of Fame Honorable Mention page for assistance in 2013.  • Received recognition for assistance by PayPal in 2013 and 2014 and Yahoo in 2014. Web Developer, Content Writer Self-Employed - Germantown, MD May 2011 to June 2014 Developed, maintained, and wrote content for several niche websites with WordPress and optimized them for search engines. Promoted products relevant to the niche. Sold advertising  space to third parties. Wrote content for businesses. Web Developer Self-Employed, Cybersecurity Research - Bethesda, MD November 2004 to March 2006 Created and maintained several websites. Worked with third parties to generate traffic and deliver targeted advertisements to visitors. Courtesy Clerk Safeway - Bethesda, MD October 2001 to January 2003 Assisted customers with the checkout process, helped customers find items within the store, and was responsible for keeping the store and surroundings clean and orderly. Education Associate's in General Studies Montgomery College - Germantown, MD 2007 to 2010 Skills Knowledge of the Internet, Cybersecurity, Registrars, and ISPs. Experience with Content Management Systems and Social Media. Troubleshooting hardware and software issues. Able to adapt to and learn new technologies quickly. Typing speed of over 100 words per minute. Strong verbal and written communication. Empathy, consistency, and patience. Able to accept direction and feedback. Additional Information 3.76 GPA during college. Graduated with Honors. On Dean’s List for five semesters.