Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - VF Corporation Greensboro, NC • Extensive experience in developing Web interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, Javascript, Jquery, Angular-JS and Backbone-JS.  • Having strong development experience in User Interface applications and integration of highly transactional and scalable applications using Object Oriented Analysis and design.  • Very good understanding of Object Oriented Design (OOD), Design Patterns, Core Java concepts multithreading, concurrency, J2EE Design Pattersns, MVC, Struts multi-tier architectures and distributed architectures.  • Hands on experience in installing and configuring, deploying, and managing web enterprise applications on BEA Weblogic Server 8.x/9.x and JBoss application servers.  • Experienced in working with ORM frameworks such as JPA, Hibernate and Mybatis with Spring framework.  • Extensively worked on Spring and its related modules such as AOP, MVC, Security, Core, Data, Batch and transaction management.  • Experienced in developing Microservices with Spring Boot, Spring REST, Spring Cloud, Eureka, API-Gateway etc.  • Experience with SDLC and Agile SCRUM development methodology.  • Good experience in defining the XML schemas and in working with XML parsers to read and validate the data held in XML documents.  • Hands on experience in Coding, Testing, Implementation/Maintenance Support in PHP and MySQL. Hands on experience in using CakePHP/Codeigniter Framework to develop a web application.  • Experienced in build tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle and using them with continuous integration tools like Jenkins to create and publish application artifacts.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery CD pipeline with Docker, Jenkins, and GitHub. Whenever a new GitHub branch gets started, continuous integration server such as Jenkins attempts to create a new Docker container from it automatically.  • Experience with Test Driven Development and leveraging development best practices.  • Created POC's using Node-JS, Mongo-db, Express-JS and Body-Parser to create REST services.  • Created web services and desktop applications to access and display data needed by support teams using AJAX, JavaScript, Sencha EXT-JS, CSS3 and HTML5.  • Experienced in developing applications using Angular-JS, Bootstrap-JS like grids, tool bars, panels, combo-box and buttons etc. and experienced in performing Responsive web design using Bootstrap and CSS3 Media queries.  • Designed, architected and implemented MVC framework with NodeJS, ExpressJS and AngularJS (MEAN stack) based single page web tools and deployed in MongoDB assisting the trades of services.  • Participated in all aspects of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Production troubleshooting, Software testing using Standard Test Tool.  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using AGILE SCRUM methodology.  • Excellent conceptual base in Implementation Methodologies, Design Patterns, and Web based Architecture using web technologies like JSP, Servlets and Struts.  • Developed many distributed, transactional, portable applications using Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) architecture for Java 2 Enterprise Edition (J2EE) platform.  • Experience working on modern networking concepts and various file transfer protocols (SFTP, FTPS, SCP, FTP).  • Efficient in deploying applications using IBM Web Sphere, Web logic App Server, JBOSS and Tomcat Web Server. Experienced in resolving Java applications and webserver issues using troubleshooting techniques.  • Implemented procedures for configuration and deployment of production JBoss applications. Conducted investigation, analysis and resolution methods of performance issues relating to production applications.  • Good understanding of NoSQL Database and hands on work experience in writing application on No SQL database which is MongoDB.  • Involved in developing Unix scripts for a higher level of Automation for the Data loading process of the research database.  • Experience with message routing using Apache Camel with Java configuration  • Enhanced the existing Unix scripts to achieve better performance and throughput.  • Involved in the Daily maintenance of Research database that involved monitoring the daily run of the scripts as well as troubleshooting in the event of any errors in the entire process.  • Developed new monitoring and reporting scripts shell as well as enhanced existing ones.  • Years of accumulated talent and professional experience in PHP programming. Excellent knowledge of developing web services and relations databases.  • Experience in working with Version Control Tools like Rational Team Concert, Harvest, ClearCase, SVN, and Git-hub.  • Experience in working with Web/Application Servers like Web logic, JBoss and Tomcat Servers and databases such as Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server 6.5/7.0.  • Involvement in using various IDE's, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Eclipse, Net Beans, Microsoft Visual Extensive experience in developing Web Services to expose useful functionality to web users through SOAP and REST.  • Excellent verbal, written and interpersonal skills with equally strong presentation skills and the ability to communicate effectively at all levels in the organization.  • Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer VF Corporation - Greensboro, NC August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed the system for the subsidiary Wrangler using Java 8, JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate 4.3, Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular-UI etc  • Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation using Angular-JS, Ajax, Bootstrap, Java Script and HTML.  • Implemented Reporting SPAs using Angular 2, Angular Directives, Bootstrap, CSS3, LESS, Glyphicons and Gulp.  • Performed usability testing for the client's webpages with use of STLC.  • Developed an AngularJS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows.  • Involved in creating Angular controllers, services, filters and configured Routing using Angular UI router.  • Created popup forms using Bootstrap Modals, AngularJS Models and AngularJS Controllers  • Created Multiple Views as well as Nested Views with the help of Angular Js ui-view & ui-sref.  • Experience in Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS, created Multiple & Nested Views, Routing, Controllers, Services and Custom Directives, Node.js, Bower, Grunt.  • Developed REST services using Spring Boot, Spring REST and Spring security and involved in creating REST controllers, Controller advices etc.  • Used Elastic search framework for easy access of data.  • Use of Apache Camel and Active MQ for routing JMS messages between services  • Developed Spring AOP aspects for logging and exception handling and involved in integrating Spring with Hibernate.  • Using Apache Flume, collected and stored streaming data(log data) in HDFS.  • Used Node Js in building dynamic web pages and in performing asynchronous I/O using event-driven architecture.  • Performed ORM mappings with Hibernate and implemented Spring transaction management in the application.  • Developed Batch jobs using Spring Batch and scheduled the jobs using Spring scheduling.  • Focused on the middle-level development of the client application for creating automated reports from the UI.  • Consumed SOAP web services and RESTful JSON web services to create the automated report  • Wrote Jasmine unit tests to test Angular.js  • Experience using Android Studio in order to develop the mobile version of the same app.  • Used Android Studio for development and Dalvik Debug Monitor Server, Android Virtual Device, and Android Debug Bridge as debugging tool  • Developed unit test cases and functional test cases using JUnit.  • Ensure the app is quickly launched and delivered with high quality on Google Play.  • Guided all the API users on how to make use of the methods and also validated the whole system using Java.  • Involved in setting up Test automation and developed cucumber feature files and used Selenium for automated testing with Testing.  Environment: Agile, Java 8, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Elastic search framework, hibernate 4.3, Spring AOP, Spring, JDMC, JMS, JBoss EAP 6.x, Angular JS, MongoDB, Oracle 11g, XML, DOZER mapping, SAX, DOM, JAXB, WSDL, SOAP, REST, Java Script, BootStrap, SASS, JQuery, Gradle, Apache Camel, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, Gradle, RESTful, AWS, SOAP UI, Rational Quality Manager. Sr. Java Developer Phoenix, AZ November 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Redesign and maintain existing internal web application utilizing HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Wrote code to ensure that the application is cross browser compatibility as per the requirements  • Developed front end web applications using Backbone.js, Sass and other front end libraries and frameworks  • Experience in jQuery frameworks in AJAX-driven websites using proxy to get the data from the back-end in the form of JSON and XML to populate on the UI components.  • Developed mockups and prototypes using HTML5 and CSS3. Designed new classes and functionalities using various jQuery components for CRM application for customer service.  • Developed UI using HTML 5, Bootstrap, jQuery, and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Worked with Python to develop the application.  • Implemented the workflows using Apache Oozie framework to automate tasks.  • Good experience in developing web applications using Spring Boot framework implementing Action and Integrating the front end UI to the back end using the same.  • Controllers, Action Forms, Spring validation Framework Spring Tag Libraries  • Extensive experience working with the Microservices architecture.  • Extensive experience in jQuery, jQuery plugins, AJAX, dynamic HTML and JSON.  • Experience with JSON, SOAP and Restful API invocations.  • Used Scala as the back end framework to develop the application.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery Scripting.  • Development of website GUI & functionality with jQuery & JavaScript.  • Experience with architecture, design and development of Single Page Web Applications using Angular and React JS.  • Used light weight web server like Nginx and JBoss.  • Created POC's using Node-JS, Mongo-db, Express-JS and Body-Parser to create REST services.  • Used DB2 as relational database and querying a wide range of application development.  • Performing statistical data analysis, exploring data to building high-quality models and deducing consequences.  • Extensive experience in using AWS Lambda in event-driven application development and in triggering custom HTTP requests.  • Followed the SEO principles in developing the application.  • Integrated Apache Storm with Kafka to perform web analytics. Uploaded click stream data from Kafka to Hdfs, Hbase and Hive by integrating with Storm.  • Experience in testing the application using Selenium, Junit, Jasmine.  • Extensively used SQL programming language for querying in Unix environment.  • Developed Mobile and RWD (Responsive Web Design) web pages using Bootstrap for Android & iOS SDK.  • Used AngularJS 1.5 for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Used Drools as rules engine in building the applications.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Experience in using Cake PHP/Code igniter Framework to develop the web application.  • Extensive experience in using the RDBMS database for querying.  • Experience working with Adobe CMS in developing responsive web applications.  • Worked on basic frontend prototypes and page design with HTML, CSS, Adobe fireworks, Adobe flash, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator and Java scripting, created prototypes based on static and approved wireframes using human factor designs and different layout techniques.  • Followed TDD/BDD approach throughout the project.  • Created components like Grid, Panels, Toolbars, button and Combo-box etc.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.    Environment: Java, JavaScript, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, PHP, Nginx, JMS, Mongo DB, Selenium, Junit, JBoss, Jasmine, Drools, Jenkins, Express JS, Linux, Angular JS 1.5,SOAP, HTML5,Scala, CSS3, JSON, AJAX, DB2, Bootstrap, TDD, SQL, React JS, AWS, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, CVS, Rational Rose, SVN, MVC, DOM, Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, JUnit, MS Visio, Oracle, Window. Web Developer ICICI Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • We have followed with Agile and Scrum development methodologies  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP Pages.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Perform edits in WordPress on existing clients' websites  • Used the multithreading and concurrency concepts of Core Java in developing the application.  • Worked with source code control systems like GIT and JIRA.  • Eventually apply knowledge of HTML, CSS, & other languages in the WordPress framework to achieve required customization, if necessary  • Used Custom AngularJS Filters to provide better search experience.  • Implemented AngularJS Factories and Controllers to manipulate and view employee task data.  • Used AngularJS HTTP methods to retrieve employee task data from entity models.  • Using Drupal created prototypes as well for call functionalities.  • Worked with JavaScript toolkits like jQuery, Angular.JS, Dojo Toolkit  • Tested and optimized production performance using dojo toolkit  • Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, jQuery, Web Service call and JSON.  • Experience of working in .NET environment for developing the application.  • Experience working with SAS analytics development in preparing the reports, analysis and dashboards.  • Developed predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  • Used advanced level of HTML, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using Google's Angular.JS, Backbone.JS, MVC framework (which means JavaScript, HTML, and CSS), jQuery, Require.JS, JSP and Ajax.  • Worked with different design patterns like singleton etc.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table less design following W3C standards.  • Worked with business analysts to understand their business models and goals.  • Created admin automated tools which make easily add, update, delete of content using PHP  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript and hand coding of HTML and CSS3.  • Used Ajax extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Worked in the Java Environment with framework Hibernate and used Oracle as database.  • Created PHP/Ajax schedule task list for mobile browsers.  • Experience of using Selenium for automated testing.  • Used Docker as a container for the application.  • Used the Relational database MongoDB for querying and storage.  • Participated in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  • Designed and developed custom jQuery components for the front end client side validations.  • Worked with Mongo DB for document databases and the working nature of MongoDB in the project like storage of documents using Mongo DB.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used methods and properties.    Environment: Core Java, JMS, JNDI, HTML, .NET, jQuery, DFAST, Docker, WordPress, JavaScript, Angular.JS, Backbone.JS, Bootstrap, CSS3, Require.JS, MongoDB, AJAX, JSP, PHP, Dojo, JSON, Hibernate, Chrome, Firefox, Adobe Flash, MS Access, MS Office, IE and Oracle. Jr. Java Developer Imaginate Software Labs Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Participated in all phases of the project life cycle beginning from Analysis till Implementation.  • Application was developed using Core Java, JSP and Servlets.  • Gained hands on experience in using the Multithreading.  • Used SOAP web services.  • Developed and handled the entire User Registration module both frontend and backend  • Involved in the design and implementation of User Interface using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Used JDBC for database connectivity to SQL Server.  • Used Eclipse as Java IDE tool for creating JSPs, Servlets and XML  • Prepared Low Level Design (LLD) and Unit test plans (UTP) for our modules of the project.  • Involved in Internal Code Reviews  • Involved in bug fixes & enhancements  • Supported UAT (User Acceptance Test) and participated in the team that deployed the application in Testing and Production Environments    Environment: Core Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, HTML, CSS, SOAP, Java Script, Eclipse, CVS, SQL Server, Windows XP, Tomcat, XML, Log4J, Usability, ANT, STRUTS, JUNIT, JSP, JSTL, Ajax, Servlets, WebSphere, Rational Rose. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (5 years), Apache (4 years), HTML. (5 years), Java (5 years), JMS (4 years), Agile, Java 8, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Elastic search framework, hibernate 4.3, Spring AOP, Spring, JDMC, JMS, JBoss EAP 6.x, Angular JS, MongoDB, Oracle 11g, XML, DOZER mapping, SAX, DOM, JAXB, WSDL, SOAP, REST, Java Script, BootStrap, SASS, JQuery, Gradle, Apache Camel, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, Gradle, RESTful, AWS, SOAP UI, Rational Quality Manager (8 years), Node, React, Javascript, Angular, PHP Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems RHEL/CentOS 5.x/6.x/7, Ubuntu/Debian/Fedora, Sun Solaris 7/8/9/10, Windows Server 2003/2008/2012  Web/Java Technologies  HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON,  Apache, Sass, Less, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Servlets, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, log4j, Node.JS Junit, DOM JSP, JSF, EJB, JMS, AJAX, SOAP, RESTFUL, XML, DHTML, HTTP, HTTPS, JSON, Query, JSP    Web Services SOAP, RESTFUL, Web sockets, MQ  Programming Languages C, C++, Java, Html, Java Script, XML, JDBC, Servlets, JSP.  Web Application Server Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere, Microsoft IIS, HIS, Oracle WebLogic  IDE/Development Tools Eclipse, IBM RAD, Net Beans, Brackets, JetBrains, WebStorm, IntelliJ, IBM RSA, IBM Rational Rose, Maven, ANT, Postman  Databases Oracle 11i/10g, MySQL, IBM DB2, MongoDB, Cassandra, SQL Server  Version Control Tools Subversion, GIT, Tortoise SVN, Visual SVN  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, Fisheye, IBM Clear Quest, Bugzilla, HP Quality Centre  Build/Automation tools Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Ant, Maven, Jenkins/Hudson, Bamboo