Sr. PHP/Drupal Developer Sr. PHP/Drupal <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. PHP/Drupal Developer - BMO Harris Detroit, MI • Over 7+ years of experience in PHP development with creation of websites and enterprise application using LAMP, PHP, Drupal, WORDPRESS.  • Drupal Architect/ Developer with over 5 years of experience working on migration and other web and API development projects. Strong expertise on DRUPAL 3- LAYER ARCHITECHTURE.  • Areas of expertise include object-oriented PHP, SQL SERVER, MYSQL (LAMP / WAMP stack), XML, Web service.  • 4+ years designing, building & supporting complex DRUPAL web applications for large consumer focused websites. Used DRUPAL 6, 7, 8.  • Proficient in building User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML/HTML5, XHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, React.js, AJAX, JSON, XML, Twitter Bootstrap.  • Working experience on CSS background, CSS positioning, CSS Text, CSS Broder, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, pseudo classes, pseudo elements.  • Experience working with CSS compilers like SASS/SCSS and LESS.  • Highly experienced with modern JS frameworks and libraries like AngularJS and jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Experienced in solving issues in web browsers, following the W3C standards to maintain the website with defect free.  • Extensive experience in design, analysis, development, Version Control and Production Support of full life cycle or SDLC experience, multi-tier, database and script-based in web-based & desktop applications.  • Created New Templates for the administrator areas with various options to be implemented Using Drupal.  • Developed custom Drupal Theme to effectively address business requirements.  • Used SQL queries to update and retrieve needed information from the Database.  • Experienced in various IDEs like Eclipse, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Microsoft Visual Studio.  • Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML and MVC Architecture and also have experience in using version control (SVN).  • Experience in Web API to build REST based interfaces.  • Extensive experience in working with Eclipse, My Eclipse, Toad and Version Controls such as CVS.  • Creative Knowledge in Art creation, modification and conversion- Logos, print media, web page and software interface design using Photoshop, Adobe Flash and Illustrator.  • Extensively used JavaScript, Angular.js and Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) technologies to build dynamic web contents with high performance.  • Designed and developed relational database systems and Client/Server applications.  • Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc.  • Excellent troubleshooting, debugging and problem solving skills for technical issue.  • Specialties in Accessible Web design and development, W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines.  • Strong Analytical, Problem Solving and debugging skills with excellent understanding of system development metrics, techniques and tools.  • Experience on developing which also includes web services like Web, REST, RESTFUL API'S etc. with the help of WSDL, SOAP and JAX-WS, MongoDB and AWS to get updates from the third parties.  • Experience in developing Ext-JS components like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, and Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Passionate to create an excellent work environment through coordination and co-operation with the team members and other departments  • Good communication skills, Interpersonal skills and strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members. Work Experience Sr. PHP/Drupal Developer BMO Harris - Chicago, IL August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developing PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS ecommerce application pages according to project requirements.  • Create custom Drupal 8 modules using PHP, MySQL and JavaScript and configure required contributed Modules.  • Collate functional, non-functional requirements and business requirements of applications and design the AWS cloud architecture that integrates with existing infrastructure without issues.  • Migration of Drupal7 to 8 version and Involved in developing new features as enhancements and Developing responsive theme using Html, JQuery, JSON, CSS, and SASS to support devices.  • Carried out extensive verification and testing in order to set MySQL database free from SQL injections throughout course of database development and management.  • Developed various sections using AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Velocity, Ajax, Json and Spring web service  • Worked on UNIX/Linux, MVC, Subversion, CVS, Git, Zend, CakePHP, CodeIgniter Framework, Wordpress, and LAMP toolset.  • Involved in positioning, architecting and delivering solutions around AWS cloud, and Data Center consolidation and migrations and maintaining websites using Drupal 7/8 on Amazon EC2 and Rackspace  • Build AJAX pages using PHP to display current server time and involved in the development using JQuery and PHP and designed applications in AJAX with rich user interfaces.  • Development experience with Zend, NetBeans, Notepad++, JEdit  • Designed and developed multiuser, 3-tier MVC web-application (Apache, PHP5, Oracle12c, j Query, j Query UI, Java script/JSON) for describing whole infrastructure.  • Involved in Re-Skinning of website development in Drupal 8.4 and developed custom modules to support system and modification and customization of the Drupal and WordPress themes.  • Efficient, cost effective, secure, and scalable AWS cloud design based on business requirements.  • Worked with MySQL which includes configuration, query optimization, full-text search indexing and de-normalization Expert in handling the administration of MySQL database using PHPMyAdmin.  • Performed image/graphic slicing and optimization using Adobe Photoshop and developed and design security token for in order to verify only valid users can request to API.  • Worked on Stack ZendPHP, Apache Web Server, SVN, Oracle, JavaScript, jQuery and worked on HTML5/CSS and jQuery in a Drupal based CMS environment  • Creating MySQL database queries for websites on Drupal 8 Application Framework and extensive development experience in using Drupal 8 with custom themes  • Used JIRA, Stash, Bamboo, Confluence Project development tools  • Excellent work done in writing queries, stored procedures, triggers and functions in SQL Server, Oracle, DB2 etc.  • Developed multiple POCs to create an interface between Backend to Frontend by using Mongo DB, Express JS, Angular JS and Node.js, React.js  • Used Express.JS to route different endpoints, made services RESTful and used Sequelize.JS to manipulate data in MySQL.  • Setting up servers on Rackspace and Amazon AWS to host company websites and Managing Cloud server at AWS EC2 Cloud servers and using reserved instances to deploy  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting and used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Custom module development in Drupal8, Website development in Drupal8, Module integration & theme integration, Multilingual & multi-domain redirections handling using custom module.  • Worked with Symfony, design patterns like singleton pattern, registry pattern and model -view-controller pattern in Zend framework.  • Developed multiple POCs to create an interface between Backend to Frontend by using Mongo DB, Express JS, Angular JS and Node.js, React.js and developed powerful visualization components and DOM manipulation using D3.js, React JS, Ext js.  • UI Screens were developed using HTML5, Java Scripts, Ajax, JQuery Custom-tags, Polymer js, Kendo UI components and CSS3.  • Used SVN to maintain current and historical versions of files such as source code and web pages.  • Working in Linux development server with continuous integration environment using tools like web is trano and Jenkins.    Environment: PHP 7.2, Drupal 8.4, J Query, Zend 2, Order management, CSS3, Python, My SQL, Google map API V3, Html5, JavaScript, Laravel 5.5, UX designing, Java/J2EE, JMS, XML, SOAP, REST, Spring Framework, WSDL, Cloud deployment, AWS, AWS Cloud, AWS EC2, AWS S3, Node.js, Angular.js/2, Express.js, Mongo DB and Jenkins. Sr. Drupal Developer Altice USA, NY April 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing and implementing new features and functionality.  • Working with multiple Drupal sites for Optimum.net and Optimum.com  • Enhanced the current Drupal Site with custom and contributed modules using agile methodology.  • Work closely with front-end developers to ensure an affective, visually appealing, functional and intuitive implementation.  • Created REST services to export Drupal data in a JSON format varnish ESI calls.  • Configured Varnish for caching.  • Using JIRA to track all the new tasks, issues and the backlogs.  • Use the Drush commands extensively for the development and deployment.  • Used PHPMYADMIN for MySQL connectivity and management.  • Maintain and improve website design and development.  • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production.  • Maintained and supported existing applications built on the Drupal platform ensuring site availability.  • Support For all Drupal Sites when there's any Drupal Core Security Updates.    Environment: PHP5, Drupal 7/8, JavaScript, HTML5/CSS3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Apache web server, REST API. PHP / Drupal Developer Verizon, CA February 2014 to March 2016 Verizon is an American broadband and Telecommunications Company, the largest U.S. wireless communication service provider as of September 2014.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Drupal-based website, including: Content types, Views and other functional requirements.  • Worked on Web Form Security for Forms authentication of user's registration.  • Worked on an open-source CMS to build website using Drupal7.  • Designed forms and user interfaces for administrator, supervisor and employee using Drupal and CSS.  • Created DRUPAL modules for quick approvals, billing and pay rates, custom reporting and payroll Integration.  • Extensively worked on efficient Drupal websites and Drupal development technologies such as Drush, Features, Panels, Services, and Context.  • Involved in implementing MVC architecture to segregate business logic from the view using OOP in PHP 5.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Used PHPMYADMIN for MySQL connectivity and management.  • Maintain and improve website design and development.  • Created report generator that queried the MYSQL database for user-specified information.  • Used AngularJS including authoring complex directives, services, controllers, and filters.  • Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using Angular.JS.  • Implemented Bootstrap in developing UI.  • Deployed the application software on the Linux Server via Juniper router configuration.  • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production.  • Used JQuery to make the HTML5, DHTML and CSS3 to interact with the JavaScript functions. Created pages in Mockups and validated the HTML code with W3C Validator. Involved in fixing Front-End issues with the layouts.    Environment: PHP5, JavaScript, Zend Framework, HTML5/CSS3, Angular.JS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Apache web server, LINUX PHP Web Developer Kohl's Corporation - Menomonee Falls, WI March 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed/Design the application using LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) architecture Communicated with client to fetch requirement and analyse requirement for developing functionality accordingly.  • Integrated existing Word Press modules as well as created custom themes, modules, views, functions and hooks.  • Provided access to authenticated as well as anonymous as authenticated users to create blogs, post comments in Word Press.  • Developed LARAVEL application for managing Google analytics test.  • Used ZEND-Debugger for the error resolutions.  • Building the website from scratch in APTANA.  • Implemented Bootstrap in developing UI.  • Conceived and designed database tables in MYSQL.  • Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using UI and MVC architecture.  • Extensively worked with JQuery UI for Effects.  • Designed theme using HTML /XHTML, CSS.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while following code standards  • Used php My Admin to handle the administration of MYSQL over the World Wide Web.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX etc.  • Tracked and fixed bugs that were found during various phases of developments.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style mark-up presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Created the screens with table-less designs emphasizing W3C standards.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, CSS floats, cross browser compatibility and CSS behaviours in CSS.    Environment: PHP5, JavaScript, Zend Framework, HTML5/CSS3, Angular.JS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Apache web server, LINUX. Web Developer Verizon - New York, NY May 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and documented all UI components for the application in accordance with business requirements using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax.  • Performed full life-cycle development, planning and integration of web-based software solution using PHP, Word Press, JavaScript, java, AJAX, and MySQL.  • Daily content change migrations as per Business requirement, such as creating forms, updating the existing forms to accept improvised validations.  • Worked on page load optimization, unit testing and implemented SEO.  • Built AJAX pages using PHP and created various asynchronous web applications.  • Integrating user-facing elements by front-end developers.  • Involved in setting up and maintaining Word Press servers.  • Worked on building custom Word Press plugins.  • Involved in developing Word Press themes and plugins.  • Worked on Linux Environment and familiar with VI editor and file operations in Linux.  • Good knowledge in REST APIs and their integration to Word Press.  • Installed and worked with Subversion for versioning control.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, PHP, Servlets, AJAX, JSON, XML, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools. Education Bachelor's Skills APACHE (8 years), HTML5 (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), jQuery (8 years), MYSQL (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages PHP, Java, JavaScript  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap  CMS/Frameworks: Drupal7/8, Word press, Zend, LAMP/WAMP stack.  IDEs worked on: Eclipse IDE, Web Storm  Source code Editors Sublime, Notepad++  Application Servers: Tomcat Apache Server, HTTP Web Server  Tools GIT, SVN  Database MySQL, Microsoft SQL SERVER  Browser All (IE, Firefox, Opera, Chrome, Safari)