Sr. UI/ Web Developer Sr. UI/<span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI/ Web Developer - Fiserv Alpharetta, GA • Skilled and experienced UI developer with over 8+ years in developing responsive and cross platform front-end web application.  • Hands on experience in creating and refreshing a site page utilizing AngularJS, Angular (2-6), React JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery crosswise over different programs and consequently accomplishing cross program similarity.  • Proficiency in using DOM, AJAX, JSON, responsive web design, Bootstrap 4, for designing web sites.  • Extensive experience in developing software products using Methodologies such as Agile and Waterfall Model.  • Experience with web development mark-up and scripting languages such as HTML5, jQuery, XML, JavaScript and XSLT.  • Have strong experience in Web Services using SOAP and Restful API'S which are well used for building the communication between two systems.  • Experience using Object Oriented concepts in enhancing the performance of websites related to AngularJS and Node JS.  • Strong experience in using debugging tool like Firebug, Chrome Developer tool and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Have a good experience in using JIRA Tool for Bug Tracking.  • Experienced with Wireframes for developing the layout and functionality on a page.  • Extensive experience in maintaining the source code and documentation by using CVS, SVN and GIT.  • Experienced in using SQL, MySQL, Database Design, Storage Procedures, and triggers on using SQL Server.  • Experience in creating and utilizing components related to React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Good experience in React.js for creating interactive UI'S using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, and React Native concepts.  • Experienced in developing React.js pages, web services and Ajax calls for the applications used in development of the web application to blind the data.  • Experience in creating Templates, Web Interfaces, Layouts, Prototypes with Adobe and Mock-Ups.  • Strong understanding in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC), and Methodologies like Waterfall and Agile/SCRUM.  • Have a good experience in utilizing AngularJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Scope content.  • Experience in Cross browser compatibility for implementing browsers like Safari, Firefox, Opera, IE and Chrome.  • Extensive experience in developing User Interface ( UI) with MVC frameworks such as AngularJS, Node JS, and Ember JS.  • Implemented RESTFUL microservices using spring boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Eureka, Spring Zuul, Spring Feign, Spring Hysterix, Ribbon and consumed using spring REST services using Spring Rest Template.  • Installing and Configuring and troubleshooting Linux Operating Systems.  • Knowledge with JS mobile frameworks like Native app using Native Script and Angular, React Native, Apache Cordova and Ionic.  • Experience in using Testing frameworks in Test Driven Development (TDD) such as Protractor, Cucumber, and Selenium.  • Used Test Driven Development (TDD) as part of agile process.  • Experienced in implementing various jQuery UI Controls and corresponding Event Handlers.  • Experience in using Responsive Web design with Media Queries, SASS and LESS.  • Strong communication skills for interacting with the team, outstanding problem solving, strong focus on teamwork, result oriented and data analysis skills.  • Extensive experience in interacting with clients/users to gather the user requirements.  • Easily adaptable to the work conditions and consistently deliver the quality work and Capable of adapting to new technologies and can face any new challenge that exist in the project. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI/ Web Developer Fiserv - Alpharetta, GA February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Experience using the following UI or UX design tools: Photoshop, Illustrator, AdobeXD, HTML to depict the user experience in journey maps, flow diagrams, responsive web frameworks, data visualization, mockups, and prototypes.  • Experience in Leading projects to launch effectively within time and resource constraints that use the Agile/Scrum methodology, System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Web Contact Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and section 508 compliance requirements  • Implementing and executing on all phases related to whiteboard/elaborations to help conceptualize designs; HTML-based mock-ups demonstrating overall UX design; translation of user feedback and business requirements into design solutions; and visual presentations and UI designs through UX principles.  • Experience in Demonstrating abilities and/or a proven record of success with managing design solutions related to transforming abstract concepts into well-developed, polished user experience-based software solutions and deliverables, while operating in a fast-paced, open and collaborative environment.  • Experience in Utilizing design-based software (i.e. Adobe CC- Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, AdobeXD) in conjunction with web and accessibility standards, such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript frameworks, ES5 when developing user-interface prototypes and deliverables.  • Experience in Designing low-fidelity and high-fidelity mockups, interaction models, user task flows, visual designs, and UI documentation/annotations that promote ease of use and improve the user experience.  • Used JQuery to make HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to a webpage.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP/HTML and used CSS for style setting of Web Pages.  • Knowledge in following technical fields: Scratch, Programming in Python, Java, Web development (HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript), Mobile app development (Android, iOS)  • Experience in Core JavaScript skills including ES5, ES6 or TypeScript  • Basic Knowledge in microservices principles.  • Experience in developing high performing, resilient Python applications that operate within a larger architecture.  • Extensive experience in Development, Implementation and testing in various application architectures, including E-Commerce, Banking, B2B, Distributed Applications, Internet/Intranet.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node.js, Jasmine, Karma, Grunt, SCSS (SASS), Responsive Design, Photoshop, Windows OS, INVISION, REST console, Yeoman, Mongo DB, GULF. Sr. UI/ Web Developer Juniper Networks - Sunnyvale, CA September 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including Mobile, Tablet, and Desktop.  • Created different site page formats utilizing HTML and CSS, Bootstrap with center around client experience and consistence to gauges.  • Handled the change of the current undertaking written in JavaScript/jQuery to AngularJS.  • Handled program similarity issues in HTML, CSS and JavaScript for IE, Firefox and Chrome.  • Involved in developing page layouts, navigation, and animation Buttons and Icons.  • Responsible for implementing user interface designs from UI specifications and product requirements.  • For creating line and pie charts we used High-charts third-party library, and for some complex visualizations we explored D3.js.  • Responsible for managing the code repository through source version control tool GIT.  • Involved in working with CSS3 Background, Positioning, Text, and CSS3 Border.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with the backend Java code, AJAX and JSON via REST web services and APIs.  • Responsible for developing business logic along with connecting the application to server with REST web services.  • Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers with Linux, WebLogic etc.  • Involved in using Agile/Scrum methodology of Software Development.  • Responsible in working with the AngularJS custom qualities for DOM controls.  • Worked with Spring MVC and Hibernate in the backend to assemble the business rationale.  • Wrote and expended Restful Web Service brings in both JSON and XML groups.  • Responsible for maintaining cross browser compatibility issues with Styles, Layouts and fixed bugs for supported platforms and browsers.  • Involved in co-ordination with Software Engineering teams for interactions between Mobile UI and back-end Staff.    Environment: HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, XML, JSON, LESS, Karma/Jasmine, Eclipse. UI Developer Wyndham - Orlando, FL April 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Experience in JavaScript frameworks/libraries (React.js, Ember.js, Backbone.js, Angular.js, etc.)  • Experience in Node.js or another modern server side language.  • SQL knowledge (MySQL or PostgreSQL specifically, indexing, scaling, etc.)  • Experience in Building and maintaining RESTful APIs  • Experience in Full-stack development/application architecture  • Experienced in unit testing HTML5 ( web components, new multimedia and semantic elements etc.CSS3 (transitions and tools like LESS/SASS etc.)  • Experience with Bootstrap, Foundation, LESS or SASS, and jQuery  • Experience working in an Agile environment helpful. Experience with Git helpful Portfolio of work explaining the approach and solving the problems.  • Used ng-table, ng-grid and various types of Angular Directives.  • Used all aspects of AngularJS like "Routing", "modularity", "Dependency injection", "Service calls" and "custom directives". strings rendered in UI  • Used various AngularJS filters against data sets to filter and formatted data currency,  • Involved in the search for errors, broken links and missing images etc. and rectify.  • Experience in checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.UsedJIRA for Defect tracking.  • Worked on jasmine test cases where unit test cases are written for Single Page Application (SPA) with AngularJS. Used GIT as version control system. Performed merging, fixed conflicts and pushed code commits to server.  • Worked on docker which is used to build virtual terminal.  • Experienced in docker which is used to enable API. Experienced in developing AngularJS projects with Web API  • Experience in Educating customers on the value proposition of AWS, and participate in deep architectural discussions to ensure solutions are designed for successful deployment in the cloud.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, React JS, Node JS, JSON, GULF, AJAX, SVN, MS Office, GIT, Bootstrap. UI Developer Conduent - Austin, TX June 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed and created intranet web applications utilizing Java, JavaScript and CSS.  • Involved in developing AngularJS services for reusable functionality.  • Developed front-end, cross-browser HTML/DHTML templates and all GUI features through HTML, CSS and jQuery.  • Responsible for deploying, designing and developing Cloud-based solution using core AWS Services.  • Maintained and developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages like HTML, CSS3 and JavaScript, with Jasmine framework.  • Responsible for coordinating with Business Analysts and after perfect analysis conducted feedback session.  • Involved in developing and designing the application using CSS3 and HTML5 achieved responsive layouts using Bootstrap grid system.  • Responsible for producing content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations, also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Involved in using JIRA tool for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  • In development of different styles used jQuery CSS selectors, toggles and hover functionality, ToolTip and Ajax Forms.  • In configuring web server plug-ins used Apache 2.2 for WebLogic application servers.  • Developed framework for templating and used Ember JS for Client-Side functionality.  • For maintaining the team in a proper way helped team members and provided technical assistance regarding client website, applications and user experiences.  • Performed application upgrades, patches, identities and troubleshoot bugs that involved Tuxedo, Tomcat and Apache.  • Used broadly AJAX idea of JavaScript utilizing the XML Http Request protest associate with outer administrations to send and get information in SOAP organize.  • Efficient in Using Configuring version controls like SVN, GIT.  • Analyzing the site movement and Search Engine Optimization.    Environment: AngularJS, LESS, AJAX, Apache, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, JIRA, Bootstrap, Jasmine, jQuery, AWS service, Emberjs, GIT. Software Developer HTC Global Services - IND February 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating documents like Functional Specification and System Design based on Business Requirement document provided by business analyst.  • Involved in writing code through cross browser of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer, Firefox.  • Participated in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  • Responsible for using IDE like JDeveloper to develop application and CVS for Version Control.  • Maintained and developed various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) by using Water fall Methodology.  • Wrote application level code to interact with APIs, web services using AJAX, JSON, and XML.  • Responsible for creating and executing Unit test cases using Jasmine and Juint.  • Involved in writing complex SQL queries by using joins, sub queries and later correlated sub queries to retrieve data from database.  • Created and Updated Database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, function, packages.  • Involved in developing various generic functions used JavaScript for validations also used SOAP UI for testing web services.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, jQuery, CSS and HTML.  • Created Classes, Methods for different functionalities and error handling, exception management features in the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to Git hub.  • Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Developed Web API using MVC framework for all business logic and exposed to the front-end interfaces.    Environment: HTML, CSS, SDLC, JavaScript, jQuery, Usability testing, SOAP, SQL, CVS, AJAX, Water fall Methodology, Jasmine, Git, MVC. Education Bachelor's Skills BOOTSTRAP (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), jQuery (8 years), HTML (7 years), AJAX (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, XML, XHTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Typescript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, ES6, Android, iOS, Windows    Other Technologies: Karma, Jasmine, Webpack, Grunt, Gulp, Bower, Protractor, Mocha, Agile methodologies, Jenkins, LESS, SASS.  JavaScript Libraries: React.js, Angular.js, Angular6/5/4/2, Polymer.js, Backbone.js, Node.js, D3.js, Express.js, Ionic.  IDE's and Tools: Eclipse IDE/3.X, HTTP web server, Apache Tomcat server 7.0.63, Sublime, VScode, Bracket.  Publishing Tools: Adobe PageMaker, MS Office  Wire Frame Tools: Adobe Illustrator CSS3 and Adobe Photoshop.  Debugging Tools: Firebug, Bugzilla, (internet explorer)  Database: PL/SQL (oracle), MySQL, MSSQL  Operating System: Windows NT4.0 XP/, LINUX, MAC OS X