ServiceNow Integrations & Applications Developer ServiceNow Integrations &amp; Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> ServiceNow Integrations & Applications Developer - Hexagon SI Madison, AL Work Experience ServiceNow Integrations & Applications Developer Hexagon SI - Huntsville, AL June 2018 to Present • Obtained a deep technical understanding of the ServiceNow Platform  • Attended ServiceNow Knowledge 2019 in Las Vegas for further ServiceNow development training  • Experienced with AWS platform, specifically S3.  • Designed an application within ServiceNow so that users can upload images directly from a ticket to a private AWS S3 bucket and display those images within ServiceNow in the form of a table.  • Designed REST integrations within ServiceNow for external ticketing systems, specifically Zendesk and Jira  • Integration experience with shipping platforms, specifically FedEx  • Web service client and server experience, JSON, Rest, AngularJS.  • Portal design experience within ServiceNow with custom widget creation  • Enabled Multi-SSO authentication for all companies within the Hexagon ServiceNow platform, including design of a new login page and user role-based secure redirection & company separation Technical Lead United States Chess Federation - Madison, AL May 2014 to June 2018 • Implemented the M2E Pro extension to our Magento platform. Since Implementation I have managed the eBay and Amazon stores and utilized SEO techniques to grow them to make up almost half of overall company revenue. Constantly monitored analytics to stay ahead of competitors.  • Managed all technical aspects of Magento integration, product addition, bug fixes, and customer focused user interface solutions.  • Managed and Coordinated with off-site developers to complete projects that vastly improved web search functions and overall website speed and responsiveness, including the mass resizing of web images and code optimization to create a responsive version of our websites.  • Managed the Graphic Design department and oversaw newsletter creation within Mailchimp for The House of Staunton, US Chess Sales, and the US Chess Federation.  • Grew the social media presence of the company by designing and planning engaging web posts and smart marketing approaches on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter, further helping to drive website sales and increase the notoriety of the company name.  • Ensured that deadlines for sale campaigns were met and completed, which involved implementing banners, designing newsletters, and configuring products.  • Managed IT operations, diagnosed and repaired computers and network equipment as the sole IT technician on site.  • Monitored and managed all web content creation on our websites, including product creation, new web pages, and the implementing of new website features such as a new product view and a revised shipping method solution. Web Developer The Visible Brand - Huntsville, AL May 2013 to February 2014 • Worked on online auction applications and websites utilizing my skills in HTML5, JavaScript, and CSS/SASS along with a team of developers and designers.  • Performed exhaustive test cases and test scenarios to ensure a bug-free product for clients.  • Ensured I provided clean, well commented code to each commit on our version control system.  • Provided help desk end user support with hardware, software, and website related issues. Managed accounts administration with MySQL and Microsoft SharePoint. Network Technician Insight North America August 2008 to October 2009 • Coordinated network server installations with remote representatives and NCR to maintain and repair ATM Machines and bank teller computers for Regions Banks in north Alabama  • Installed replacement routers and network switches, providing troubleshooting and diagnostics to remote technicians to resolve network issues and update aging hardware.  • Interacted and coordinated with a variety of technicians, managers and organizations daily to complete tasks. Education Computer Science Calhoun Community College - Huntsville, AL August 2015 to May 2017 Skills ACCESS CONTROL, BOOTSTRAP, HTML5, SASS, JAVASCRIPT, ServiceNow (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kylerwilson1