Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer Jersey City, NJ • Having more than 7 years of experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) in developing and designing  user friendly, cross browser complaint web sites, and user interface (UI) applications using HTML4/5, XHTML,  DOM, CSS2/3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS,React.js, Bootstrap, JSON, Redux, and AJAX, xml.  • Extensive experience with Angular JS MVC framework including authoring complex directives, services,  controllers and filters; working with animations, routing and states. Working experience on Backbone.  • Proficient with CSS preprocessors like SASS, LESS.  • Experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS, Angular 2/4, React, Redux and NodeJS  frameworks, worked with LESS/SASS/SCSS for advanced styling implementation.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Possess strong knowledge of PHP web frameworks such as Laravel and proficient in various programming  languages such as HTML/CSS, JavaScript, SQL, and PHP.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application Worked in using React JS components,  Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Expert in interactive webpage technologies, such as Ajax and related data format standards, like XML and JSON.  • Good knowledge of both relational databases such as SQL, Sqlite3 and NoSQL databases such as MongoDB.  • Responsible for maintaining HTML, CSS, jQuery to ensure the website are in accordance with the originally  designed function.  • Working experience on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding,  CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and SEO / Web Standards.  • Experience in working with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX and JQuery.  • Good Experience in designing rich internet applications using Google web toolkit (GWT).  • Familiar with tools like GitHub, JIRA and have a solid understanding of various data types, data structures as  well as algorithms.  • Managing the web application through NodeJS, NPM, Git, Grunt.  • Mastered the Gulp/Grunt with commands for building and deploying the project. Used Bower for successfully  implementing the dependencies.  • Experience in working with RESTful Web Services and implementing RESTful API's using NodeJS.  • Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome web inspectors and IE Developer  Toolbar.  • Expertise in getting Unit tests using Jasmine, Karma, Chai, Mocha and also enforced Test Driven  Development.  • Good Understanding of Model View Controller MVC, MVVM, and MVP design patterns. Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer NextGen US Corp September 2017 to July 2019 Responsibilities:  • Working in Agile based development environment and participated in daily SCRUM stand-up meetings.  • Involved in requirement gathering, designing, development, UI code reviews, and maintenance.  • Developed Web Applications using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Object Oriented JavaScript, Typescript, Angular 5.x, Angular 6.x, Angular 7.x, Node.js, MongoDB, Spring Boot, Bootstrap, and PrimeNG.  • Created unit test cases for all components, services and directives in Jasmine framework.  • Integrated ng-bullet to reduce the unit test cases execution time.  • Assisting to integrate open-source and third-party applications into existing systems, and maintaining quality  assurance standards.  • Migrated application from Angular 5 to Angular 6 and Angular 6 to Angular 7.  • Upgraded RxJS 5 to RxJS 6 as part of the migration and made required code refactoring.  • Created RESTFUL APIs using PHP Laravel Framework and consumed them with Angular.  • Integrated Angular-SVG-Icon to get the SVG file from backend and utilize it.  • Created a header checkbox component to enhance the existing behavior of the PrimeNG table component.  • Involved in integration of the UI unit test cases in bamboo CICD pipeline.  • Implemented Observables for continuous stream of response from a http call, used subscribe, map, subject  operators from RxJS.  • Created the NGRX data flow by building the store, dispatching the actions, maintaining the store using Reducer  and accessing the API Services using Effects.  • Moved the subjects in service to NGRX store and refactored all the subject subscription in components to store  subscriptions.  • Implemented responsiveness using Bootstrap to support compatibility across different platforms and screen  sizes.  • Working with source version control tool Bitbucket to manage the code base and followed proper patterns like forking for cleaner commits to the repos.  • Used dependency management tools such as NPM and Yarn.  • Created reusable web components as part of open source framework (nimbus-core).  • Handled all aspects of the web applications including developing, testing, and debugging.  • Involved in peer code reviews and QA of work in progress, ensuring the team to maintain a standardized best  practice of development.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Good Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React  Native concepts.  • Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  • Translating the business requirements into technical requirements.  • Used Jira to maintain user stories and tasks in the project.  13 Nelson Ave., APT #3, Jersey City, NJ-07307  Phone: (551) 358-8174  Creative Software Developer UI Front-End Angular Developer jdpatel.1991@gmail.com    Environment: JavaScript, Angular5/6/7, Knockout JS, NodeJS, PHP, Laravel, React Js, NPM tools, RESTful  WebServices, HTML5, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, SASS, COMPASS, XML/XSLT, SOAP, Junit, visual design, XCode, AJAX, Gulp, bower, FLEX, Visual Studio, git, API, Restfu API. Software Developer Sadhrasya SoftTech - Vadodara, Gujarat January 2014 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implemented a professional and production quality module systems with NodeJS.  • Used Node.js for managing JavaScript packages using the npm tool.  • Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features using  NodeJS, Require.js and Responsive Design  • Used existing company owned framework similar to AngularJS to develop rich application.  • Developed User Interfaces using semantic HTML5, SASS, BOOTSTRAP.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Created a UI, which involved in displaying the customer transaction and profile information.  • Used Velocity variables while creating dynamic templates.  • Used JQuery framework for UI centric AJAX behavior.  • Involved in testing the UI developed performing unit testing.  • Involved in Re-framing application's JavaScript architecture using JQuery.  • Worked on UX designs for mobile view and IPad view.  • Used Redux, and React to build out a web app.  • Solid understanding of React's Virtual Dom Algorithm, for React performance.  • Performed repetitive tasks like minification, building, compiling, and unit testing using Grunt.  • Performed server code optimization using PHP, Expanded existing MVC model.  • Designed, developed and implemented readable, well documented and reusable API's.  • Involved in application design, site architecture design, using PHP, CSS, JavaScript and HTML programming to meet validation requirements.  • Built executive dashboard using PHP and MySQL that displays near-real time sales and production data to executive team.  • Deploy rapid A/B prototypes for user testing on optimal Tablet web application experience using Node.js, Express, Grunt, Sass.  • Solid understanding of React's Virtual Dom Algorithm, for React performance optimization.  • Built applications for scale using JavaScript, NodeJS, and React.JS.  • Using React.js and HTML5 for SPA development.  • Developer responsive interface using Bootstrap and used SASS for CSS.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Have worked on AWS to integrate the server side and client side code.  • Built out our first product using React.js, which allowed us to render pages on both the client and server using  the same codebase. This allowed us to be easily crawled by search spiders which was crucial to get us the initial  SEO boost for our search products.  Environment: JavaScript, React.JS, NodeJS, PHP, Laravel, Opencart, Angular JS, Angular2/4, NPM tools, RESTful  WebServices, HTML5, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, SASS, COMPASS, XML/XSLT, SOAP, Junit, visual design, Sublime, XCode, AJAX, Gulp, bower, Redux, FLEX, Sourcetree, API, RestFul API.    13 Nelson Ave., APT #3, Jersey City, NJ-07307  Phone: (551) 358-8174  Creative Software Developer UI Front-End Angular Developer jdpatel.1991@gmail.com Full Stack Developer Novum Logic Technologies Pvt Ltd - Vadodara, Gujarat May 2011 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created user interface and navigation strusture.  • Impletemented page designs in standard-complaint dynamic HTML and CSS.  • Developed the Front End User Interface using HTML, Javascript, jQuery and CSS.  • Created interactive navigation lists using list elements in HTML.  • Implemented client side validations in registration forms, login and logout forms using Java Script.  • Worked extensively with the file management and image libraries.  • Performed client-side validations using Javascript.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Interacted with Javascript controllers (jQuery, AJAX, and JSON) to write/read data from back end systems.  • Extensively used jQuery, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like message  posting and auto complete form validations.  • Worked with jQuery widgets to create more interactive web pages.  • Responsible in code optimizing and test across browsers.  • Followed Service Oriented Architecture(SOA) and integration planning.  • Actively participated in meetings with clients to determine website goals and develop strategies.  • UI development with technologies like Angular JS and jQuery.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS framework, Angular JS, Wire-framing and HTML.  • Used Angular JS framework for building web-apps. Extensively worked on RESTful web services.  Environment: JavaScript, Angular JS, RESTful WebServices, PHP, CakePHP, HTML5, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, APACHE  Server, UNIX, jQuery. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Monroe College Skills FRONT-END, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, UI, Front End, React, Angular, CSS3 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, SASS, LESS, Bootstrap,  Web Technologies  DOM, XML, XHTML, PHP, Agile  JS Frameworks JavaScript, knockout JS, AngularJS, NodeJS, JQuery, FLEX, React JS  Dream weaver, Notepad ++, Visual studio, Model, MS PowerPoint, MS Outlook, MS  IDE & Tools  Office, MS Excel, MS Access, JIRA, Jasmine, SVN, GitHub  Operating Systems Windows XP/2000/Vista/7/8  Languages PHP, SQL  Database SQL Server, MySQL, PL/SQL  Web Services REST, SOAP  Content Management  Wordpress  System  Version Control GIT, CVS, SVN  Jaymin Patel  13 Nelson Ave., APT #3,  Jersey City, NJ-07307  Phone: (551) 358-8174  Creative Software Developer UI Front-End Angular Developer jdpatel.1991@gmail.com