Assistant Director of Application Development Assistant Director of Application Development Assistant Director of Application Development - Temple University Philadelphia, PA • Full Stack .NET Developer with 5+ years of experience in different SDLC phases such as Planning, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, and Deployment.  • Understood and utilized all front-end and backend technologies such as Angular 2/4+, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, Bootstrap, C#, Entity Framework, and SQL.  • Great comprehensive knowledge in design patterns such as Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory and Dependency Injection.  • Proficient implementation of Single Page Application (SPA) with Angular2/4+, Node.js, and Web API.  • Worked with Angular2/4+ custom directives, components, modules, pipes, services, and routing.  • Used HTTPClient module in Angular2/4+ to apply CRUD methods from Web API Controller.  • Solid understanding in ASP.NET MVC 5 (Model-View-Controller) and enforced loose coupling.  • Proficient knowledge on different types of architectures such as N-tier, 3-tier, and Onion.  • Created interfaces in the Repository Layer and utilized Singleton Design Pattern in the MVC controllers to handle business logic.  • Sufficient appliance of Entity Framework as an object-relational mapper (ORM) that provided a connection between domain-specific objects and relational data.  • Worked with both code first approach and database first approach to map data objects with entities.  • Good understanding and implementation with LINQ to Objects, LINQ to XML, LINQ to Dataset, LINQ to SQL, and LINQ to Entities.  • Wrote Lambda expressions as simple function usage without detailed implementation.  • Strong understanding and implementation of WCF, Web API, RESTFul and SOAP Web services.  • Adequate knowledge and usage of SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Performed code branching and merging through team collaboration tools such as Team Foundation Server (TFS), GIT, and Azure DevOps.  • Fair knowledge and implementation of deployment using Microsoft Azure.  • Viewed requirement details and communicated using project management tools such as JIRA and Microsoft Teams.  • Demonstrated independent decision making skills by managing tasks under strict deadlines.  • Enforced Agile Methodology and worked in biweekly sprints. Work Experience Assistant Director of Application Development Temple University - Philadelphia, PA May 2019 to Present Description: Considered one of the most popular universities situated in the nation's iconic city, Temple University offers a steady pacing learning environment for undergraduate and graduate students. The various fields of study that students undertake include dentistry, law, pharmacy, medicine, and podiatry. My position was to be a temporary replacement as an assistant director at Lewis Katz School of Medicine. My main responsibility was to maintain many of the school's homegrown systems, most importantly the learning curriculum management system. With the demand of students entering in the medical field as well as faculty members teaching different courses, my tasks included creating, restructuring, and deploying reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) that would pull from different databases. These reports were required to store faculty hours, course director and course administrator financial data, and medical student performance evaluations.  Responsibilities:  • Utilized two different database management systems, SQL Server Management Studio 2017 and MySQL Workbench.  • Verified each SSRS report connected to the right data source, such as MySQL Workbench that housed the Temple University database for the learning curriculum management system.  • Worked with Visual Studio 2017 SQL Server Data Tools software to generate the reports.  • Implemented different design options from Visual Studio software to format the tables.  • Organized the tables and subcategorized the data by applying Tablix properties for paginated reports.  • Restructured existing SSRS reports such as the medical student evaluation reports that would roll over new student data for every academic year.  • Checked according to user specifications and designed parameter filtering in the reports such as selecting student names in the dropdown menu from a particular student evaluation form.  • Deployed the reports using SSRS Report Manager GUI that required path directories to both the Reporting Services Web Portal and the Share Point Web Server.  • Granted staff and faculty access to couple of admin websites for viewing various SSRS reports.  • Resolved issues for students that were unable to log into the Patient Encounter Tracking (PET) web portal and submit their rotational clerkships.  • Viewed production server file share folders and verified important school documentations were processed on a nightly basis.  • Checked any final modifications to the reports and pushed onto TFS.  • Worked under strict deadlines and managed all aspects of various software applications.  Environment: .NET Framework, Visual Studio 2017, Visual Studio SQL Server Data Tools, TFS, Microsoft SQL Server 2017, MySQL Workbench, SQL Server Reporting Services 2017 NET Developer (MVC) University of Virginia - Charlottesville, VA January 2019 to May 2019 Description: The University of Virginia is a proud public institution that is well known for its medical center and research programs. ITS Custom Applications & Consulting Services (CACS) is one of the departments inside Carruthers Hall that provides full scale design, development and hosting solutions to their customers. The main objective of the project was to assist a small team of developers with the maintenance and publication of UVA's vital campus safety application. This application complies with Title 9 of the Department of Education and allows affiliated and non-affiliated UVA members to submit threat assessment forms, risk opinion questionnaires, and case reports.  Responsibilities:  • Developed and maintained the internal reporting application using C#, ASP.NET MVC 5, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and Entity Framework.  • Organized the project structure by using repositories relying on interfaces and providing mapper classes to connect the entities with the view models.  • Created models, controllers, and views for the Wavr21 assessment form.  • Defined and implemented asynchronous methods in the repository classes to improve code execution.  • Enhanced user experience by creating permission types for adding, editing, deleting, and viewing case reports.  • Worked with ViewBag and TempData to pass in success messages after forms were submitted.  • Restructured the user profile pages using Bootstrap 4 material to align the contents.  • Assigned partial views to the profile tab that allowed users to view the submitted reports.  • Designed some JavaScript functions that would allow users to submit, edit, and or delete the Wavr21 forms.  • Used code first migration techniques to map models to the database and update any changes.  • Created LINQ statements to retrieve all reports from a collection of users.  • Applied Lambda expressions to iterate through list of all Wavr21 forms linked with the user's UVA ID.  • Inserted HTML helper methods to design editor fields, labels, and validation messages.  • Integrated Test Driven Development (TDD) by creating unit tests for Wavr21 using the NUnit framework.  • Divided test cases into multiple test methods and applied assertions for each method.  • Worked with daily assignments and collaborated with the development team by using Microsoft Teams.  • Committed code revisions, synched onto personal branch, pulled changes, and merged latest finishes onto the master branch using Azure DevOps.  • Attended daily standups, weekly releases and code review meetings in accordance with Agile.  • Submitted final deliveries for manual testing and pushed every release into production stages.  Environment: .NET Framework, C#, ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework, Microsoft SQL Server 2017, Visual Studio 2017, JavaScript, Azure DevOps, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Microsoft Teams, NUnit Framework Full Stack Web Developer Gannett Fleming - Marlton, NJ June 2017 to November 2018 Description: Gannett Fleming is a global infrastructure firm that provides planning, designing, management, and technology services for spectrum of markets and disciplines such as corporate, education, pharmaceutical, transportation etc. The project was to work with a team and design a proprietary web application to update train schedules and retrieve ticketing information. Designed project using Angular 2/4 framework and added a well-organized user interface.  Responsibilities:  • Developed an application using Angular 2/4, HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, Bootstrap, AJAX, Web API, and Node.js.  • Created Single Page Application (SPA) to receive updated information on the page.  • Utilized Node Package Manager (npm) to install necessary Angular packages and different libraries such as ngx-pagination.  • Implemented various functional structures in the project such as modules, components, directives, pipes, and services.  • Developed Angular search and sort filters in textboxes and search bars for better navigation within the page.  • Passed parameters in filtering to obtain Web API into services by HTTP method calls.  • Worked with client-side validation and server-side validation for authenticating and authorizing users on input fields to preserve data integrity.  • Enforced Route Guards to prevent unauthorized access to different pages.  • Added Angular directives (e.g. ngFor and ngIf) to make the component templates flow properly.  • Included Dependency Injection for the services to pass data to the front view.  • Imported HTTPClient module in Angular 2/4+ to call HTTP post and get methods for data retrieval from the Web API.  • Applied all Web API CRUD operations via Entity Framework.  • Used the HTTP methods in the Web API to communicate with Microsoft SQL Server.  • Configured IIS to Postman and launched the application to get, post, put and delete data in JSON format.  • Collaborated with team testers and was familiar with Jasmine testing environment and Karma runner tool.  • Focused on software development principles with the team by using JIRA as a project management tool and Slack for team communication.  • Committed all latest code and merged onto the master branch using TFS.  • Collaborated with my team to publish finalized web application onto Microsoft Azure.  Environment: Angular 2/4, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 4, Typescript, Node.js, Web API, .NET Framework, Entity Framework, Microsoft SQL Server 2012, Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio 2017, Postman, Jasmine, Karma, JIRA, TFS, Microsoft Azure    V12 Data Matawan, NJ Full Stack .NET Developer January 2016 to April 2017 Description: Falling as a sub company of V12 Group, V12 Data helps combine rich data assets with robust technology to provide brands with seamless and connected customer view. The goal of the project was to design web application for internal use for company to monitor customer shopping experiences. Worked on implementing features which allowed company to log in, view shopping website traffic, receive customer feedback through online surveys, and generate sales reports. Goal of the application was to analyze shopping trends to strategize marketing solutions.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the robust web application using C#, ASP.NET MVC with built in Razor View Engine, Entity Framework, jQuery, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and JavaScript.  • Followed the Onion Architectures to enforce separation of concerns.  • Instantiated Unit of Work as a singleton design pattern in the controllers to connect the MVC layer to the Repository layer.  • Created global.asax files to handle application events such as Application_Start, Application_End, Session_Start, Session_End, Application_BeginRequest, Application_Error.  • Customized routing syntax in the Route.config file.  • Applied ViewData, Sessions, and TempData in order to pass in data.  • Used jQuery and AJAX for event handling and DOM manipulation in the project.  • Implemented ASP.NET MVC action filters and custom validations for allowing only company staff to access the view portal.  • Created an ADO.NET Entity Data Model using Entity Framework to connect to Microsoft SQL Server 2012 with the established database and tables.  • Used LINQ expressions in the Repository Layer to perform database operations.  • Applied LINQ to SQL and LINQ to Objects for managing relational data in ADO.NET.  • Created a DbContext class and inserted Dependency Injection to utilize the context class throughout the project.  • Organized the UI layout by applying magnificent CSS3 styling.  • Applied HTML Helper Methods for Validation Messages and URL links.  • Used Lambda expressions of appropriate UI forms and controls.  • Familiar with JIRA and collaborated with the team for further testing.  • Committed all source code to GIT and allowed team lead to merge all code to master/main branch.  • Reviewed final changes in the web application and set it for publication onto Microsoft Azure.  Environment: .NET Framework, C#, ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework, Microsoft SQL Server 2012, Visual Studio 2016, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, ADO.NET, GIT, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, NUnit Framework, JIRA, Microsoft Azure ASP.NET Developer MVC/WCF - Long Island, NY July 2014 to November 2015 Description: HHAeXchange is the leading homecare management software solution that delivers better homecare. The company helped payers and providers achieve operational efficiency, increased compliance, and improved patient outcomes. Project was to develop a web application that implements strong validation for accessing confidential records, integrates an online appointment system, develops billing procedures for patients, provide a separate web portal for payer-provider transactions, and marks all recent medical equipment for inventory.  Responsibilities:  • Covered the SDLC process involving requirement gathering, planning, designing, development, testing, deployment, and maintenance.  • Assigned 3-tier Architecture and used separation of concerns to organize the UI, Business, and Data logic into individual layers.  • Applied action filters in ASP.NET MVC controllers for authorization, error handling, and output cache.  • Wrote and arranged routing logic for mapping browser requests to controller actions in the Route.config file.  • Used JSON and AJAX to manage all client-side validations and dynamic page loading.  • Created a Unit of Work as a singleton in the controllers to access the data objects from the repository layer.  • Implemented refurbished view page using Bootstrap 3 and CSS3.  • Gained knowledge of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and worked with team that designed test cases using NUnit.  • Worked with WCF using Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) to have a web service connect and send data as XML result.  • Created the database in Microsoft SQL Server 2012 and applied database first approach in Visual Studio to gather data.  • Worked with Entity Framework via ADO.NET to connect the relational data with domain- specific objects.  • Used stored procedures and views to access portions of the data from large database.  • Organized daily scrum meetings as well as biweekly sprint meetings.  Environment: .NET Framework, C#, ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework, AJAX, ADO.NET, HTML5, Bootstrap 3, CSS3, WCF, NUnit, Microsoft SQL Server 2012, Visual Studio Web Developer (ASP.NET Web Forms) Covanta - Philadelphia, PA November 2013 to June 2014 Covanta is a world leader in providing sustainable waste and energy solutions, through wide network of treatment and recycling facilities, Covanta provides communities and business with industrial material level management services to tackle environmental challenges. The project was to build a web application using Web Services to retrieve data from database and generate business reports periodically for marketing team. Built a database to manage data such as equipment names, equipment pricing, worker salary, etc.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented Page Controller pattern as well as view states in ASP.NET Web Forms.  • Understood the whole ASP.NET Page Life Cycle to distinguish important phases such as initializing a page, instantiating controls, restoring and maintaining states, running event handling, and page rendering.  • Integrated a 3-tier architecture to divide the project into 3 layers: User Interface, Business Logic Layer, and Data Access Layer.  • Applied authentication and authorization validators to prevent anyone outside of the company from accessing data.  • Used Postback, Hidden Fields, Sessions, Cookies, and Query Strings throughout the web application.  • Generated the database using Microsoft SQL Server and created tables to organize and store important data.  • Linked .aspx code with the code behind and applying connection string in Web.config file.  • Used ADO.NET to create data models and writing statements in the data layer for retrieving, updating, storing and deleting data.  • Applied jQuery and AJAX functionality to load the pages asynchronously.  • Used stored procedures for search filtering processes.  • Generated CSS3 grid layouts to align the sidebars, menu, and content.  • Included Bootstrap components for dropdowns, search bars, and other controls.  • Utilized SSIS and SSRS into the project to analyze data and conduct business reports at end of each period.  Environment: C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Visual Studio 2012, Microsoft SQL Server, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Boostrap, Aspx Engine, jQuery, SSIS, SSRS Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Information Systems in Computer Science and Information Systems Stockton University 2018 Skills Ado, Database, Ado.net, Sql server, Mysql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages C#, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 4, JavaScript, jQuery, Typescript  Software Development Architecture Onion Architecture, 3-tier Architecture, N-tier Architecture  Design Pattern Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, Dependency Injection  Frameworks ASP.NET 4.5, ASP.NET MVC 4/5,Angular 2/4+, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, LINQ, ASP.NET Web API, SOAP and RESTful Services, WCF  Database SQL Server, MySQL , SQL Server Reporting Services  Source Control, Project Management & Deployment TFS, GIT, Azure DevOps, JIRA, Slack, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft Azure,  Test Jasmine, Karma, NUnit, Postman, SOAP UI  IDE Visual Studio, SQL Server Management Studio, MySQL Workbench, Visual Studio Code