IOS DEVELOPER IOS <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> IOS DEVELOPER - DJO GLOBAL INC Vista, CA • Over 8+ years of experience in designing & developing Web & Mobile applications and iOS Applications.  • development experience in iOS application using Xcode, Objective C, C++ and Cocoa Touch Framework.  • Experienced in working with data parsing forms such as XML and JSON.  • Hands on experience with Swift programming language.  • Experienced in Mobile Application Development using UIKit, Core Foundation with Cocoatouch.  • Created and customized views using Table Views, Tab bars and Navigation bars which are some basic functionality in a Multi-View Application.  • Proficient in programming languages such as HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Proficient Knowledge in the distribution of an APP in to the App Store.  • Hands on experience on integrating Push Notifications.  • Knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts and good development experience in building re-usable code.  • Experience in Framework development, JavaScript, CSS and HTML5.  • Control the user interface programmatically, which requires more familiarity with AppKit classes and protocols.  • Complete comprehension of Memory Management in Objective-C using Instruments to fine-tune the app performance and memory management.  • Hands on experience in working with OAuth token handling to make API requests for Google, Facebook, Twitter, GitHub.  • Experience working on BLE (Bluetooth Framework), HealthCare, Retail,IT and Marketing domain mobile applications.  • Strong Knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with strategically designing and implementing the software, debugging, fixing and maintaining the software. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IOS DEVELOPER DJO GLOBAL INC - San Diego, CA August 2018 to Present Description: DJO Global Inc. is a leading global provider of high-quality, orthopedic devices, with a broad range of products used for rehabilitation, pain management and physical therapy. In the beginning, DonJoy, a small company founded in Carlsbad, California garage in 1978 by Philadelphia Eagles. The first products were simple sleeves made of sewn-together neoprene that were pulled over the knee, ankle and elbow joints for the support. Some of the trademarks and brands include: Chattanooga, Compex, Aircast, DonJoy, ProCare, SpinaLogic, Encore, EmpiOrmed. In 2007, company's fortune was changed forever. DJO was purchased by Blackstone group and again became a privately held company. Now in 2018, DJO was purchased by Colfax company. X4 brace is used for Remote monitoring including in-home exercises, steps count and Activity control. Monitor patient compliance, patient/physician collaboration for more connected managed care. X4 with Motion intelligence (MI) supports the knee while allowing healthcare professionals to evaluate knee joint range of motion, at-home exercise compliance and changes in pain level.    Responsibilities:  • Project managed with Agile/SCRUM methodology, code delivered in 2 week Sprints.  • Strong Working knowledge on Swift 4.0 and 4.2 through the project and experienced many improvements over Objective -C.  • Gathered requirements for how the application should look and built the application accordingly from the Design and Architect team.  • Developed and managed user stories while providing status updates to Agile Scrums.  • Used GitHub to pull/push the code and make changes to it. Review and provide comments for the Pull Request and Daily interaction with the version tools.  • Developed the app using iOS frameworks, Alamofire, Observable, Encrypted Core Data, CoreGraphics, SQLCipher Frameworks.  • Worked on the iOS concepts like BLE (Bluetooth), Camera,Core Data, AutoLayout constraints,Storyboards.  • Worked on the BLE devices (multiple knee braces) to show the device related information like real time steps, Angle, Flexion, Extension, Activity time and private data.  • Strictly followed MVC design patterns for smooth application performance and secured user credentials for better user interaction with the app.  • Integrated the basic Login and Forgot PIN pages and stored the password in keychain.  • Added animation between UIViews for smooth transitioning and better user experience.  • Implemented custom UIViews, TableViews, TableViewCell, UITabBar, and UINavigationController for easy navigation of the app.  • Implemented the Hamburger Menu Navigation on the Dashboard screen and created the root navigation to dashboard screen for menu list.  • Utilized Storyboards with Auto Layout constraints to ensure graceful orientation handling on all devices from iPhone 5 onwards but mainly for iPAD in landscape mode.  • Worked on integrating with backed services and parsed JSON responses.  • Worked on Messages, used for thread communication between the Patient and Doctor.  • Integrated the Videos from the backed service and listed them in a table view, downloaded in the background with status indicator for the patient based on the userID.  • SQLiteCipher is used to store data in the database and also make the data to be Encrypted safely.  • Deployed the TestFlight APIbuilds to get user logs and crash reports and will push each build with a specific feature for testing.    Environment: Xcode 10 and latest, Swift 4.0 and 4.2, Pods, Alamofire Framework, Observable Framework, SQLCipher Framework, Encrypted Core Data Framework, Charts, Animations, JSON, Storyboard, CoreGraphics, AutoLayout Constraints, GitHub, Keychain, BLE devices, iPad Device, TestFlight. IOS DEVELOPER SAMSUNG - Mountain View, CA August 2017 to June 2018 Description: Samsung Research is advanced research and development hub of Samsung's SET(End Product) Business who is leading the development of future technologies with 22 R&D centers 20,000 Researches around the Globe. SRA is a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Corporation.Samsung is dedicated to developing innovative technologies and efficient processes that create new markets, enrich people's lives and continue to make Samsung a digital leader. Working on the SmartThings App no matter where you are, you can connect, monitor and control smart devices, home appliances, TV's and speakers registered with server quicker and easier. We can control Samsung Smart-TV's, appliances and SmartThings-compatible devices.    Responsibilities:  • Project managed with Agile/SCRUM methodology, code delivered in 2 week Sprints.  • Strong Working knowledge on Swift 3.0, 4.0 through the project and experienced many improvements over Objective -C.  • Gathered requirements for how the application should look and built the application accordingly from the Design and Product team.  • Worked on Memory management and ARC (Automatic Reference Counting).  • Executed and Monitored standards for user interfaces, page design and iOS development.  • Developed and managed user stories while providing status updates to Agile Scrums.  • Fixed bugs when notified or documented by QA in bug tracking system Jira.  • Conducted Memory management testing by using Static Analyzer and Instruments.  • Review and provide comments for the Pull Request / Merge Requests and Daily interaction with the version tools.  • Worked on integrating with back end services using existing frameworks and also worked on the Samsung Analytic Events.  • Worked on the iOS concepts like accessibility, custom transactions, core Data, Auto Layout and storyboards.  • Developed the App using CocoaTouch frameworks like UIKit, Foundation, CoreGraphics Frameworks.  • Used GitHuband GitLab to pull code and make changes in the code and push the code back and expertise in device firmware testing.  • Invoked RestFull Web services using NSURLSession and Parsed JSON responses using  NSJSONSerialization.  • Utilized Storyboards with Auto Layout constraints to ensure graceful orientation handling on all devices from iPhone 5 onwards.  • Performed regression and unit testing with XCTest UI Testing framework within Xcode.  • Worked with Backend team to display the correct data format in devices.  • Incorporated Categories, Protocols, User defaults, notification center, localization bundles, custom fonts, attributed strings.  • Tested the UI flow with every SmartThing's devices and also on the alarm devices.    Environment: Objective-C, Xcode 9 to latest 9.3, Cocoa Touch, Foundation framework, SmartKit framework, UIKit, CoreGraphics, Swift 3, 4.0, Push Notifications, XCTest cases, OCF Cloud manager, AWS, NSLog, Storyboard, Auto Layout constraints, JSON, REST, GitHub, GitLab, XML, SQLite. IOS DEVELOPER PRINCESS CRUISES - Santa Clarita, CA June 2015 to May 2017 Description: Princess Cruises first set sail in 1965 to Mexico and by now it has become the Third largest cruise line in the world. Princess Cruises is a proud member of World's Leading Cruise Lines(WLCL).Cruise Lines International Association is the world's largest cruise association and is dedicated to the promotion and growth of the cruise industry. Working on the Princess Cruises app to make easy booking and implementing phases.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered requirements for how the application should look and built the application accordingly.  • Worked extensively with Objective -C and Cocoa frameworks.  • Developed the App using CocoaTouch frameworks like UIKit, Foundation, CoreGraphics Frameworks.  • Strong Working knowledge on Swift 2.2 and older versions through the project and experienced many improvements over Objective -C.  • Added animation between UIViews for smooth transitioning and better user experience.  • Implemented custom UIViews, TableViews, TableViewCell, UITabBar, and UINavigationController for easy navigation of the app.  • Working Knowledge on libraries specific to Swift like Alamofire and also implemented bridging header from objective-c to Swift.  • Worked with Instruments tool extensively at the end of development cycle to minimize memory leaks and assure overall application stability.  • Integrated a web-based content made with HTML5 on a Native application using UI Web View.  • Web service calls by including XML parsing and JSON parsing in the project.  • Implemented PushNotifications and LocalNotifications and Fixed bugs are documented by QA team.  • Used GitHub to pull code and make changes in the code and push the code back and expertise in device firmware testing.  • SQLite is used to store data in the project and TestFlight API is used to get user logs and crash reports.  • Experienced with Unit and Integration Testing Framework such as KIF which allows for easy automation of ios Apps.  • Incorporated the Push Notification feature using APNS, in order to notify the user when any file operations were done.  • Refactored UI for additional functionalities that were added to the app.  • Responsible for service Integration Development and Testing.  • Updated and implemented 3rd party APIs to integrate with social networks.  • Addressed Memory leaks by using Instruments and fixed bugs for Memory management issues.    Environment: Objective-C, Xcode 6/8, Cocoa Touch, Foundation framework, UIKit, CoreGraphics, Swift 2.2, Push Notifications, JSON, GitHub, XML, SQLite. IOS DEVELOPER ROCK and DIRT - Crossville, TN December 2013 to March 2015 Description: Rock & Dirt app is a one-stop shop for buyers and sellers with thousands of listings featuring construction equipment. You'll get up-to-date auction information, including past auction results, so you can find what is for sale and at what price - vital information for tracking industry price trends, seller contact options. Participated in the full SDLC, including meetings, iterative development, estimations and design sessions. Worked in design, implementation phases and on different layers of the iOS apps. Fixed relevant bugs, leaks, and deployed on the real-time device to validate the application stability.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with Objective C, and Cocoa Frameworks, which includes UIKit Foundation.  • Implemented Maps using MapKit and Core Location to display nearby branches and agents.  • Added UIGestureRecognizers to simulate carousel effect during navigation between view Controllers.  • Invoked RestFull Web services using NSURLSession and Parsed JSON responses using  NSJSONSerialization.  • Implemented NSOperationQueue and NSURLConnection to integrate, synchronize with enterprise backend and database.  • Worked on Memory management and ARC (Automatic Reference Counting).  • Strictly followed MVC design patterns for smooth application performance and secured user credentials for better user interaction with the app.  • Created Network Manager to handle the service calls through AFNetworking.  • Used specific XML schema for app's (Bluetooth Low Energy) BLE 4.0 profile, and use Core Bluetooth Framework APIs for the app to connect different devices of Apple.  • Incorporated the Push Notification feature using APNS, in order to notify the user when any file operations were done.  • Incorporated Categories, Protocols, User defaults, notification center, localization bundles, custom fonts, attributed strings.  • Implemented Auto Layout constraints to ensure graceful orientation handling and visualize same in different screen sizes.    Environment: Objective C, Xcode 6.3, Cocoa touch, Cocoa frameworks, AVFoundation work, AFNetworking, MapKit, Core location, iOS 7.0/8.0/ 9.0, Mac OS X. IOS DEVELOPER LENNOX INTERNATIONAL INC - Dallas, TX November 2011 to October 2013 Description: Developed and maintained Lennox Mobile Application. This App works with the GPS locator on your mobile device to adjust temperatures accordingly.    Responsibilities:  • Project managed with Agile/SCRUM methodology; code delivered in 3 week Sprints.  • Experienced with Unit and Integration Testing Framework such as KIF which allows for easy automation of iOS Apps.  • Performed regression and unit testing with XCTest UI Testing framework within Xcode.  • Implemented Push Notifications to alert the user of important system messages.  • Developed a module to route and save the JSON schemes into a DB.  • Worked on web services using NSURL Connection and JSON Parsing to establish server connections and fetch data.  • Worked with Backend team to display the correct data format in devices.  • Used GitHub to pull code and make changes in the code and push the code back and expertise in device firmware testing.  • Extensively worked with instrument tools to minimize memory leaks and assure overall application stability.  • Refactored UI for additional functionalities that were added to the app.  • Optimized app performance by profiling it with Instruments like Allocations and Analyzer.  • Refactored Delegate protocols in different areas of app and handled data for client devices.  • Resolved bugs using Breakpoints, NSLog and LLDB statements.  • Utilized Storyboards with Auto Layout constraints to ensure graceful orientation handling on all devices.  • Refactored code to be iOS10 compatible.    Environment: Objective-C, Blocks, iOS10, iOS9 SDK, CocoaTouch, KIF, UIKit, Foundational, Storyboards, Auto Layout constraints, XCTest, RESTful, Push Notifications, Delegation, Keychain, Breakpoints, NSLog, Allocations, Instruments, Agile, SCRUM. WEB DEVELOPER Celgene Corporation - Springfield, MO February 2010 to September 2011 Description: Involved in web designing using HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript and extensively used Table Less Design in CSS for positioning Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications at HCSC.    Responsibilities:  • Planning, designing and implementing of complete Websites.  • Design with standards compliant code with emphasis on browsercompatibility, accessibility, and search engine optimization.  • Updating the existing Website of client's as per the request.  • Cleaned up and rewrote front end HTML and CSS to meet validation requirements.  • Responsible for creating graphics like logos and icons by using Photoshop and Fireworks.  • Utilized an expert knowledge of JavaScript, HTML and CSS to deliver advanced GUI and controls.  • Dynamic Website design and programming using PHP, MySQL, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Inspect HTML, modify style and layout and debug advanced JavaScript using Mozilla Firebug.  • Produced JavaScript to automatically disable selected links until a given activation date.  • Group Manager in creating System Diagrams, Flow-Chart, and Database Diagrams using VISIO.  • Design Database tables, stored procedures, views, and functions per business requirement from clients.  • Normalized database tables and performed extensive query optimization.  • Wrote MySQL Stored Procedures and Views for fetching of data from multiple tables.  • Design and Develop custom animated banner templates using Flash, and jQuery.  • Validating all the User's Inputs through Java Scripts and Regular Expressions.    Environment: Adobe Creative Suite, Photoshop, HTML/DHTML/XHTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript and jQuery Integration, MySQL, Mozilla Firebug, Microsoft VISIO and Microsoft Outlook. Education Bachelor's Silicon Valley University