Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Fort Belvoir, VA I am a seasoned Full-stack developer with 10 years of hands-on experience with  different front-end and back-end technologies. I have an informed familiarity with scrum and agile methodologies of development and have effectively led and worked with teams in different capacities during the course of my career. I am a problem solver to my core and the approach I take is proactive in addressing challenges. Work Experience Senior Web Developer Internetmedia - New York, NY May 2016 to June 2019 At Accenture, I worked as a Full stack developer and my day-to-day tasks  included:  Addressing business challenges by delivering test driven, robust and reliable solutions using technology stacks like Node JS/Angular/Re-  act/Redux. I used various frameworks including Mocha/Chai/ Sinon JS for testing purpose.  Worked on real-time workforce management solution with Node JS/  MongoDB microservices architecture and on web admin portal with a Cordova based hybrid mobile app.  Worked on Angular/Laravel/Postgres SQL application for advertisement  industry to provide a platform to manage different advertisements and customers and to integrate it with existing software systems.  Worked as a scrum master and team lead following agile methodology  andsuccessfully delivered quality service on numerous projects of varying  magnitudes.  Worked on various pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript to bring a designer Senior Web Developer whatscheaper - Chicago, IL March 2014 to April 2016 I joined Blueline Grid as a Fullstack developer and worked on communicationsystems development for their department that caters to  law enforcement. My day to day responsibilities included:  Development of communication application for the field officers with multiple functions like Push-to-talk (PTT), locate, chat/call, access control and integrated alerts.  Worked on making the application robust in terms of its connectivity  between mobile devices and land mobile radios for inter operable and flawless communications.  Intensive custom and third party APIs implementation work was  undertaken to integrate with the systems developed for law enforcement  usage.  S FULL STACK DEVELOPER Senior Web Developer Propark America - San Francisco, CA January 2012 to March 2014 Joined Autodesk as a web product publisher to update existing products'  pages using advanced JavaScript and PHP. Implemented Adobe Test & Target on Autodesk's ecommerce website for conversion rate and user  behavior.  Worked with the development team as a Senior Backend Developer.  Mainly worked on data migration, transformation, and scripting to create  responsive  Worked on creating different APIs in backend that can be easily consumed by newly integrated React JS app into AEM framework JUNIOR BACK END DEVELOPER SECL Group July 2008 to June 2010 I worked with small software team (now the SECL Group) as a junior back  end developer. On any given day, my duties revolved around:  Setting up robust back end functionality using technologies like PHP  (Custom, WordPress, Codeigniter, Laravel, Cake), Ruby on Rails and ASP.net  Working on functionality of assortment of widgets, modules, plugins and APIs.  Setting up databases to work in compliance with the back end using  MySQL.  Familiarizing myself with the emerging technologies and platforms at that  time like MongoDB.  Equipping myself with the knowledge of best practices and programming  paradigms. Education Bachelors of Computer Engineering Technology in Computer Engineering Technology DeVry University January 2004 to June 2008 Skills API (5 years), databases (7 years), JavaScript (5 years), MySQL. (7 years), PHP. (7 years), WordPress (5 years), Plugin Development (4 years), API Integration (5 years), PostgreSQL (3 years), MVC (5 years), GitHub (3 years), PHP/Laravel (6 years), React.js (2 years), Angular.js (3 years), Node.js/MEAN (2 years), GitHub (3 years), AWS, Angular, Jquery, Java, Nodejs, React, Node, PHP, NET, Angularjs, C#