Job Seeker Plano, TX • 6+ Years of Experience in developing web applications and interactive software products using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQuery, Angular JS, React JS, AJAX, XML, JSON, Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap, d3js,CANJS.  • Extensive programming experience in writing web application programs covering front-end / UI Angular JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX for building rich user friendly, high performance web applications.  • Skilled in Graphical User Interface designing(GUI), Web application development, Human Computer Interaction factors, usability, flash presentations, flash mock-ups, creating -illustrations, content navigation, formatting web pages, web typography and implementing CSS.  • Experience in implementing cross-browser style-sheets.  • Extensively worked on cross browser compatibility and Responsive Web Design on different browsers like Safari, Firefox, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer.  • Extensive experience in Development, Implementation and testing in various application architectures, including E-Commerce, B2B, Distributed Applications, Internet /Intranet.  • Extensive experience in SQL, PL/SQL programming, stored procedures, triggers and Query optimization, also written queries for insert, update and modification operations. Performed database normalization and optimization using database tools.  • Performed the requirements gathering, gap analysis, problem determination, and work with BPM team for a solution formulation, analysed the Cassandra /SQL scripts and designed the solution to implement using Scala.  • Good working knowledge in Web/Application servers such as JBoss 6.x, Apache Tomcat 6.x and Web sphere 6.x.  • Experience with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.JS, React JS, BackboneJS, and NodeJS.  • Extensively developed Rich Internet Applications and various UI widgets using jQuery.  • Strong experienced in various IDEs like Eclipse, Edit Plus, Webstore, Sublime text, Notepad++, Adobe Photoshop and brackets.  • Developed Web UI using HTML, JavaScript, and JSP, also have experience with Maven and spring.  • Experience in working with Java, HTML, SQL, JSP and JavaScript in development process, also Performed various operation using Core JAVA.  • Extensive Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML.  • Used Web Services like SOAP and RESTful web services using Ajax, HTML, XML, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Experience writing angular.js code for developing Single page applications (SPA), used several in built language core directives, expressions and modules.  • Extensive experience with Angular JS, creating custom directives, decorators, and services to interface with both restful and legacy network services also DOM applications.  • Proficiency in building Web (UI) User Interface using, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, React JS, Bootstrap and Angular JS that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Implemented client side Interface using React JS.  • Quick learner, exceptional problem-solving and troubleshooting capabilities.  • Excellent Team player with good Communication and Interpersonal skills.  • A very good team player with leadership qualities and ability to work independently. Work Experience United Health Group - Schaumburg, IL March 2016 to Present Description: UnitedHealth Group Inc. Is an American managed health care company based in Minnetonka, Minnesota It is 6th in the United States on the Fortune 500. UnitedHealth Group offers products and services through two operating businesses, United Healthcare and Optum, both subsidiaries of UnitedHealth Group. Optum is a new business brand of UnitedHealth Group and operating business and Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) services. UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals throughout the United States. In 2015, the company reported an operating income of $11 billion.  Roles & Responsibilities    • Responsible for field validations using AngularJS and also created custom components in AngularJS. Designed and developed the application using Agile Scrum methodology.  • Responsible for developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, jQuery, Ajax.  • Designed and coded the User Interface (UI) of the website using JavaScript, Angular JS, Node.JS, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap CSS.  • Experience in working on GIT, UI Development using React JS and Bootstrap on HTML  • Developed the application pages using Angular JS, D3.js, JQuery, HTML5 and AJAX.  • Used firebug, IE developer toolbar and chrome canary tool for debugging JavaScript and fixing issues.  • Implemented responsive web design and maintaining larger style sheets using bootstrap and Sass.  • Used jQuery plug-ins to implement features as a light box, galleria, sliders and other intuitive features.  • Converted wire frames to HTML prototypes.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Involved in developing web Page Applications using AngularJS.  • Solid understanding of React Virtual DOM Algorithm, for React performance optimization.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Making changes to the existing web applications and creating new components using React JS.  • Using JavaScript, jQuery, Kendo UI for user interactions in pages. Creating a Responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with React JS and media queries.  • Involved in writing jQuery-based Ajax requests using jQuery. Get or jQuery. Ajax and JQuery. Post.  • Worked in all phases of SDLC, including requirements analysis, design and development, bug fixing, supporting QA teams and debugging production issues.  • Generating Scala, Play Framework and java classes from the respective APIs so that they can be incorporated in the overall application.  • Writing entities in Scala, Play Framework and Java along with named queries to interact with database.  • Implemented applications with Scala along with play framework.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Worked in scrum process attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  • Used Perforce for Version Control and Maven for build automation tools.    Environment: Angular JS, React JS, D3,.js, Scala, Java Script, BootStrap, HTML, CSS, SASS, Jira, Jenkins, Jazz, SPA, VersionOne, WebStrom UI Developer Royal Bank of Scotland - Stamford, CT July 2015 to February 2016 Description: Royal Bank of Scotland commonly abbreviated as RBS, is one of the retail banking subsidiaries of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, together with NatWest and Ulster Bank.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Extensively worked on HTML5/4, CSS3/2, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, AJAX, Bootstrap, RWD, AngularJS, and D3.js.  • Provided feedback and strategies for inputs on the layouts and UX during design discussions and user experience sessions.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and business units.  • Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Development, Documentation, Testing, Deployment, Version Control and production support.  • Used Eclipse & Web Strom as editor and used chrome Developer tools for debugging.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, IE, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the on-going project status and issues using JIRA.  • Using AngularJS created Responsive Web Design (RWD) and did data manipulations to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Developed custom directives, Factories and Services in AngularJS.  • Working environment included open source development tools, including Node, Grunt, and Bower.  • Extensively worked on unit testing using Intern testing framework.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Using GIT and Perforce for version control.    Environment: HTML5/4, CSS3/2, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, API REST Services, AngularJS, Adobe Photoshop and MS Office. UI Developer Regions Bank - Birmingham, AL July 2014 to June 2015 Description: Regions Financial Corporation is a bank and financial services company headquartered in the Regions Centre in Birmingham, Alabama. The company provides retail and commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering phase in order to gather the requirements from the business users and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements. Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and Struts Framework.  • Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing Angular JS, Backbone JS, D3.js, JavaScript API.  • Designed and developed various Screens using JSP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS, JSON.  • Responsible for the design of web applications right from the conceptualization stage to its implementation and maintenance.  • Participated in Agile Process/SCRUM meetings.  • Developed detailed mockups, prototypes and wireframes to illustrate interface and design concepts of the website using Microsoft Visio.  • Created various web pages for internal use by business users to be integrated with other backend systems.  • Used Eclipse for development, coding and deploying the components of application.  • Developed web page layouts using CSS mechanism to include different colors, layout, width, height, font size, images size to the web pages.  • Maintaining documents and source code in Perforce  • Created and modified new and existing pages, applied new styles on the pages with the help of Dojo and JavaScript  • Worked with JIRA Tool to keep track of the Bugs/Issues/Features list.  • Used ANT to build the application.  • Used Firebug tool for debugging.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Dojo, JQuery, JavaScript, DHTML, Prototype and Mockups, Dreamweaver, Photoshop UI Developer Citi Bank - Chicago, IL January 2014 to June 2014 Description: Citibank is the consumer division of financial services multinational Citigroup. Citibank was founded in 1812 as the City Bank of New York, later First National City Bank of New York. Citibank provides credit cards, mortgages, personal loans, commercial loans, and lines of credit.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Working on Presentation layer and Business Layer  • Involved in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSP, HTML, DOM, XHTML, JSON and AJAX.  • Involved in development of highly interactive portable widgets using HTML 5, CSS 3, and the latest AJAX libraries.  • Worked on JSP, Servlets, Castor JDO, PL/SQL procedures.  • Used AJAX for asynchronous calls.  • Design doc creation and review.  • Defect Fixes and handling interim release for escalated bugs.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Integration of Cognos Reporting Server with JSP front end.  • Worked on creating new JSP pages for BI Cognos Report Integration (JSP Front End Cognos SDK used for retrieving & rendering reports from Server )  • worked on features involving reworking of logic in existing JS functions or for creation of new features, reworked on Ajax calls, creating new ones for launching model dialog in IE specifics  • Created new UI for displaying results for VFA.Facility Search feature - This was reworked later while implementing the feature using WSO2 web services.  • Reworked on EXTJS UI for Linear Assets Network Detail UI Feature using EXTJS 4  • Created Custom Reports from scratch in Cognos 8 Report Studio (BI Cognos Reporting Tool) and Cognos Report Studio  • Configured Single Server environment locally and stand alone for Report,  • Working on a project which is providing me hands on in Node JS server running on EXTJS front end app  • Working JBOSS 4.0.3 SP1 - VFA. Facility is hosted on this app    Environment: JSP, Servlets, PL/SQL, JBOSS, Tomcat, Oracle 11g, putty, Eclipse, Intellij, ANT, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, EXTJS, Node.JS,, Angular.js, JBOSS 4.0.3, Cognos SDK, WSO2 web services, AJAX, BI Cognos Report, jQuery, backbone.js Web Developer ITON Technologies September 2010 to November 2013 Responsibilities:    • Designing and developing cross browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, and JQuery being the member of web team.  • Responsible for the overall layout design, colour scheme of the web site using XHTML and CSS.  • Responsible for creating the table-less designs meeting W3C standards & 508 Compliance focusing on accessibility.  • Meeting with department representatives to determine information needs and propose, creating mockups leading to final web page in production.  • Working on Web Maintenance requests consisting of changes, enhancements, or adjustments to existing web sites and web pages of different countywide department.  • Developed creative web page layouts, frame works for challenging web applications, while working with multiple teams within the department.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from PSD mockups to final HTML/CSS/JQuery based web pages.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are uniform on all screens throughout the application, cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Implementation of JQuery to support the dynamic nature of the web-site elements like navigation, icons, banners etc.  • Interacted with direct clients from different departments to deliver the final product within given deadline.  • Worked directly with the System Analyst and the project team to understand the requirements.  • Developed web pages applying best standards.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Preparing Documentation for various process developments.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Implemented Performance Tuning to make the pages load fast and in an effective way  • Performed extensive unit testing (end-to-end) and prepared detailed test scripts as part of it.  • Creating, edit, and manipulate images for organizational charts, phone directory, web pages, web application using applications such as Adobe Photoshop/Illustrator/fireworks.  • Converting all PDF documents using Adobe Pro xi to make sure it's compliant with Section 508 of accessibility.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS and JavaScript in ongoing projects.  • Cross Browser support for WebPages from IE 7 & above.  • Quality Assurance by fixing broken links ensures quality deliverables for the citizens of county using site scope.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JQuery, Photoshop, MVC, Bootstrap, Illustrator, AngularJS, React JS Fireworks, Adobe Pro xi, WAMP server and Dreamweaver. Skills AngularJS (5 years), CSS. (6 years), HTML (6 years), JavaScript (6 years), jQuery (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems Linux, Windows, MAC OS.  Languages, Scripts jQuery, AngularJS, Scala, React JS, D3,.js, Leafletjs, Flux , PHP 4/5, JavaScript , HTML, CSS, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX shell scripting  Editors / IDE Tools Eclipse IDE, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visual Studio Web Platform  UI Web Technologies  HTML, HTML 5, XHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JQuery UI, EasyUI, JSON, JSP, CSS 3, UI Concept Modelling/Wire framing, GIMP,    Databases MySQL, Mongo DB, DB2 , SQL Server  Design Methodologies & Tools Rational Rose, Star UML, Agile, Water Fall  Application/ Web servers Apache Tomcat 7.0, HTTP Web Server  Tools Flash, Photoshop, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, WordPerfect, Test Director, Quality Center