Technical Support Representative Team Lead Technical Support Representative Team Lead Technical Support Representative Team Lead Plainfield, IN A self-motivated IT professional with huge knowledge and proficiency in JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and responsive web development, as well as strong skills and ability in writing clean and efficient code, seeks the position of Web Developer or IT Support Technician with an up and coming company. Exceptionally creative and dependable Information Technology professional with a stellar customer service record and superb work ethic. Broadly and deeply knowledgeable in a wide variety of computer languages as well as the principles and techniques of website construction and maintenance. Highly adept at conveying complex technical information to a variety of professional and lay audiences in a clear and understandable manner. Work Experience Technical Support Representative Team Lead Ingram Micro - Plainfield, IN 2018 to 2019 Answered numerous calls from customers seeking technical support for their wireless devices.  + Diagnosed and resolved technical hardware and software issues involving internet connectivity, email and other issues.  + Created warranty claims for customers when their devices did not respond adequately after troubleshooting.  + Responsible for escalating claims when device batteries caught fire or exploded.  + Assisted call center agents when they had difficult cases.  + Trained new agents in the use of the EVAVI system.  + Responsible for creating reports on the call volumes and resolution rate. Freelance Web Developer HSN Computer Solutions - Plainfield, IN 2018 to 2019 Created design wireframes for the client.  + Prototyped design concepts for the client to approve  + Created their new web presence using html, CSS, JavaScript and bootstrap.  + Responsible for creating the website graphic designs.  + Maintained and updated website to the client's satisfaction.  + Maintained and updated website documentation. Web Developer Indiana University Purdue University, Indianapolis 2016 to 2018 Collaborated on the Woody Warehouse Nursery Project.  + Adapted quickly to understanding and working on past intern's C# code  + Maintained websites and applications, including content updates, account administration, debugging, and feature enhancements.  + Responsible for creating the application's CSS layout.  + Maintained and updated HTML/CSS/JavaScript files on a regular basis and as required by the client.  + Worked with Agile project management technologies.  + Maintained and updated project documentation. IT Support Technician Efficient Cleaning Services - Plainfield, IN 2014 to 2016 Installed, configured, maintained, and supported all computers within their office.  + Monitored and responded to phone and e-mail requests for technical support.  + Made recommendations on hardware and applications to enhance their productivity.  + Engineered a fully automated billing system for the company with satisfactory results. IT Support Technician Hanzo Logistics - Plainfield, IN 2012 to 2014 Helped to install and maintain the company's computer systems and network.  + Completed timely troubleshooting and repairs when computers had problems.  + Performed upgrades and installed updates.  + Recommended computer products and applications that would enhance productivity.  + Engineered and analyzed Excel spreadsheets that measured employee productivity. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer and Information Technology in Computer and Information Technology Purdue School of Engineering & Technology Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis June 2019 Associates Degree in PC Support and Administration in PC Support and Administration Ivy Tech Community College 2010 to 2013 Skills C#, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Visual basic, Microsoft visual basic, Css, Web design, Database, Sql, Usability, Usability testing, Active directory, Linux, Wireframing, Prototyping, Tech Support, Call Center, Customer Service, Help Desk, Troubleshooting, Tech Support, Customer Service, Troubleshooting, Call Center, Help Desk, Apple Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification Additional Information SKILLS  Bilingual, Microsoft Office Suite, Microsoft Visual Basic, Windows Client Operating Systems, Windows Server 2008 and 2012, Linux Based Operating Systems, Html, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, Responsive Web Design, SQL Database Management, Project Management, Website Usability Testing, A+ Hardware and Software, Active Directory, Agile Development Environment, Scrum Environment, Adobe Creative Suite, Wireframing, WordPress, Ruby on Rails, Bootstrap, Wireframing, Prototyping, C#