Support Analyst Support Analyst Support Analyst Chicago, IL Proud Army veteran with a strong technical aptitude and an extensive background in customer service.  Recently relocated to Chicago and seeking a new challenge. Work Experience Support Analyst Foot Locker, Inc - Brown Deer, WI April 2018 to July 2019 Participated on a project to upgrade the network infrastructure of over 1000 Foot Locker  locations across the US  ? Collaborated with multiple IT teams (internal and external) to troubleshoot various network, hardware, and software issues  ? Monitored network infrastructure alerts for stores and communicated over the phone with retail staff to troubleshoot issues on site prior to escalating incidents to ISP  ? Communicated directly with field service technicians to guide the installation of new  network equipment and wiring of stores network according to standardized topology  ? Remotely configured switches, routers, workstations, POS terminals, and network printers Motor Transport Operator Wisconsin Army National Guard - Sussex, WI April 2012 to April 2018 Attended a rigorous 10-week training course designed to teach the importance of teamwork, discipline, mental fortitude, and attention to detail  ? Operated tactical wheeled vehicles across diverse terrain to transport personnel and cargo  ? Performed preventative maintenance checks and services to vehicles and documented vehicle  usage including fuel, mileage, and faults  ? Maintained 100% punctuality at assigned unit (4 Write Awards) Web Developer Apexx Group - West Allis, WI May 2017 to January 2018 Managed and maintained clients' websites utilizing CMS WordPress and concrete5  ? Met with clients to establish project guidelines and communicate goals  ? Effectively communicated technical information to a cross-functional team Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Information Technology Management University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee, WI Skills Css, Cisco, Nagios, Vmware, Html, Javascript, Sql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Powershell  Systems/Platforms: ServiceNow, ITSM, VMware, Cisco Meraki, Nagios  Soft Skills: Analytical, Personable, Curious, Quick Learner, Attention to Detail