Web Designer/ Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Interactive Designer Gulf Shores, AL Work Experience Web Designer/ Developer Roll SEO - Orange Beach, AL October 2013 to Present Responsibilities  Business Analysis – Search Engine Optimization, Analytics, Web Marketing, Web Design, Wordpress Site Creation and PHP Development with Social Media Marketing.     • Generated and Implemented SEO strategies to improve search engine rankings for multiple clients ranging from National Brand Attorneys to a small vacation rental company.     • Created and Executed the Web Marketing PPC Campaigns to promote and maximize exposure of class action suits , distribution using Google Adwords, Facebook AdCenter, Twitter, and Organic SEO    • Governed the Analytics for entire law firms. Setup Goals, Funnels, tracking codes and constructed segmented reports to shareholders to accurately gauge web projects, campaigns and SEO processes and content management to produce higher conversions.    • Performed Unit, Integration, Stress, Regression, Web, Manual, Automated and other kinds of Quality Assurance (UX) Testing on all web sites and Wordpress Creation Sites.    • Installed, diagnosing, repaired, maintained, and upgrading all hardware and equipment while ensuring optimal workstation performance for clients .    Number 1 Oraginc SEO Ranked Class Action Lawsuit for terms    Xarelto   Bennicar  Stryker    Clients Include.    Bella Beach Properties  My Favorite Agent  Mikatos Japanese Steak House  Levin Law Firm  Boss Law   Affordable Health Care Network  Jordan Law  Sam & Dan LLP  VikiWat Web Designer/ Developer Meyer Vacation Rentals - Gulf Shores, AL March 2013 to January 2014 Senior UX | UI Design Architect Celcite Management Solutions - Herndon, VA August 2012 to August 2013 help convert the product development organization from waterfall to an agile, iterative, customer-centered process; refocused our product portfolio and significantly improved customer satisfaction, time to market, and revenue growth. Launched a tablet version, a suite of windows 8 apps, e-Commerce and SEO improvements, personalization features, product offerings for large enterprises, and more. Nearly tripled user base and doubled revenue in less than a year, while reducing overall customer support volume.    Accomplishments  Cops-Son First ever telecommunications solutions software to incorporate a touch screen mobile tablet version for there enterprise software Senior Technology Consultan Contour Technology Group - Minneapolis, MN January 2011 to June 2012 Provided leadership and knowledge to the design team by overseeing the whole web product life cycle. Helped introduce new products that aided in company’s growth and online presences. Other responsibility’s included creating and rationalizing user-centered designs by considering market analysis, customer feedback, and usability findings. Improved Roi 31% by implementing a new e-commerce system built on a a step-by-step shopping cart aid. Discovered an untapped niche that boosted page views by 9%, and designed to code several micro sites. Education Certificate in Art Direction in Content Marketing, Miami Ad School - Minneapolis, MN 2010 to 2011 Certificate in Interaction Design Academy of Art University - San Francisco, CA 2007 to 2009 Certificate in Web Design / Graphic Design Academy of Art University - San Francisco, CA 2002 to 2004 Skills Microsoft Desktop Support Technician, Mobile Interface Design, User Interface Design, User Experience, HTML 5, CSS3, Flash, Flash Catalyst, Adobe Edge, Information Architecture, JavaScript, E-commerce Solutionse, Local SEO, Mobile Application Design, Ux Design, Adobe Creative Suite, Advertising, Fireworks, Axure, Organic SEO, PPC Campaigns, Social Media, XAML, XML, Drupel, Word Press Certifications/Licenses Certified Scrum Master March 2010 to Present Scrum AllianceLicense 000194256 Google Analytics January 2017 to Present Google Adwords March 2016 to Present Groups Scrum Alliance 2010 to Present Scrum is an agile framework for completing complex projects originally was formalized for software development projects, but works well for any complex, innovative scope of work. Ad Fed January 2010 to Present Ad Fed is a non-profit, professional advertising association serving the local advertising community. Adobe Group 2007 to Present Help teach and guide users through out adobes software.  expertise includes Illustrator, Flash, Edge, Fireworks Additional Information LinkedIn Profile  https://www.linkedin.com/in/uxdeveloper/    Speaker Mtmp   https://mtmp.com/speaker/luke-kist/