Lead Andoid Developer Lead Andoid <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Andoid Developer - Freedom Mortgage Corp Chicago, IL Work Experience Lead Andoid Developer Freedom Mortgage Corp - Charlotte, NC April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Develop prototype application on Android handset and tablet for viewing editing, sharing, and creating montages of photos, videos, events and albums which can be transferred wirelessly across other devices.  • Worked with the Android SDK, and implemented Android Bluetooth and Location Connectivity components.  • Developed the presentation layer (UI) using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, Flash, CSS and client validations using JavaScript  • Design UI screens using JSP, CSS, Struts Framework, Flash, Java Script and HTML.  • Develop step-by-step training resources for iPad IOS technology use.  • Developer mobile site for marketing campaigns by using JQUERY MOBILE and latest technologies.  • Developed Remote Tablet application for IBM Thinkpad; Provided a remote graphical user interface into AIC for scenario interaction through a wireless encrypted connection  • Collaborated with Corel on graphics technologies in WordPerfect, Quattro Pro, and CorelDraw packages.  • Proficiency in web designing using HTML, DHTML, CGI-PERL, Java Script, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), Macromedia Dreamweaver, MS FrontPage, Home site, Adobe Photoshop and CorelDraw.  • Worked on technologies like HTML 5, JavaScript, Backbone.js , JQuery Mobile, High charts.  • Mobile application development with Titanium SDK.  • Worked on Mobile Apps using PhoneGap and PHP.  • Used Sencha Touch to support Android and iOS application.  • Provide customer service and technical support to customers with regards to the iPhone, iMac, iPad and iPod  • Technological Platform used was BlackBerry Widget on the client side, CGI and JDBC on the server side.  • Architected a customized network protocol used by client applications including Android, iOS and Windows Phone 7 to communicate with cloud architectures  • OS Development and maintenance both on UNIX based Blackberry QNX OS as well as the native BlackBerry OS platforms  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring JDBC Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework, Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  • Developed web-based customer management software using Facelets, Icefaces and JSF  • Wrote Angular JS Services to consume RESTful API's, SOAP web services and processing JSON data for rendering in UI. Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, JavaScript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Developed HTML5 Mobile application with HTML5, Java Script, jQuery, JSON and RESTful web service.  • Developed Java and EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment.  • Designing the database and coding of SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Views using IBM DB2.  • Develop innovative and quality solutions by making use of latest tools and technologies like Apache CXF, Spring Core, and Spring AOP.  • Developed a utility in CTP application for Uploading, Downloading and Viewing of 60MB files from DMS application using SOAP Web Services.  • Developed complex Web Services and tailored Apache Axis API to suit the requirement.  • Developed various reusable helper and utility classes using Java Beans with Eclipse editor.  • Developed ANTscripts for the build and deployment of J2EE, WebSphere StudioApplication Devloper (WSAD), Git, GitHub, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL), Servelet, MAVEN applications.  • Written JUNIT test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client side validations  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum.  • Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle.  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in Web Sphere server  • Developed Oracle Stored Procedures to update records on a daily basis and it will invoke using cron job in LINUX; Responsible for the Migration of the application from Web Sphere to JBoss  • Develop complex web applications in PHP, AJAX with Informix as the database to model the business logic of the company which is Supply Chain Management.  • Designed and implemented business functionality for WEB system hidden login authentication, agent import and "can see" using the following technologies: JAXB, SAX, XML, and Servlets.  • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  • Developed master JMS producer, master JMS consumer, and notification manager to implement existing interfaces and hide JMS details from existing (legacy) notification producers and consumers using J2SE DESIGN PATTERNS.  • Develop financial productivity application and tool set using Java and enterprise software tools/technologies such as Subversion, Maven, Weblogic, Apache Tomcat, Sql Server, and Oracle DB.    Environment: IOS, Android, iPhon, Mobile apps, PhoneGap, Titanium, , Java, J2EE, Android, PhoneGap, jqtouc,h Servlets, , Sencha Touch C#/VB.NET, APACHE CXF, soap, Websphere Studio Application Devloper (WSAD), Web services, Eclipse, Websphere Portel, , SQL Server. Lead Android Developer LPL Financial - GE October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed a mobile web App for Intel using Sencha Touch (CSS3, JavaScript, Html5 PHP)  • Developing new products, building multi-lingual websites, iPhone and Android applications, and maintaining older code. Assisting and training new developers and interns.  • Implemented live video broadcasting from Android camera to streaming server.  • Developed share view using Sencha Touch for non flash supporting devices.  • Involved in creation of automation framework using selenium and testing.  • Used Espresso as an Android test automation framework to write powerful and robust automatic black-box test cases.  • Mobile application development with Titanium SDK.  • Developed and implemented many PhoneGap and Titanium applications along with Java and Objective-C plug-ins for iPad, iPhone and Android platforms.  • Develop iPad & iphone web based applications as well as native applications with tools such as HTML 5, CSS3 and Titanium Appcelerator.  • Provided customer service and technical support to customers with regards to the iPhone, iMac, iPad and iPod  • Repair of iPhone generations 3G-4S, glass/screen replacement, Color change, Battery Replacement, ect. Ordering parts and business advertisements.  • Update Titanium with latest features and resolve existing bugs in the platform  • Development of a split billing system - core java, collections, spring, titanium, hibernate, mysql.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring.  • Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables  • Involved in writing SQL Queries and Stored Procedures to be called from IBatis layer.  • Used AngularJS Dependency Injection (DI) to inject Angular Services and Custom Services, as well as built custom Directives to provide reusable component.  • Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating Angular JS with Bootstrap and LESS CSS which is further integrated with Web Services.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development  • Designed and developed multi-protocol telecom Single-Page Architecture  • application using Node.js, Express and Jade on the backend.  • Strong knowledge in Bootstrap.JS and Responsive Web design.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Designed and implemented the web application in Ruby on Rails, Node.js, HTML5 and JQuery from initial concept development to beta launch.  • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling.  • Develop prototype application on Android handset and tablet for viewing editing, sharing, and creating montages of photos, videos, events and albums which can be transferred wirelessly across other devices  • Expertise in working with NoSQL databases including Hbase, Cassandra and its integration with Hadoop cluster  • Developed Rest architecture based webservices to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Designed and Developed WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  • Developed web services API using AXIS for rendering the transport information.  • Engaged with Eclipse for visually designing, constructing, testing and deploying J2EE application and web services.  • Used GIT as Version Control and iText to generate pdf in the form of a tree. Done unit testing using Test NG. Used GIT as version management, JIRA for defect management system.  • Developed ANT scripts for the build and deployment of J2EE, WebSphere StudioApplicationDevloper (WSAD), Git, GitHub, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL), Servelet, MAVEN applications  • Developing test suites in Selenium WebDriver (Java) with TestNG framework in Eclipse IDE for regression and sanity testing.  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Designed, coded, and implemented "File Transfer" and "Cron" Services using java multi-threading technology combined with XML engine and integrated them with the client Systems.  • Design and develop enterprise or application architectures and RFI/RFP delivery solutions using SOA(Service Oriented Architecture), web services, DODAF (Department of Defense Architecture Framework), and segment architecture.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing usingJUnit.  • Leads and coaches customers by using proven Agile software development processes and Continuous Delivery techniques.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML.    Environment: IOS, Android, Titanium, iPhon, Mobile apps, PhoneGap, jqtouch, Servlets, Sencha Touch Java, J2EE, , Hibernate, C#, jQuery, Entity Framework, Oracle, PL/SQL, Cassandra, Hadoop, REST, soap, Web services, Eclipse, Weblogic, Git, GitHub, Junit, UML, JSP,SOA, Agile, XML. Mobile Developer Costco Wholesale Corporation October 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Strong Programming abilities in Objective-C, Cocoa Touch Framework, SQLite, Core Data, iphone SDK.  • Involved in developing hybrid mobile applications in iOS and Android development. Using Javascript, and Phonegap.  • Expert in iPhone, iPad, Objective C, Cocoa/Cocoa Touch, XCode, Swift, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Dojo Mobile, Jquery mobile with rich understanding of frameworks, memory management, multi-threading, best practices, and development tools.  • Created an iPhone application using Appeclerator's Titanium and released it to the Apple app store.  • Developed automation framework for Selenium WebDriver in Page Object Model Framework.  • Design, development, testing and implementation of WEB applications using Sencha touch framework.  • Implemented Change Requests and Enhancements using Flex and Java technologies  • Used BlackBerry JME JDE to test software on the device.  • Develop Silverlight application using Onion/PRISM Architecture.  • Develop hands-on in-seat, online, & iPad curriculum college wide  • Environments developed for include Windows, UNIX, PALM OS, Pocket PC/Windows CE, Avantgo, RIM Blackberry, WAP, MIDP and the internet.  • Responsible, efficient, cooperative and eager to learn new technology Skilled in developing APIs for middle ware Framework modules for DOJO mobile platforms using C and C++ and Java  • Developed a multi platform phone app for iOS, Android, Blackberry and Windows Phone 7 using PhoneGap and Sencha Touch.  • Configured Selenium RC and Selenium GRID on CART machines.  • Developed prototypes using Flex 3, ActionScript 3, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture (Struts Framework), Hibernate and EJB deployed on Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle 8i database. The Application is designed using J2EE technologies based on Spring MVC architecture.  • Used iBatis and MyBatis ORM tools which automate the mapping between SQL databases and objects in Java.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using Struts Tiles Framework, HTML, JSP.  • Implement the presentation layer (GUI), based on open source framework, involving Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Beans.  • Developed Mobile App in Titanium Appcelerator IDE using JavaScript, Obj C and Java.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Developed AJAX functionalities using frameworks like JSON, DOJO and JQuery.  • Developed JavaScript based components using ExtJS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  • Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, JavaScript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, using eAgent frame work JSPs, HTML, AJAX, JQuery, iFrame and JavaScript.  • Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.  • Developed a Web Application using Java with the Google Web Toolkit API with PostgreSql  • Primary UI developer for Google Web Toolkit (GWT)-based VDI-in-a-Box management console  • Worked on EXT JS with Restful and Soap Web service technologies.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  • Developed PL/SQL store procedures for data migration and database upgrade from oracle using TOAD.  • Involved in migration of Data from Excel, Flat file, Oracle, XML files to SQL Server by using BCP and DTS utility.  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate3.0 standards, to access data from IBM DB2  • Oracle Coherence in Java Collection API to access and modify data, and the JavaBean event model to receive data change notifications.  • Experience working with Oracle coherence for Sharing and Managing data in a cluster using Javacollection classes.  • Design and Developed using WebService using Apache Axis 2 on JBOSS.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Led development team using J2EE creating web enabled invoicing system for multiple location service company in NetBeans environment using Git-Hub version control.  • Developed ANT scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server.  • Worked on EXT JS with Restful and Soap Web service technologies  • Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++.  • GUI automation work (selenium webdriver) in Java and tcl/tk scripts  • Designed Use Cases using UML and managed the entire functional requirements life cycle using water fall model.  • Design and development of components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML  • Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Servlets, EJB's using Web sphere Studio Application Developer and used CVS for version control.  • Implemented Action classes (Action Servlet, Action) and Form beans (Action Form) using Struts Framework.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins for Continuous Integration from pulling up the code from version control tools like GIT, SVN, CVS, IBM Clear Case and building Artifacts using build tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle  • and MS Build. And deploying them into artifact repositories like Nexus and Maven Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  • Deployed complex systems on client site that includes EMC Documentum & IBM FileNet.  • Designed and developed client and server components of an administrative console for a business process engine framework using Java, Google Web Toolkit and Spring technologies.  • Tracked software issues and project progress enterprise-wide using Bugzilla, Jira, VersionOne, ClearQuest and XPlanner.    Environment: IOS, Android, Mobile Apps, Servlets, Titanium, iPhon, Mobile apps, PhoneGap, C#/VB.NET, SQL Server, Sencha ExtJS Java, J2EE, Spring, Dojo, Javascript, JQuery, DOJO, GWT, EXT JS, MY SQL, WSDL, Netbeans, Jboss, TOAD, SQL server, DB2, coherence, APACHE AXIS2. Sr. Web Developer Gilead Sciences - Seattle, WA April 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created numerous web applications utilizing MV, C#, jQuery, AJAX and Web Services.  • Developed an Android keyboard entry game with different selectable skins in a dynamic drawing  • threaded environment.  • Worked with the Android SDK and implemented Android Bluetooth and Location Connectivity components.  • Involved in requirement gathering and designing of the application.  • Used fragments to build small reusable pieces that are easier to manage and allow for a more fluid visual design and also can adapt to different device resolutions.  • Constructing http requests, fetching server response and parsing feeds wherever required.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Integrated location-based services using Google Maps API to display locations of the nearest stores.  • Created a local database using SQLite to store and retrieve data.  • Worked with Dialog Fragments for Pop-up and Used List Adapters, Spinners, and Loaders.  • Utilizedlog cat, DDMSand TraceView for debugging and detecting memory leaks.  • Implemented unique design for portrait and landscape mode.  • Converted data from API into JSON format files and retrieve useful information using AJAX calls to display them on the browser.  • Used Ionic and Cordova framework for building the hybrid mobile app.  • Worked closely with web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile and web applications by using Ionic and Cordova frameworks.  • Used third party SDKs and libraries like Crittercism, Apptentive, Google Analytics, EventBus, Couchbase, Retrofit, and Picasso for tracking crashes and usage data, loading images, API calls, etc.  • Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs, participated in daily standups, sprint reviews and Kickoffs.  • Tested the application on various Android devices.  • Involved in prototyping, analysis, specification, design, and implementation phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Design screens using MVC pattern for the application with Android Studio IDE.  • Utilized View Pager, Fragments, custom views and List Views for clean and intuitive UI.  • Included Drawer layout for ease of navigation throughout the application.  • Embedded user login functionality with client server and Facebook login API.  • Used Android to realize camera/video application, familiar with SOAP/RESTful webservice and httpconnnections, liking JSON, HttpUrlConnection, HttpClient.  • Used the Wi-Fi Manager of the Android API to establish the connections between client and server.  • Debugged and wrote test code to verify the new kernel using JTAG debugger.  • Implemented Camera API to scan the bar code of the product.  • Worked with video players Like NexPlayer, VisualOn, Widevine, ExoPlayer and responsible for integrating and testing video streaming and DRM content.  • Performed on device debugging using ADB and tested application in device using Logcat, DDMS.  • Used SCRUM-Agile software development method for managing application developments.  • Developed using Android Studio & Gradle with Git and GitHub source control systems.  • Designing UI screen for Insurance Quote to get User information with JSP.  • Developing Action Classes, Service Classes for Resident Insurance Premium payment module.  • Developed reusable web components, JSP, Servlets and JavaBeans that use the MVC pattern to access EJB (Entity Beans) for the modules of user registration.  • Writing PL/SQL Queries to get schedule of policy payment and defaults.  • Developing Session beans for Insurance Quotes.    Environment: Android, Android SDK, iPhone, IOS, Mobile apps, PhoneGap Servlets, Android studio Activity, Fragment, Service, Titanium, Material design, SQLite, Multi-threading, POST, JSON, Bluetooth, Linux Kernel, Java, java script, JQuery. HTML, J2EE, JSP, Web Services, XML, Oracle, JUnit, Eclipse, UML, WebSphere, Struts. Web Developer Collateral Risk Solutions - Silver Spring, MD May 2010 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created and maintained numerous business critical applications. These applications were the cornerstone of the organization and needed to be highly effective as well as very efficient.  • Developed efficiency reports for senior management.  • Developed an online task assignment application. This application is used to assign various tasks in the business process to an employee and provide relevant metrics to management.  • Developed and maintained web services to allow clients to submits orders and receive reports.  • Worked closely with various department heads throughout the SDLC.  • Created a repository on GitHub and connected with local and server for developer maintain the application code on local.  • Involved in Automation of Web Application using Selenium.  • Experienced in ALM Tools TFS, Jira, VersionOne, Rally as Scrum Master for project planning, metrics and reporting.  • Developed a web-based system with HTML, XML, Java Script, JSP Tag Libraries, CSS and Custom Tag Libraries using Struts 1.2 framework.  • Worked with SOAP, dependency injection frameworks and Java Servlets.  • Designed and developed lots of custom Wordpress codes, themes and plug-in.  • Worked heavily on Drupal CMS development and developed various custom modules.  • Expertise in developing application using Microsoft .NET framework, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, VB.NET, C#, WPF.  • Utilized ASP.NET 2.0 validation controls and JavaScript to perform client side validation.  • Re-Designed, coded, implemented and tested new features using C#, C++, QT.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Android, IOS, Mobile Apps, C#/VB.NET, SQL Server 2005, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, REST/SOAP, Crystal Reports, Agile, Silverlight ,GITHUB ,SELENIUM ,SCRUM ,JSP,SERVLETS,WORDPRESS,DRUPAL,.NET,ASP,C++ Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science University Of Delaware