Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - IT Leader - Business Entrepreneur Maple Grove, MN As a software developer with experience supporting enterprise and startup projects, my skills have been vetted across a wide range of working environments. I pride myself on bringing new business ideas to life with business, legal, and technical assets required to formally launch some product.     My days are built on strong communication and a positive attitude. I enjoy leaning on my natural leadership qualities to guide the team in delivering a high-quality product. Collaborating with technical and business personnel to produce something that adds value to the economy is very rewarding. I am addicted to building things, and I most enjoy working with people who work in a humble, selfless, and low-ego manner.    Full stack developer focused on the following tech stack: Front End Development (ES6, Ember, Angular, CoffeeScript), Cloud (AWS [EC2, S3, CloudWatch, Lambdas], Heroku), Databases (MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Firebase), Micro Services, RESTful API (Java Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Express), NodeJS (Express, Loopback, WebSockets), CSS Preprocessors (less, sass), templating engines (Handlebars, Jade/Pug, HTL), Content Management Systems (Adobe Experience Manager, WordPress), CI/CD tooling, Maven, Gulp, Jenkins, IoT development (Alexa), shell scripting, linux, windows, Linux subsystem for Windows, mac, RPi, and the list goes on. Work Experience Software Engineer NIELSEN - Minneapolis, MN October 2017 to Present Responsible for the IoT SaaS application’s customer facing user interface (UI). Lead UI engineer accountable for delivering application features that meet business requirements and exceed expectations. Contribute to random R&D concepts that test the limitations of available technology.    ? Use Ember JavaScript (ES6) framework to create a component-centric application that is highly idiomatic and maintainable.    ? Leverage modern JS frameworks to bring OOP principles to the world of disarray that pure JavaScript offers.     ? Control application, window, and browser state management using native cache storage mechanisms to manage SPA and PWA features, while maintaining cross browser compatibility.    ? Integrate UI with SOA SaaS services via Java Spring Boot REST API and NodeJS API, over HTTPS and WSS.    ? Use development tools such as command line interface(s) and a massively wide range of NPM packages to manage mature and modern repositories.    ? Avoid blockers by creating mock services, reverse proxies, and other creative things (using NodeJS and Python) to proactively develop, test and stress applications while waiting for other people/teams to formally resolve their dependencies.    ? Invoke serverless (Lambda) functionality usually for DevOps purposes, but also for integrating certain CRUD features with AWS DynamoDB.    ? Create Python3 Lambda functions to control AWS EC2 instance state in accordance with our custom CICD process.    ? Create various bash scripts to serve various automation procedures in our AWS cloud environment.    ? Dabble in other R&D projects that pop up that have required usage/exploration of ElasticSearch and Kibana, Angular, browser Service Workers, V8, Google Cobalt, RPi Linux, etc. Contract Web Developer UNITEDHEALTH GROUP/OPTUM - Eden Prairie, MN February 2017 to September 2017 Support efficiency improvement objectives by migrating legacy applications to modern application architecture that ultimately satisfied the primary business goal of increasing program profitability. Delivered server side code to a scrum team focused on delivering web  applications that solved complex healthcare challenges. Contributed thought leadership to complex technical endeavors, and provided  leadership in coding best practice, AEM knowledge transfer, and API optimization.  ? Created new, and extend existing, HIPAA compliant Java services using state of the art security and cryptography standards, to expose business logic via a REST API to an online web portal.    ? Shared knowledge and experience with other developers in a mentoring fashion. Pair programmed when time allowed to explore  perspectives for accomplishing technical goals.    ? Configured localhost, openshift environments, apache web proxy servers, Jenkins, and Git repositories to enable a development  workflow that prioritizes simplicity and code review. Contract Web Developer CRU - Orlando, FL October 2016 to March 2017 Remotely contributed to an agile software development team focused on upgrading Adobe Experience Manager to new version (6.2)  using Sightly/HTL and Angular2 for a new microsite designed to drive new and convert traffic to meet business sales objectives.    ? Migrated AEM components and templates from old AEM technologies to new Sightly (i.e., HTL) templating language and JavaScript  USE API. Created and ensured dialogs for Touch UI were compatible with new authoring interface.    ? Built new microsite using Angular2, ES6, SASS, Sightly/HTL, and USE API to streamline development effort. Leveraged Gulp build  system to compile the scripts and styles for distribution. Full Stack Developer FOURCUBED - Minneapolis, MN August 2016 to October 2016 Executive consultancy designed to transform a team of developers via change management that targeted improving processes, to include introducing a software development lifecycle using daily scrum, 2 week sprints, and LEAN Agile story implementation. Heavily  contributed to a new executive IT strategy and architecture - including application monitoring and disaster management.    ? Extended RESTful Ruby on Rails API to support complex affiliate marketing requirements, leveraging unique tracking methodology  for collecting accurate data on traffic and conversion results. Integrated Ruby on Rails API with CoffeeScript and KnockoutJS web  portal designed to serve the affiliate member users. Contract Web Developer UNITEDHEALTH GROUP/OPTUM - Eden Prairie, MN April 2016 to August 2016 Lead Developer responsible for ensuring the delivery timeline was on track, developers and QA understood their tasks. Called attention  to risk and opportunities on a daily basis. Wrote high quality client side and server side code. Made architectural decisions regarding Service and UI design, created iron-clad code that satisfied the regulated industry's strict security guidelines and enforced development  best practices.    ? Collaborated with cross-functional teams to strategize improvement opportunities with version control, code deployments, service  design, front-end best practices, Javascript optimization, and other tasks designed to leverage AEM to its fullest capacity.    ? Wrote complex component logic using Javascript (JQuery and AngularJS) to develop responsive single page applications across the site that prioritized front-end MVC best practices, performance, and security. Debugged Java REST Services to ensure CRUD to  various databases was operational, code is functional, and response was accurate. Modified services within a regulated industry with strict security guidelines. Web Developer CAPELLA UNIVERSITY - Minneapolis, MN December 2014 to April 2016 Developed responsive web applications writing complex HTML5, SCSS, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS and JSTL to enhance the user  experience with rich web features. Accommodated business requests for new template and components in an iterative agile  development environment. Prioritized best practice and performance while driving projects to completion. Occasionally worked within existing Java Scriptlets, Viewhelpers and Beans.    ? Proposed strategic plans to a repository upgrade initiatives, refactoring initiatives, and a massive legacy code migration initiative - home rolled CMS to AEM.  ? Contributed LEAN principles to defining the ideal Agile sprint anatomy, including a model that supported an on-shore off-shore  development strategy. Documented internal process and complex configurations, to ensure continual transfer of knowledge amongst the team.    ? Ensured version control (Git) is clean and orderly - communicating daily with the onshore and offshore development teams about status of branching, builds and deployments via Jenkins and GO, and environment code ready to test. Web Producer CAPELLA UNIVERSITY - Minneapolis, MN June 2014 to December 2014 Operated within various web properties, including AEM, to update marketing content on the external facing Capella website. Bridged  gaps between Marketing, Operations, and Engineering teams to reduce miscommunication and improve expectation management.    ? Provided site hierarchy arrangement recommendations to the Technical Architects, to invoke positive change to website organization  and simplify the content management process for AEM web/content authors.    ? Communicated production recommendations, risks, challenges and solutions to the business during project kickoffs, throughout sprints, and prior to deployment. Work with cross-functional teams to set requirements and expectations for project completion. Front End Developer MARINE RETAILERS ASSOCIATION - Minneapolis, MN March 2013 to June 2014 Enhance customers online experience through client side development that creates a superb digital user interface. Plan, develop, and execute online marketing campaigns designed to improve conversion, while expanding visibility and authority of company brand.    ? Designed and develop responsive web pages using HTML, CSS, pure JavaScript and JQuery on a daily basis, while working within multiple content management systems, to extend functionality and improve the user experience. Ensure cross browser compatibility for  developed features on primary site, custom- built landing pages, microsites and other supporting web pages.    ? Maintained website functionality and monitored performance via Google Analytics. Investigate traffic associated with different web  features to plan strategy for improvement. Founder BAND OF WORTHINESS - Minneapolis, MN Founder of Band of Worthiness, a startup affiliate marketing program designed to help gamers who stream generate revenue while streaming game play to popular streaming mediums. This product features: AWS Lambdas, AWS API Gateway (and resource policies that securely integrate access with other cloud systems), a NodeJS REST API on Heroku Dynos, an EC2 hosted Ember web portal administering CRUD functions against APIs that control data in AWS DynamoDB (NoSQL) and Heroku Postgres databases, and integration with PayPal's Instant Payment Notification (IPN) network. Founder PRECISE IMPRESSION - Minneapolis, MN Founder of Precise Impression, a startup SaaS company that delivers a machine learning software suite designed to enable real-time in-browser content-centric marketing messages, based on a user's current behavior and aggregated user trends. This platform combines Google Firebase DB, Heroku PostGres DB, Heroku Dynos, PHP, microservices, big data caching  solutions, AngularJS web portal for settings management and content management. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration Capella University May 2020 Bachelor of Arts Hamline University May 2013 Skills API (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), JAVA (3 years), POSTGRES (3 years), Devops (6 years), AWS (2 years), Linux (2 years), Javascript (6 years), HTML (8 years), CSS (8 years), Git (7 years), MYSQL Military Service Branch: United States Army Service Country: United States Rank: ES4 2007 to 2010 Commendations: Army Commendation Medal, Army Achievement Award (2nd Award), National Defense Service Medal, Global War On Terrorism Service Medal, Korean Defense Service Medal, Army Service Ribbon, Overseas Service Ribbon, Expert Infantryman Badge Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  ? Software Engineering ? Business & IT Knowledge Gap Management  ? IT & Cloud Operations ? Agile Project Management  ? Delivery Best Practices & Process Efficiencies ? Leadership, Team Building & Mentorship  ? Strategic Planning & Analysis ? Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, LEAN    Programming: HTML (JSTL, HBS, Pug, Sightly), CSS (Bootstrap, Foundation, Material Design),  JavaScript (Angular, Ember, JQuery), code coverage (QUnit, Karma, JUnit), NodeJS  (LoopBack, Express, Restify), Java (Spring Boot), pSQL, SQL, noSQL, Content  Management Systems (AEM, WordPress), Analytics (Google Analytics, New Relic)    DevOps: Web Servers (Apache, Nginx), Proxy Servers, Vagrant, VirtualBox, VMWare Workstation,  Git, BitBucket, Jenkins, Bash, Cron, Gulp, Linux, Mac, Windows    Databases: Dynamo, RDS, Firebase, PostGres, MySQL, MongoDB    Cloud: AWS (DynamoDB, RDS, EC2, Lambda, S3, API Gateway, IAM, CloudWatch, Route53),  Heroku (CI, Dynos)    Project Management: VersionOne, JIRA, Confluence, Rally, Flowdock, Trello, Atlassian