LMS Administrator / Web Developer LMS Administrator / <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Palm Bay, FL Experienced Freelance Web Developer with a demonstrated history of working in the e-learning industry. Skilled in Moodle, Totara, JS, Search Engine Optimization (SEO), PHP, Retail, and Web Administration. Passionated with Web Technologies, Game Development and Music Composition. Strong engineering professional with Credits Completed focused in Computer Science and Music Education from Inter-American University of Puerto Rico-San Germán Campus. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience LMS Administrator / Web Developer Capella University - Minneapolis, MN January 2018 to Present As a LMS Administrator at Capella University, I am in charge of the site maintenance, updates and configurations in a Totara(Moodle) environment. I work directly with the Client Success Manager in order to offer the best service to the clients. Successfully completed various platform migration to a custom LMS solution.    Part of my role include Front End Development and deep understanding on how Learning Management Systems work. Ticket resolution and customer support.    Skills:    • Learning Management System  • E-learning   • Moodle  • Totara  • Sophia  • CMS  • CSS  • JavaScript  • Understanding of PHP  • HTML5  • Markup language (WIKI)  • GitHub  • GitLab  • Email Development LMS Administrator Blue & White Taxi - Minneapolis, MN April 2016 to Present Working as a LMS Administrator (Moodle) I converted the physical training delivery method into a web based delivery system (E-learning), where employees can log in and get certified in order to keep in compliance with the company.    Skills and Duties:    • Training employees and instructors in using the system.  • Conflict resolution when problems arise.  • Created new features to enhance the experience.  • Helped employees with website related issues.  • Upgrading plugins and installation.  • Weekly Database and Course backups.  • Web Developer duties (HTML, CSS, PHP).  • Created reports and analysis. Asset Protection Specialist Target - Saint Paul, MN November 2016 to December 2017 • Responsible for following rigorous procedures and systems  • Fast and accurate use of Camera system to prevent theft and to ensure a safety shopping experience across the store.  • Writing reports, contacting law enforcement if needed, documentation and other related duties.  • Capable of thinking quickly and creatively to solve problems  • Efficiently and accurately enter data into various programs  • Prevented loss of merchandise by providing a visible presence   • Trained Team Members and other Target Protection Specialist  • Support role on apprehension of shoplifters Web Developer Gogomatika - Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN November 2014 to December 2016 Web Solution Company    • Created domains and websites.  • Managed various domains and websites.  • Monitored SEO, Meta Tags, Google Webmaster and Sitemaps.  • Created and managed multiple FTP and Emails account.  • Code cleanup on various websites.  • Coded responsive designs from Photoshop mock-ups and from scratch.    Tech:  • Codeigniter 3 MVC  • CMS  • LMS  • Website Administration  • Email Administration  • HTML5, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, MySQL, XAMPP  • Cpanel, Linux hosting, Filezilla, Sublime Text 3 Webmaster Monkey Man Labs - Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN July 2014 to December 2016 Acting as a Webmaster for the online products and a vendor in major conventions and events across United States.     List of recent events :   - Wizard World Comic Con: Philadelphia, PA.   - Wizard World Comic Con: Des Moines, IA.   - Wizard World Comic Con: Minneapolis, MN.   - Meta Con: Minneapolis, MN.     Administration of social media accounts. Link building and exposure. Creating new content to maintain the social base active. Working with the company directly to complete goals. Sending traffic to the website store and increasing sales. Presentation Team Member Target - Saint Paul, MN July 2016 to November 2016 Presentation Team in charge of the store layout and appearance. Duties include, reading and understanding plans or blueprints and been able to follow design pattern across the store in a fast and efficient way.  - Store Resets  - Setup new displays  - Read blueprints  - Helping with the overall layout of the store and reset when needed.  - Seasonal resets Education Completed Coursework (3 years) - (No degree obtained). in Computer Science, General Education and Music Education coursework completed. Inter American University of Puerto Rico-San German Skills HTML (6 years), Javascript (4 years), PHP (3 years), CSS (6 years), Codeigniter PHP MVC (3 years), Joomla (3 years), Customer Service (4 years), Web Development (6 years), SEO (3 years), Moodle (3 years), Administrator (4 years), LMS (4 years), CMS (5 years), Totara (2 years), Qualtrics (1 year), Salesforce (1 year), Remote (5 years), Higher Education (2 years), C# (1 year), LMS Administrator (3 years), Webmaster (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jay-torres-a2a99345/ Assessments Customer Service Skills — Proficient August 2019 Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/drys5v6sf9swqrku Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.