WordPress Admin/ Web Developer WordPress Admin/<span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> WordPress Admin/ Web Developer - Social Impact Cambridge, MA Business-focused professional with experience in Front End development and Administration. Develop and design functional and responsive UI webpages from wireframes and mock-ups. Help contribute in the fixing of UI bugs. Created several designs using Adobe Dreamweaver, Illustrator, and Photoshop. Created and enforced website security policies and backups. Lead and contribute in stand-ups and other Agile/SCRUM ceremonies and daily procedures. Preforms remarkably under pressure in environments that use deadlines. Very effective in communicating needs and goals across all facets of a team. Works well with both clients and team members alike. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience WordPress Admin/ Web Developer Social Impact - Washington, DC March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Advocated Web interaction design best practices, with a focus on consistency and usability  • Assured that all user input is validated before submitting to back-end  • Built reusable code and libraries for future use  • Collaborated with User Interface and User Experience teams  • Collaborated with other team members and stakeholders  • Collaborated with the design team to define the information architecture  • Created clean, precise browser-compatible code  • Designed functionality  • Developed site content and graphics by coordinating with copywriters and graphic artists; designing images, icons, banners, audio enhancements, etc.  • Developed site navigation by categorizing content; funneling traffic through content  • Implemented page designs in standards-compliant dynamic XHTML and CSS  • Optimized application for maximum speed and scalability  • Planned site/project design by clarifying goals  • Prioritized and managed multiple tasks across multiple projects, under tight deadlines  • Rolled out and scaled new web sites that integrate consumer marketing and social media WordPress Admin/ Web Developer International Food Policy Research Institute - Washington, DC June 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Built company-wide official email pages and templates using HTML and HTML5 banner ads  • Employed CSS, HTML, and PHP skills as needed.  • Worked with a skilled team of art directors, writers, information architects, and others to serve as a key contributor in the development of interactive designs  • Created and implemented unit test across specific devices and browsers.  • Helped create an optimum user experience by integrating different methodologies in the entire flow of the product  • Created products that met and exceeded the requirements initially stated by stakeholders Junior Web Developer/Administrator Food & Water Watch - Washington, DC June 2013 to May 2015 Recreated the entire company website using WordPress. Was also in charge of creating microsites for clients, updating existing pages, and providing any sort of IT or web development support to Food & Water Watch staff/clients as needed.    Responsibilities:  • Developed and implemented mobile device responsive UI designs and back-end analytics tracking for company website  • Mastered use of HTML, XHTML, ColdFusion, PHP, JavaScript and CSS in the monitoring and customization of microsites and webpages  • Integrated different modules (pdf readers, social media feeds, Google maps, ect) into different facets of the website.  • Maintained website for most up-to date technology, software, and information.  • Received feedback from users and translated them into respective issues and bugs.  • Remediated bugs and implemented fixes.  • Worked as web master to enforce password-changing standards for all web related logins.  • Created and enforced a comprehensive website security policy.  • Implemented and managed a complete website content backup.  • Created a website strategy encompassing SEO, best practices and current technology trends.  • Served as in-house development and RFP creator for outside vendors.  • Managed the staff directory on the Intranet and was the POC for tracking and documenting the inventory in all 15 locations. Education Information Technology Training Northern Virginia Community College Arlington - Arlington, VA business Cisco Networking Academy partnership Northern Virginia Community College Skills CSS (4 years), HTML (2 years), PHP (2 years), COLDFUSION (2 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), Word Press, HTML5, Angular, Wordpress, Website Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL:    Languages: HTML, XHTML, CSS, ColdFusion, PHP, JavaScript, Ruby, Python  Operating Systems: Windows 7, 8, 8.1, 10; Mac OSX 10.7, 10.8, 10.9, 10.10, 10.11, 10.12; and Linux Red Hat Enterprise  Devices: iPhone 4s, 5, 5s, 6, 6s, 7; iPad Pro devices, iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad 1st gen and 2nd gen; iOS 7, 8, 9, 10; Android Kit-Kat, Lollipop, Marshmallow, Nougat  RDBMS: SQL (Basic understanding of databases and queries)  Software: Microsoft Office Suite 2010 & 2013, Norton Ghost, Sharepoint, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, InDesign, Tableau  Hardware: Mac and Windows machines