Operations processor Operations processor Operations processor - WELLS FARGO MORTGAGE Minneapolis, MN • Sound knowledge of web programming languages: CSS, HTML, JavaScript, PHP, JAVA and J2EE.  • 2019 Saint Paul College Presidential honor gold medallion award winner for academic achievement.  • Ample Knowledge of web standards and accessibility (W3C and s508) and manipulating the DOM.  • Implemented browser-independent designs and cross-browser issues (IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, etc) on all platforms  • Maintained and updated HTML/CSS and templates on a regular basis and as required.  • Ability to create production-quality CSS, and HTML for web applications with support for mobile and tablet devices.  • Build secure websites that use the latest methods to protect against potential threats.  • Analytical, attention to detail, excellent team player with multi-tasking abilities in fast-paced environment.  • Ability to work well under pressure to meet hard deadlines and stay within budget while still being able to provide customers with high quality service.  • Team player with proven ability to work with client and project teams Work Experience Operations processor WELLS FARGO MORTGAGE - Eagan, MN August 2018 to Present • Read, analyzed, validated and verified mortgage documents.  • Identified and resolved discrepancies in data entry.  • Researched and resolved issues with documentation.  • Processed information quickly and with a high degree of accuracy. Web Developer WANLAINJO - Brooklyn, MN May 2017 to Present • Contributed to design and development of client and server database applications.  • Developed dynamic and interactive website that ensured high traffic, page views, and user experience, resulting in increase in sales revenue  • Maintained and updated HTML/CSS/JavaScript/PHP templates on a regular basis and as required.  • Assisted in planning and implementing dynamic and online ecommerce applications.  • Conducted layout design and construction for a variety of websites as assigned  • Provided technical consultation t to clients.  • Design new features for existing websites. Assembler MEDTRONIC - Minneapolis, MN November 2017 to August 2018 • Worked from visual aids, method layouts, diagrams, schematics, process flow sheets and written or verbal assembly instructions.  • Conducted quality inspections on processing line in accordance with quality specifications.  • Disassembled, modified, reworked, reassembled, and tested experimental or prototype assemblies and subassemblies according to specifications and under simulated conditions. Officer ETHIOPIAN AIRLINE - Addis Ababa, ET January 2012 to August 2016 Navigation and Aeronautical Information Service Officer  • Developed Application software for NOTAM Filter.  • Monitored data maintenance, navigation data base update, and performance of the flight planning system.  • Developed application software for flight crew scheduling.  • Updated the latest weather, currency, and flight rules data on the flight planning system and Aircraft database.  • Contributed optimized cost saving application to routes to Ethiopian Airlines with estimated saving of $1.7 million/month.  • Computed payload capabilities and evaluated airports for scheduled and ADHOC flights.  • Worked with big team of crew scheduling, catering, maintenance and operation managers in cost saving projects.  • Appointed by Ethiopian Airlines operations center Director to mange and supervise Malawian Airlines assistant dispatchers oversee.  • Helped in conflict resolution and handled customer issues that occasionally escalated to the management level.  • Ensured projects are completed on time according to corporate quality standard. Freelance Web Developer Addis Ababa, ET May 2013 to July 2016 Ethiopia    • Developed, optimized and maintained the websites and applications utilizing HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery and various APIs to meet my clients' needs and goals  • Implement browser-independent designs and cross-browser issues (IE, Firefox, Safari etc) on all platforms.  • Applied extensive search engine optimization principles and social media to outrank competition on Google and other search engines across a variety of keywords that drive traffic to produce profits.  • Developed and modified word press themes and plugins using PHP, JavaScript, jQuery, and MySQL.  • Implemented UX focused, fluid responsive websites and build out web presences. Education Web development program in Web Development Saint Paul College-A Community and Technical College - Saint Paul, MN January 2017 to May 2019 AMBO UNIVERSITY 2018 Master of Science degree in Environmental Science JIMMA UNIVERSITY July 2011 Skills Git, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, MYSQL, ORACLE Additional Information KEY SKILLS  HTML5 J2EE SEO SPSS  CSS3 Bootstrap4 script.aculo.us Sabre Systems  JavaScript Oracle SQL MySQL GIS & ERDAS  JQUERY Version control (GIT) Testing & debugging KOFAX  Responsive Design PHP Browser Developer tools RASCAL  Java WordPress Wire Framing ARROW