UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - United Airlines Chicago, IL • Having 5+ years of professional experience in developing and designing User Interface for web applications with deep insight using HTML 4/5, CSS2/3, Bootstrap,JavaScript, Angular 2/4, ReactJS,jQuery, AJAX, JSON, and NodeJS.  • Excellent knowledge in CSS with preprocessors like LESS and SASS.  • Experience in creating web applications using Angular 1.x/2.0/4.0 and ReactJS.  • Developed Responsive web design(RWD) using Media Queries and Bootstrap.  • Expertise in JavaScript coding and developed various Client-side validation libraries using JavaScript.  • Expert in working with JavaScript frameworks and libraries like AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Backbone and Restful services.  • Extensive knowledge and working experience in developing single-page applications(SPA) using of web development technologies such as, JavaScript, jQuery UI, AngularJS, Angular2/4, HTML5, CSS3, SASS and Bootstrap.  • Experience in using various jQuery controls and corresponding Event handlers etc.  • Good experience in JavaScript MVC framework like AngularJS.  • Strong experience in using React JS along with Redux and Flux for creating reusableUI components.  • Expert knowledge of modern back-end JavaScript (Node.js), front-end JavaScript, Angular 2/4, HTML, & CSS, including libraries and frameworks.  • Experience in NodeJS modules like grunt, bowerto integrate with designs and requirements  • Used Webpack for client-side and server-side development with NodeJS.  • Created a dashboard using Bootstrap 3.0., Used D3.js for charting, jQuery and JavaScript for creating view models.  • Pleasant experience working in Aviation, media, commercial and broadcasting domains.  • Expert-level knowledge of cross-browser, cross-platform compatibility and design constraints and Google analytics.  • Used Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment tools such as Jenkins.  • Implemented test driven development using Testing tools like Grunt/Gulp.  • Used GIT, SVN for Version controlling, error reporting and project management tools JIRA.  • Worked on Unit test by Test-Driven Development (TDD),writing test cases using Jasmine, QUnit, Karma, Mocha, Chai and Protractor for E2E testing.  • Implemented Ecommerce digital transformation for client teams to innovative solutions.  • Dedicated team Player with excellent, communication and Interpersonal skills.  • Experience in complete software SDLC which includes requirement gathering, coding, design, analysis, testing using Agile involved in daily SCRUM meetings and Sprint cycles. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing web pages using React.js, and Redux.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Implemented various screens for the front-end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Worked in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Experience with Asynchronous Redux Actions using Redux thunk Middleware to retrieve data from Back-End (API's, WebSocket).  • Used ECMAScript (ES6), JSX, and Types with React JS for component development.  • Used ReactJS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Built a prototype front-end React/Node.js application that utilizes a third-party API to create "moves"  • Configured Web pack to execute linters, magnifiers, pre/post-processors, tests, transpires, etc. based on build target.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app.  • Implemented React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable).  • Utilized Web Sockets with React to maintain consistent and real-time state across users.  • Worked with Zeera unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Used Node JS to run Web pack tasks and build properly the project.  • Using Babel for compiling purpose to convert ES-6 to ES-5 to support for every browser in the market.  • Knowledge on Node.js environment set-up and interacted Node Service team to get the Service. UI Developer Charter - Spectrum Cable - St. Louis, MO July 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on web applications from scratch using Angular2/4 to develop single page application (SPA).  • Designed and developed the login portal using framework Angular2 along with HTML5, CSS3 and TypeScript.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2/4, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Developed the Application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular2 and Angular4.  • Design and implementation of project setup using Angular2 and Angular4.  • Experience in Web Services Technologies with Node.js and implemented SOA architecture with web services.  • Creating Angular 4 components and custom directives for application functionality and pipes for heavy DOM manipulation and implemented lazy loading and AOT to improve application quality and performance in low bandwidth connections.  • As part of an agile development team, I developed Angular 4 web applications connected to a Laravel Backend serving JSON Data.  • Experience in build and deployment process of Angular 4 applications using Angular CLI, Webpack and Linting tool.  • Implementing Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as customer performs application tasks.  • Used Webpack to build Typescript modules.  • Developed layouts using HTML5, CCS3, Angular2/4, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Integrated the different pages to be a single page application using Angular 4 and Typescript.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 2.  • Hands-on in developing menu and navigation layouts CSS flexbox and Bootstrap Grids.  • Responsive designing using CSS media queries and Bootstrap framework.  • Communicating with servers and interaction with API with AJAX XML HTTP which request data from web server and JSON to represent data.  • Used angular styling widgets like bootstrap for designing Rich UI components.  • Attending and reporting in daily stand-up meetings as a part of SCRUM Working with other functional teams as a part of the AGILE team.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 2/4, Typescript, Karma, Bootstrap, AJAX, AGILE, Visual studio code, JSON and jQuery. UI Developer American Bureau of Shipping (ABS) - Houston, TX January 2017 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application for responsive to different screen resolutions using Bootstrap and CSS media queries.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Developed external page using jQuery (from the same domain) inside a container when a tab is clicked on via Ajax call and to support auto mode.  • Used various Bootstrap components like accordion, date picker, time picker, alert, buttons, modal and React-bootstrap components.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • UsedReact-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  • Thorough understanding of CSS principles with a clear ideology for managing maintainable, scalable and cross-browser code  • With the concept of React JS Worked on usage metrics and end to end events tracing for analysis purpose.  • Working experience on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Opera, Firefox, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer.  • Resolved complex issues related to browser and network performance, cross-browser and legacy IE compatibility, client-side scaling, data modeling, usability and testability.  • Have worked on AWS to integrate the server side and client-side code.  • Experience in Restful web services to integrate between Server side to Client Side.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • UtilizedReact for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHubAPI through keywords.  Environment:HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, React JS, ES6, Node.js, Bootstrap, Visual studio Editor, GIT, JIRA. Gulp, Jasmine. Web UI Developer LT&T Systems Private Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created reusable components using JS and Angular JS. Wrote html code and integrated the same on the backend using JSP.  • Extensive Experience in using MVC (Model View Controller) architecture for developing applications using Angular JS.  • Used Angular JS for creating custom directives for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads, etc.  • Set up Angular JS framework for UI development and developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JSON, JavaScript, Node.js  • Implemented designs and enhancements using HTML, CSS, Angular JS and clean, modular JavaScript for web dashboard application.  • Proficient in manipulating properties and methods of document objects and modifying attributes and values via the DOM.  • Worked on Angular JS features like Two Way Binding, Custom Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services and Project Architecture.  • Server at the backend and the Front end was on HTML5 and Angular JS.  • Extensive use of commonly used libraries and tools including jQuery, Angular UI and Grunt.  • Built Single-Page Web Application(SPA) from scratch, leveraging Angular JS.  • Worked on unit testing for the Angular application using karma.    Environment: HTML, Angular JS, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Karma, Sublime Text, Brackets, Windows7, Bootstrap, PHP. Web Developer WEB IQRA - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Converted PSD mockups into pure hand-written HTML and CSS pages and Responsible for creating SEO friendly websites by using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • I have built several front-end projects using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery and design and implemented new user-facing features.  • Worked on front end pages that were developed in a professional manner using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Extensively used JavaScript, jQuery UI to provide UI functionality.  • Development of Form Validation techniques using JavaScript.  • Use field-tested best practices for packaging and deploying jQuery applications  • Implemented data binding and used async services to parseAPI through jQuery.  • Used Bootstrap framework and custom CSS3 to develop Responsive web pages.  • Handled all the client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using jQuery.  • Performed the functional and user acceptance test before final launch of the websites Managed website links to videos and interactive media through constants.  • Documented and maintained coding, commenting, validation and testing standards.  • Developed HTML Style Guides based on finalized templates.  • Developed secured web applications by using client scripting such as JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility, cross-browser platform testing and compatibility assurance  • Built efficient, testable, and reusable PHP module  • Utilized new software methodologies to be able to adapt to changes in requirements quickly.  • Extensively used jQuery, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Sublime Text, Windows7, Bootstrap, PHP. Skills JAVASCRIPT (5 years), BOOTSTRAP (4 years), AJAX (4 years), jQuery (4 years), DOM (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Technologies HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, DOM, ES6,  Frameworks AngularJS 1.x, Angular 2/4, ReactJS, Redux, Flux, NodeJS, D3.js, Webpack, Twitter Bootstrap, jQuery.  IDE's NetBeans, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++, Sublime-text, Brackets.  Operating System Windows, Mac, Linux.  Tools Grunt, Gulp, Jasmine, Mocha, Karma.  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall  Version Controls GIT, SVN