Angular 2 Web Developer Angular 2 <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Angular 2 Web Developer - MetLife. Greensboro, NC • 9 years of experience as UI developer in analysis, design and development of various enterprise and web based applications.  • Developed web pages using HTML4.0/5.0, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, ..Bootstrap, AngularJS, AngularJS 2, NodeJS, ReactJS, VueJS, BackboneJS, AJAX and JSON.  • Developed cross browser compatible pages using Modernizer to ensure proper working of HTML5 and CSS3 features.  • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  • Experience in writing PL/SQL queries, T-SQL, SQL Server 2005/2008, Oracle 9i/10g and MySQL 5.  • Skilled in working with software tools like Dreamweaver, Aptana Studio, Sublime Text, Notepad++ and Eclipse.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Profound Knowledge and good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation.  • Decent experience in AngularJS concepts like Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scopes, Controllers and Directives.  • Familiarity in writing Custom Directives in Angular 1.x.  • Used key features of AngularJS like two-way data binding, templates, services, controllers, scope, custom directives, filters, dependency injection to get, post and represent data from database to the web browser.  • Experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD) with involvement in several web application development projects.  • Experienced in designing table-less layouts using Web Standards.  • Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI Standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  • Used AJAX for implementing dynamic Webpages where the content was fetched via API calls and updated the DOM (JSON Parsing).  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  • Experience with Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira and Confluence.  • Ability to develop optimum and user-friendly web solutions and provide web, graphic and interactive programming.  • Dealing with NodeJS which is an open source, cross-platform runtime environment for server-side and networking applications.  • Experience in software configuration management using Rational Clearcase, CVS, SVN and PVCS.  • Experienced in developing web applications using MVC & MVVC Architecture.  • Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Angular 2 Web Developer MetLife - Raleigh, NC June 2017 to Present The project aimed at developing and supporting customer-centric, enterprise-level web applications, web services and utilities. The project involves in strengthening the core architecture to seamlessly deliver products to customers. Also, empowers the operations group with necessary applications to improve their efficiency in performing back office processes. The reporting suites that are developed provide users with extensive knowledge on business trend and marketing analysis.  Responsibilities:  • Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  • Designed and developed the login portal using framework AngularJS 2.0 along with HTML5, CSS3 and Type Script.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 2.  • Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Worked with diverse team of product owners and UX designers in fast paced environment, with quick iterative cycles.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as user performs application tasks.  • Used Gulp as the build task runner to build and package the application.  • Working Experience with Gherkins User Stories.  • Analyzed existing software ( web and mobile) for Accessibility issues and worked with designers to define and implemented solutions.  • Trained in TDD and ATDD Practices.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Written unit test scripts for controllers, filters and services using karma, Jasmine and PhantomJs.  • Expertise using WCAG 2.0 Technical Standards for Web Accessibility.  • Extensively used NPM and Bower to manage java script dependencies.  • Used Web pack to build Typescript modules.  • Extensively used Gulp and Bower to manage daily development.  • Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C standard.  • Experience in accessible analysis, design, and testing.  • Extensively used JAWS16 Screen Reader for Web Accessibility Testing.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.  • Updated the website from time to time for special Requirements.  • Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines; Performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during daily SCRUM meeting to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  • Extensively used Debugging JavaScript using Chrome developer Toolbar, Jetbrainswebstorm.  • Tested pages for cross-browser compatibility for Safari, Chrome, Firefox and IE by cross browser hacks and requirements.  Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap3, Typescript, Angular2, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Responsive Web Design, Gulp, Bower, NPM, JAWS16, Jasmine, Karma, IIS , Fiddler. Web/UI Developer 3M - Maplewood, MI September 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Software Development Life Cycle.  • Involved in Requirement gathering phase to gather the requirements from the business users and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements.  • Responsible for translating designs and concepts into highly usable and engaging web applications using a variety of technologies.  • Extensively worked on designing web pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax.  • Implemented User Friendly UI design with HTML, CSS and JavaScript for client-side validation and form submission functions and PHP for server-side scripting for web development.  • The back-end use NodeJS, Express, MongoDB and Mongoose to provide RESTful API.  • Assisting the onsite consultants to consume data from legacy system using Web-Services using REST.  • Achieved Angular JS Authentication for the application, and stored generated token so that token can be sent with each request to secure resources in Web API.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Worked with Bootstrap components of Angular-UI like carousel, collapse, dropdown, and tabs to develop dynamic responsive Web Application.  • Implemented Angular JS Http Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.  • Converted business requirements into technical requirements in preparation of High level design document and Functional specifications.  • Created both client and server-side validations.  • Design and implementation of new feature or software components for the front-end of a large Web application.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, jqValidtor, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, Angular1.x and JavaScript.  • Used MS Visio, Dreamweaver and Photoshop tools for web application development.  • Developed front-end UI pages and necessary backend JAVA classes to support data access and user authorization.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant based page layouts.  • Designed/modified Images/Banners as per the client requirement using Adobe Create SuiteCS5.  • Ensured Web Content follows W3C and Section 508 accessibility standards.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Experience with Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira and Confluence.  • Used Spring Boot, Spring Web Services for consuming JSON to secure the application.  • Used AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and involved in performance tuning the website.  • Used Firebug tool for debugging.  • Worked as QA tester and played an important role in assisting UAT team members to help them understand to test the system thoroughly and fixed the bugs reported by users.  • Interacted with User Experience teams to understand customer needs to design online user experiences, ensuring ease of navigation and simplicity of design.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, ANT, MAVEN, Bamboo, Jira, Protractor, Jenkins, Word Press, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, MongoDB, WAMP Stack, PHP, Spring Boot, Rest Web Services, MySQL & Agile Methodology. Front Web Developer Payment Vision - Gaithersburg, MD August 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked with HTML5, CSS3, JSP, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery and JQuery UI for developing user interface.  • Implemented Graphs and Charts with animation to represent survey data for MDE Analytics application.  • Implemented ADA compliance for the application.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with API's, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and JQuery.  • Having experience on accessing RESTful web services using D3.JS Framework.  • D3 is tested against Firefox, Chrome, Safari, Opera, IE9+, Android and iOS. Parts of D3 may work in older browsers, as the core D3 library has minimal requirements.  • D3JS is used to design executive dashboard, feed viewer, portal, ticket application, responsive design UI.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Performed Unit Testing and code coverage with Karma and Jasmine.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS3 and appropriate HTML5 tags as per W3C standards.  • Created optimized graphic websites and application interfaces using HTML5, CSS3 and JQuery UI framework.  • Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Good knowledge of debugging JavaScript and HTML code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome JavaScript debugger.  • Developed Architectural Design Documents and Block Diagrams.  • Participated in the research of new technologies like JQUERY-Mobile for few potential mobile app development efforts.  Environment: HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JQuery mobile, JSON, XML, Usability Testing, YUI Library, Design Patterns, Eclipse, ASP.Net & Agile Methodology. Java Developer Allscripts - Raleigh, NC February 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Involved in extensive HTML coding.  • Responsible for developing the pages using JQUERY, AJAX, and JSON to parse on data on the frontend on the fly.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.    • Utilized various JQUERY plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Implemented chained select plugin for JQuery with JSON processing and callback feature, chain multiple selects with ease.  • Implemented the online application by using Core Java (OOPS), JDBC, JSP, Servlets & REST Web Services.  • Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using JavaScript.  • Identified the way to increase the Search Engine Optimization (SEO) and social media friendly.  • Guided team into developing an effective organic SEO campaign and key phrase selection strategy.  • Worked with the QA team to fix the bugs, test the load, and performance checking.  • Responsible to track different versions of files using VSS.  Environment: HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Core Java (OOPS), JDBC, JSP, Servlets, REST Web Services, AJAX, JSON, UNIX, Struts MVC, SVN, Eclipse, Microsoft FrontPage & Adobe Photoshop CS3. Java Developer Comsoft, CA May 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Responsible in development of multi-tier web application environment.  • Designed front end screens using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Responsible for authorizing of website functionality with HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Updated templates and produced additional functional components using JQuery.  • Utilized various JavaScript and JS libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Worked with Object Oriented programming concepts such as inheritance.  • Developed various modules present in the portal such as Admin, User and Job Folder.  • Used JQuery to make HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages.  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, IE developer toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, AJAX and Eclipse. Java Developer ITC infotech - Albany, NY October 2009 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  • Responsible in designing architecture using J2EE MVC framework.  • Developed interfaces using HTML, JSP pages and Struts -Presentation View.  • Developed application by using Struts, Servlets and JSP's as per client request, Custom tags have been developed to reuse it in other modules.  • Developed Ant script to automate the process of build and deployment.  • Used SOAP Web Service and deployed applications on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Extensively configured the build files to different Environments.  • Developed Session Beans which encapsulates the workflow logic.  • Used Entity Beans to persist the data into database and JMS to establish message communication.  • Used SVN for the concurrent development in the team and for code repository.  • Involved in regression testing, evaluating the response times, and resolving connection pooling issues.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Java, Struts, MVC Framework, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, Eclipse and Tortoise SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVASCRIPT (8 years), ECLIPSE (6 years), JAVA (6 years), jQuery (8 years), AJAX (7 years), PHP, Angular, Wordpress, C#, NET, Drupal, HTML, HTML5, Front End, Bootstrap Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages and frameworks-C, C++, JAVA, J2EE, JSP, JMS, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Stripes & Flex Builder 2.0/3.0.  Web Technologies-HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, DHTML, XSLT, AJAX & JSON.  Developer Tools-Eclipse, Spring Suite, IntelliJ Idea, Jira, Sublime text, YUI, Notepad++, SVN, CVS, GIT, Stash, Toad & XML Spy.  Frameworks-AngularJS, AngularJS 2, ReactJS, NodeJS, VueJS, DOJO, ExtJS & BackboneJS.  Application Server-Apache Tomcat, Oracle WebLogic Server, IIS 7.0 & JBoss.  Databases-MS SQL, MySQL, PL/SQL and Oracle.  Operating Systems-Windows XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X, Linux and Unix.