Lead WordPress Developer Lead WordPress <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Gaithersburg, MD Creating, upgrading and maintaining websites for clients with the latest technologies using a foundation in WordPress, JavaScript, jQuery, SASS, PHP, HTML and CSS. Excellent communicator who thrives in a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead WordPress Developer Marriott International, Inc. - Bethesda, MD Present Manage and maintain 25+ Wordpress websites.  Building new functionality and maintenance of code.  Working in Multi-language sites up to 14 different languages.  Deployment of sites using WP engine  Working with project managers and designers on projects.  Creating scalable multi sites for global use.  Creating Wordpress standards for company use.  Keeping sites updated with the latest plugins and core updates to ensure security and functionality are up to date  Creating Custom Marriott Centered Theme.  Trouble Shooting Issues on internal and externally built sites.  Creating WordPress Migration Processes for daily site functionality  Monitoring and improving site load speed, page optimization and image management through New Relic and WP-Engines page performance tool.  Managing security updates and implementation of hot-fixes for vulnerabilities.  Lead tech interviews and helped in assessment of possible tech leads. Website and Database Consultant Prince George’s Arts and Humanities Council - Prince George's County, MD January 2017 to January 2019 Lead role in managing and maintaining PGHAC website  Creating emails for distribution using Constant Contact  Modified website for a cleaner User Experience   Developing a new Wordpress website for a more modern look and increased functionality  Implemented google analytics for user tracking and to understand what pages are visitors going to most Web Developer Merrick-Towle - Beltsville, MD August 2016 to October 2017 40hrs/week  Maintained and updated WordPress sites  Use SQL to make databases for WordPress sites  Built fully responsive landing pages using HTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript and JQuery  Strong familiarity with PHP and advanced custom fields  Experience adding in google analytics tracking codes and Yoast SEO optimizations  Used Photoshop to take apart PSD files for website use  Constructed Emails for clients using Mailchimps services and templates  Knowledge and implementation of 508 web compliant code use  Updated Wordpress Plugins daily  Used google map API to create location maps and poi maps for WordPress websites Junior Frontend Developer Columbia, MD February 2016 to August 2016 Used frame work React.js to remodel company website from JQUERY  Used Webpack to bundle modules  Some experience with D3 data map visualizations Apprentice Developer Vector Software Inc - College Park, MD June 2015 to October 2015 Built and managed websites using WordPress technology  Used Ruby and JavaScript to build a timer web application, and various web-based tools for the client websites  Enhanced websites to match company layouts with HTML and CSS Fitness Specialist Elevation Corporate Health - Silver Spring, MD April 2013 to September 2015 Scheduled and facilitated personal sessions with multiple clients per week  Devised each client with personal training programs that were best suited to their goals and health situation  Started and currently running an adult Soccer League Wellness Program which improves cardiovascular level and overall morale for members  Marketing of flyers, website updates and conferences to promote health/fitness and nutritional programs  Created unique and customized educational seminars, monthly newsletters, and member activities  Personal Training Program was recognized for new and innovative idea (create your own group exercise class)  Updated noaafitness.net website through a CMS similar to WordPress Education General Assembly School - Washington, DC October 2015 to January 2016 Bach in Kinesiology Frostburg State University - Frostburg, MD August 2007 to May 2012 Skills AJAX (Less than 1 year), Authentication (Less than 1 year), business plan (Less than 1 year), Marketing (2 years), Photoshop (1 year), PHP (2 years), Wordpress (2 years), CSS (2 years), JQuery (2 years), SASS (2 years), html, mysql, javascript, Word Press, HTML5, Website, CSS3 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skills:  Object Oriented Programming / Object Prototypes, RESTful Routes, AJAX, Passport Authentication, CRUD applications, Photoshop, Mailchimp, Social Media Marketing (Facebook)    Frostburg State University: Frostburg, MD. May, 2012  Bachelor of Science in Exercise and Sports Science  Minor in Marketing - Worked in a group setting with classmates to create an innovative product, business plan, and marketing plan.