Service-Now Developer Service-Now <span class="hl">Developer</span> Service-Now Developer - FAA/Leidos Corp Washington, DC ? Over all 8+ years of professional IT experience and 4+ years of experience in Service-Now platform as both Developer and Administrator.  ? Hands-on experience in technical implementation of Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management and Service Catalog.  ? Experience in implementing end-to-end Service Catalog.  ? Designed and configured different Workflows for various Service Catalog items.  ? Hands on experience developing Content Management System (CMS) in ServiceNow.  ? Use the Discovery Schedule module to run Discovery on a regular, reoccurring basis, or even on demand.  ? Implementing system security by using Access Control Lists (ACL).  ? Provides daily support of Service Management Platform (ServiceNow), including Scripting, Configuration, Customization, Integrations, Administration ServiceNow processes (User management/Group management), Functions, Service Catalog and Workflow.  ? Excellent experience in Jelly Script to customize ServiceNow Instance.  ? Experience in generating different kinds of scheduled Reports and marking them as Gauges.  ? Experience in creating Update Sets to migrate group of customizations from one instance to another instance.  ? Configuring MID Server to import data from external sources.  ? Enhancing the existing LDAP and Single Sign-On (SSO) integration and modified business rules.  ? Experience in integrating ServiceNow with Web services (SOAP and REST).  ? Experience in maintaining CMBD and populating it with configuration items (CI).  ? Experience of various phases of SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Design, Code Construction and Test.  ? Functional knowledge and implementation experience of ITSM frameworks.  ? Experience in customizing an instance, importing users and Groups using LDAP.  ? Have Experience on Gilder Application Program, Dictionary Override and gauges.  ? Formidable team player, ability to work independently and in a team as well, ability to adapt to a rapidly changing environment, commitment towards learning, Possess excellent communication, project management, documentation, interpersonal skills.  ? Very good exposure towards ITOM and ITSM modules, Expertise in implementing agentless work in the enterprise using the ServiceNow Instance.  ? Migrated ServiceNow environment from Jakarta to Kingston. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Service-Now Developer FAA/Leidos Corp - Washington, DC April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident, Change, Problem, Knowledge, Service Catalog, CMDB in Service-Now.  ? Having knowledge on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Project Management Principles and providing end-to-end ITSM, ITOM solutions using Service Now  ? Develop / Configure workflows, forms, and underlying logic using SCRUM / Agile methodologies  ? Worked on loading the data into Service-Now using import sets.  ? Experience in writing Test steps using Automated Testing Framework.  ? Involved in migration between various Service-Now instances using Update Sets.  ? Loaded assets into SNOW from third party system using Web Services and Import Sets.  ? Involved in customizing the forms for the Incident, Change and Problem Management ITIL processes.  ? Involved in providing production support for service catalog, incident, problem, change, release, deployment, and task and knowledge management modules in ServiceNow platform.  ? Access Automation using REST Integration and Scripted Web Services.  ? Responsible for designing, analyzing, and developing business application which involved customization and work flow administration, data imports, custom scripting using java script.  ? Created custom tables, based on business needs.  ? Defined and configured DISCOVERY schedules and Worked on DISCOVERY and set up mid servers and check for the connectivity.  ? Involved in integrating custom built application Kinetic Service Request Console (SRC) with ServiceNow forms.  ? Configured ITSM 7.6(Incident, Problem, Change and Asset Management), AIE, LDAP, Kinetic Survey.  ? Worked on Email Notification, Reports and Database views.  ? Checking MID server health and monitoring ECC queue.  ? The objectives of PPM are to determine the optimal resource mix for delivery and to schedule activities to best achieve an organization's operational and financial goals.  ? Prioritize the right projects and programs PPM can guide decision-makers to strategically prioritize, plan, and control enterprise portfolios.  ? Responsible for creating various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management, Problem Management, Service Requests and SLA's.  ? During development, worked with JavaScript, XML to create front-end and back-end components such as forms, buttons, views, pages, business rules and workflows.  ? Worked on integrating ServiceNow with external SOAP and REST based web services.  ? Customized Helsinki Service Portal and powered those using Angular JS and Jelly Scripting.  ? Development of Service catalog - catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  ? Excellent knowledge on code migration between various ServiceNow environments using Update Sets.  ? Responsible for the acceptance, identification, storage, and withdrawal of all supported CIs.  ? Responsible for ensuring that all the CIs are registered, and these records are correct and up to date.  ? Worked on creating users, roles, groups and Configured LDAP Server and LDAP Listener for updating the user and group table record.  ? Created/Update Sets to migrate customizations from Development instance to Test, UAT and Production Instances.  ? Integrated Microsoft SCCM with Service Now for pulling the entire configuration item into Service Now.  ? Played a significant role in developing policies and processes related all areas of the software asset lifecycle and defined strategies for managing and optimizing software asset usage.  ? Creating custom UI pages using Jelly scripting in ServiceNow.  ? Creating multiple control conditional expressions using jelly scripting and other jelly tags. Service-Now Developer UBS - Chicago, IL January 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Expertise on implementing end-to-end Incident Management, Configuration & Asset Management, Change Management, Release Management, Service Catalog Management.  ? Used the development tools provided in Widget Editor to write AngularJS, CSS, and JavaScript to power a portal.  ? Built catalog items from scratch along with advances customizations as per the complex requirements.  ? Configured and executed client's scripts/UI policies.  ? Integrating Service catalog module with third party application tools using Web Services and fixing the issues which come up while the tools are getting interacted.  ? Expertise on creation of workflows for Service Catalog items in ServiceNow.  ? Responsible for the ServiceNow tool administration module and creating new Users, Groups, Roles, IT Services, Application, Business Services, Routing rules and Blackout Freeze rules.  ? Created many scripts which include Business rules for server-side scripting.  ? Worked extensively on LDAP integrations. Very good understanding of Integration with various network protocols.  ? Good knowledge on Single Sign on and event-based integrations.  ? Configured and maintained BMC Remedy Foundation Data  ? Integrated BMC Remedy with External systems using web services.  ? Perform ServiceNow implementation tasks including configuration, integration, custom programming.  ? Setup MID Server used by DISCOVERY and troubleshooting problems with the tool configurations.  ? To set up Configuration Management and defining the CI classes and their relationships.  ? Used data Sources & web integrations for setting up the configuration database in ServiceNow.  ? Created complex transform scripts in transforming the data into the SNOW database.  ? Excellent knowledge on setting up the Change Management along with advanced customizations for Risk Assessment Calculator on a script includes level.  ? Worked on integrating ServiceNow with external SOAP web services.  ? Played a significant role in developing policies and processes related all areas of the software asset lifecycle and defined strategies for managing and optimizing software asset usage.  ? Implemented Single Sign On (SSO) using SAML 2.0  ? Configuring SLA's and Reports. Defining the process for each service request.  ? Creating scheduled jobs/tasks, monitoring ticket queues, and generating reports/ statistics. Working knowledge of Knowledge base articles, incidents, CMDB and dictionaries.  ? Creating catalogue items, workflows, inbound emails actions and update sets for service requests.  ? Check the change management document and verify the changes. Assist in Release Management during product and patch releases.  ? Provide training sessions on ticketing tools, reporting and data entry. Developed UI Actions, script includes and Business rules for overall platform.  ? Following up with clients, interacting with end users on process requests, user training etc. Service-Now Developer Docusign and Kenexa - Albany, NY November 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Indulged in update set tracking and export/import both in FUJI and Eureka versions.  ? Working in a team of 4 to integrate service now with Docusign and Kenexa  ? Workflow management - Created Workflows, Sub flows and Tables both on Fuji and Eureka.  ? Managed inbound and outbound notifications in Fuji and Eureka.  ? Managing Email notifications through Tables and Workflows.  ? Advanced Schedule jobs and Business rule creation.  ? Created Catalog Requests and record producers.  ? Created new Business Rules/Script Includes/Client catalog script/Client Script.  ? Created and managed SLA definitions for different Service Groups  ? Worked on the Dynamic content page for the overall project. Content Management in this case the primary focus was on service now (Fuji and Eureka).  ? Created Business rules supporting various email, notifications and also tables.  ? Unit testing for all the use cases and Functional requirements put forward for the project in Fuji and Eureka.  ? Exporting and Importing tables, workflows, update sets data from one instance to the other.  ? Created roles, views and user groups pertaining to the use cases. ( Fuji and Eureka)  ? Worked on establishing Links to knowledge based articles on Fuji and Eureka.  ? Wrote Jelly Scripts for all the notifications, Content Management and also business rules. (Fuji and Eureka) Service-Now Developer Lowes - Mooresville, NC February 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in gathering business requirements and analyzing the project scope, for ServiceNow development and administration.  ? Implementation of Problem Management, Incident Management, Change Management, Service Catalog Management and Email Notifications.  ? Application Support for Incident Management, Problem Management and Service Catalog. Involved in developing workflows. Reviewed Business Rules and recommended solutions for implementation.  ? Involved in design and development of ServiceNow forms and views. Developed Scripts to invoke existing Script Include. Used Glide Scripting to develop Business rules.  ? Created several Client Scripts, UI policies, and UI Pages using JavaScript. Used Notifications to communicate to group of users. Developed Views, Approval and Assignment Rule Development.  ? Development of SLA's for the organizations. Implementation of ACL's. Customized Service Catalog Management.  ? Performed code migration using update sets. Used Web Services, Email Integration to integrate applications and data sources. Gathered requirements for Incident, Problem and Change Management applications in ServiceNow.  ? Creation of Custom Related List, Dictionary fields.  ? Gathered business requirements from the customers, stakeholders, end-users.  ? Involved in weekly scrum meetings.  ? Worked on integrating ServiceNow with external SOAP and REST based web services.  ? Involved in redesigning the workflows using ServiceNow workflow editor also involved in reconciliation of complicated workflows to simpler form.  ? Created Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Flowcharts for the Optimization Module using MS Visio.  ? Used ACL's for controlling the security mechanism in ServiceNow.  ? Developed and configured Business Rules Script Includes, UI Policies, UI Actions, Catalog Client Scripts and Client Scripts, Scheduled Jobs, Wizard panels and Wizard Clients scripts, Content item etc.  ? Developed and maintained APIs and data integration processes between ServiceNow and other services. Web Developer Suresoft Technologies Pvt Ltd October 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Designed web application layout and form using HTML, CSS, and jQuery.  ? Handled all the client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JavaScript.  ? Developed front-end screens with mHTML, mDHTML, mCSS, JavaScript's and JSP's.  ? Designed Java Server Pages required for the application.  ? Developed JSPs and Servlets to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side.  ? Used jQuery to develop a modular approach that allows the creation of powerful and dynamic web pages and web applications.  ? Worked and created employee login id's email pages by using HTML, CSS and AngularJs.  ? Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  ? Used XML/XSLT for web-based Reports and used JDBC API to access database.  ? Developed Ant builds script and ant task classes to clean, compile, copy, run, doc, deploy, jar, war, and ear files.  ? Participated in day-to-day meeting, status meeting, strong reporting and effective communication with project manager and developers.  ? Experience in developing Responsive web pages quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, JSON, AJAX and Bootstrap.  ? Developed web pages cross browser compatible.  ? Troubleshooting existing code and debugging using Firebug and Chrome Developer Tools.  ? Worked on Object Oriented Architecture Design, Development and Implementation, Troubleshooting and Debugging, Testing of Software Applications.  ? Worked with HP Quality Center for bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Profound Knowledge in Document Object Model (DOM).  ? Experience with the design and development of single-page web applications  ? Implemented validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  ? Familiar with concepts of Data-Binding and Dependency Injection in Angular JS.  ? Experience developing and/or support global, large scale business applications.  ? Used D3.js C3.js, SVG data visualization and Charting applications.  ? Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  ? Knowledge in working with data base MySQL.  ? Experience with a Version Control Software. (Git and TFS).  ? Experience through all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Analyzed and fixed defects for various modules in the QA stages.  ? Working knowledge of graphic design and handling various kinds of media using Photoshop.  ? Experience in Integration Testing, Regression Testing.  ? Dedicated team player, quick learner, self-starter, excellent analytical, design and problem solving skills.  ? Experience with test driven development.  ? Knowledge and experience with agile development practices. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (2 years), Apache (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap. (2 years), C (Less than 1 year), CSS (3 years), Database (5 years), DB2 (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), HTML (2 years), ITIL (2 years), java (4 years), java script. (7 years), MySQL. (2 years), Oracle (Less than 1 year), Oracle 10g (Less than 1 year), PL/SQL (Less than 1 year), scripting (5 years), SDLC (4 years), SQL (Less than 1 year), XML (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License