AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - Franklin Templeton San Mateo, CA • Around 7+ years of experience in IT industry with all periods of Analysis, Design, Development, testing, and documentation of Web Based Applications utilizing Java, J2EE, Database Management systems and Web Content Management.  • Three plus Years of strong Web Content Management experience with Adobe AEM/ CQ5, Adobe Experience Manager 5.6, Adobe Experience Manager 6.0, AEM 6.1, AEM 6.3 implementing 2+ full cycle AEM projects.  • Working knowledge of common Software Design Patterns and AEM Building Blocks including Templates, Components, Widgets, Bundles, Workflows and Dialogs  • Experienced in developing CMS based applications using Adobe CQ/AEM Apache Sling and OSGI.  • Experienced in deploying dynamic libraries and API packages into OSGI.  • Proficient in Adobe AEM foundation concepts, including the CRX repository, the AEM  platform, the use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix.  • Expertise with setup and development of GUI using CQ5 and ExtJs.  • Good understanding of integration patterns and content-centric application development patterns using Adobe Enterprise Manager.  • Worked with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  • Experience working with digital technologies and Adobe Marketing Cloud, Adobe AEM, Adobe Campaign, Adobe Target and Adobe Analytics.  • Extensive web design skills and work experience in developing web page applications covering front-end technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML, Ajax, AngularJS and bootstrap.  • Worked with Agile Methodology (Scrum) and Web Services using Service Oriented Architecture  • Excellent Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation which also includes expertise in OOA, OOD, Distributed Application Development and OOPs  • Good understanding of J2EE Security framework. Having experience in configuration of SSL on WebLogic server.  • Very good implementation knowledge and hands on SOAP Web services (JAX-WS) and RESTful Web services (JAX-RS).  • Efficient in working with repositories and experience in using GIT and SVN for source code version control.  • Strong Understanding Object oriented analysis and design and Responsive web application development  • Strong experience in using various IDE'S like Eclipse, NetBeans, Edit Plus, Fiddle, Tatastrom, Sublime text, Notepad++, Microsoft Visual, Astana studio and Webstore.  • Experienced in developing web applications with various open source frameworks: JSF, Spring Framework (MVC) 2.5, 3.0, Jakarta Struts Framework2.0, Custom Tag Libraries using persistence frameworks, Hibernate ORM  • Skillful knowledge on Agile process methodology, and Waterfall Methodology.  • Used JIRA and Bugzilla for bug tracking.  • Utilized GIT as version control to restore assets to previous versions later and integrated with Jenkins for continuous integration. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AEM Developer Franklin Templeton - San Mateo, CA May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed, Developed, Implemented and configured Web Content Management solutions using Adobe AEM 6.1.  • Developed Components and Templates using Adobe AEM 6.1 touch UI for supporting the different Webpages.  • Used Adobe Dynamic Tag Management (DTM) and integration of AEM with Adobe Analytics and Adobe Target.  • Experience in developing application on OSGI, Apache Sling and Apache Felix Frameworks.  • Worked with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  • Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, jquery and Angular JS.  • Efficiently used Apache Sling/JCR for Content Resolution and handling dynamic data.  • Worked on component development technology Sightly(HTL)  • Converted JSP Components into slightly(HTL).  • Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for AEM application in authoring environment.  • Developed workflow components related to digital assets upload workflow as per the client requirements.  • Have been using DAM Assets, Package Manager, Package Share, Replication and other tools provided by CQ and have in-depth knowledge of using all the above.  • Worked on RESTful web services to know the response when making service calls while fixing the issues.  • Worked on Sling Servlets and OSGI Services to pull data from remote web-app services and write custom business logic to maintain Content Repository Extreme (CRX)  • Designed and develop user interface using Bootstrap, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript etc.  • Worked on HTML, JavaScript and JQuery for fixing the mobile application issues.  • Developed various templates for Consortium to be reused by all the members for individual websites.  • Worked on developing services in Events that gives JSON output for the event status and time.  • Utilized GIT as version control to restore assets to previous versions later and integrated with Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Developed MS SQL database  • Used JSTL tag library for processing attributes on the web page.  • Experience with Agile process methodology and Scrum methodology.  • Worked in creating author/publisher clusters with dispatchers.  • Used JIRA as ticketing tool.    Environment: Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets), JSON, spring, Eclipse, CRX, J-Query, RESTful webservices , Sightly, Github, CRXDE, JCR 2.0, OSGi (Apache Felix) , AEM 6.1, Apache Sling, Html, CSS, Ajax, Angular JS, JavaScript. AEM Developer GTkonnect - Irvine, CA March 2016 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analyzing requirements and implementing solutions to build the tool in AEM.  • Developed custom components, templates, dialogs and widgets in AEM 6.0.  • Developed custom page content components, page templates, dialogs for web pages using Sightly.  • Followed Agile/Scrum methodology for development of each sprint and attending daily scrum meetings.  • Involved in testing the templates and components, making sure that the functional requirements are matching.  • Develop Sling Servlets, Services and Java Utils classes housed in bundles using Eclipse IDE and Apache Maven Build Integration.  • Extensive use of CQ Tag Libraries in the components  • Users can create new CQ pages using the scaffold.  • Have a complete understanding of CRX repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL  Queries and XPath.  • Implemented the business layer by using Hibernate with Spring DAO and developed mapping files and POJO java classes using ORM tool.  • Used the Query Builder API or Page Manager API to query AEM content depending upon the requirement and usage.  • Leveraged out-of-box asset search and indexed custom metadata properties. Designed and developed custom assets search result page for list view. Embedded many features like exporting search results in excel.  • Worked with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  • Designed, coded and configured server side J2EE components like JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, XML.  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases and suits using Eclipse IDE  • Develop custom components that display contents from REST web service call using AJAX POST and JSON Responses.  • Used Bootstrap CSS framework that helps in designing web applications  • Developed GUI using HTML5 and Java Script.  • Used GIT as version control to restore assets to previous versions later and integrated with Jenkins for continuous integration and builds  Environment: Java, JDK 1.7, AEM 6.0, Apache sling, Apache Felix, JCR, Hibernate, Web services, HTML, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, JavaScript, Angular JS, CSS, Maven, Apache, dispatcher and Eclipse. AEM developer Eaton Corporation - Long Branch, NJ March 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured version 5.6 of Adobe Web Content Management System and Apache Felix Admin Console.  • Design and development of templates, components widgets, CQ5 bundle  • Managed OSGi configuration within the CRX repository  • Used Maven to build and deploy jar files  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and project tracking.  • Develop, implement and configure web content management solutions using AEM (Adobe CQ) and technologies such as Java, HTML/DHTML, XML, JavaScript, and web services.  • Worked on Multisite Manager (MSM) to get same structure and content on all the versions of the website.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Worked on design for integration with web services like RESTful and SOAP based web services  • Managed the daily progress via JIRA and confluence using Agile.  • Implemented components to utilize services through sling service calls and Jsp tags.  • Monitoring log files and communicating with AEM Developers.  • Working knowledge on Importing, Exporting CQ Packages & Bundles  • Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system  Environment: Java JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Ajax, JQuery, AEM 5.6 (WCM), Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, Jackrabbit Java/ Web Developer RetailSols - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Software Development lifecycle, followed the Agile Development Model.  • Analyzed and gathered business requirements from clients for application development.  • Building state of the art Java/J2EE for business-critical web based applications, currently working on ECRA - Electronic trading of Controls and Risk Assessment which evaluates the risk analysis for various internal banking applications.  • Involved in deriving at class diagrams and sequence diagrams during the design phase of the project using UML, involved in discussions with the client to discuss and understand various components of the requirement and to implement the same  • Implemented JSP corresponding to the controller where in the data was propagated into it from the model and view object from the controller Designed and Implemented MVC architecture using Spring Framework, which involved writing Action Classes/Forms/Custom Tag Libraries &JSP pages.  • Developing presentation layer with JSPs, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Spring Form tags, JSTL Tags etc.  • The entire application was developed in J2EE using an MVC based architecture with help of Apache Struts 1.3.8.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Created XML unit test cases for testing the Web Services functions.  • Integrated Hibernate with Spring ORM for database mapping  • Involved in Writing service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle  • Hands on experience on Software Configuration Management (SCM) tools such as SVN, CVS  • Developed and Deployed the Application on Eclipse IDE and Tomcat Application and Web Servers.  • Created unit test packages using JUnit.  • Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the angular JS front-end. Worked on Restful web services, which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON, few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents.  • Worked with Quality Assurance team in tracking and fixing bugs.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP 2.5, JUNIT, Spring 2.5.6/3.0, Spring ORM Spring Form tags JSTL, Hibernate 3.0, Maven, Apache, Eclipse IDE, Ajax, SOAP, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON Web developer Innovative Web Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing and maintaining internal and external facing Web Applications.  • Follow architecture principles and development standards set by the group to convey brilliant UI code that will keep running over different programs with superior.  • Integrate with middleware platform by consuming RESTful services utilizing JSON.  • Broadly had required to use HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, jQuery and traditional JavaScript.  • Built up all the portal applications in Backbone.js, Node.js and jQuery to accomplish JavaScript MVC standards.  • Engaged with Designing database and executing the database base objects utilizing MySQL.  • Advanced the site, checked error logs, and recognized and settled potential issues.  • Made new UIs and enhanced existing ones.  • Composed SQL Queries to collaborate with Oracle database.  • Worked with production team to implement UI and make improvements to upgrade client encounter.  • Troubleshoot style issues, program similarity issues.  • Created classes to empower make diverse functionalities.  • Created CSS classes to GUI site page controls and structures.  • Take an interest in implementing, testing and conveying UI application utilizing agile methodologies.  Environment: Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery UI, SASS, CSS3, HTML, JSP, SASS, JSON, Visual Studio Code. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills jQuery (6 years), JSP (6 years), HTML (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), CSS (6 years), Linux, XML, SQL, SQL Server Additional Information Technical Skills    Content Management Technologies AEM5.6, AEM 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, CQ5 DAM, Adobe CQ5 APIs  Programming Language Java, J2EE, C, SQL  IDE NetBeans, Eclipse, and CRXDE  Web Application Frameworks Hibernate, Apache Sling, Apache Felix  Application Servers Tomcat 7, WebLogic,IBM Web sphere application server, Apache Felix, Apache Sling, WebSphere Portal Server, log4j.  Web technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/ CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, DHTML, XHTML, JQuery, Angular Js, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Ajax, REST, API, SOAP  Defect Tracking Tool JIRA, Bugzilla.  Databases SQL Server, MYSQL, DB2  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Jenkins  Version Control System Git, SVN.