Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - GGK Technologies ? Passionate Software developer with experience of 5 years 5 months in IT and services industry  ? Skilled in Python, Django, Docker, AWS, Nginx, Elasticsearch, Microservices, RabbitMQ, Celery, .NET,  ASP.NET, MVC and MSSQL  ? Microsoft Certification: 70-480  ? Good understanding of web application security, common vulnerabilities and their prevention  ? Ability to grasp new technical concepts quickly and utilize them in an efficient manner  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills with abilities in resolving complex software issues Work Experience Full Stack Developer GGK Technologies September 2017 to Present Technologies used: Python, Django, VueJS, Docker, Celery, RabbitMQ, ElasticSearch, Docker Swarm,  Nginx  ? Led the development handling the client requirements, planning the changes and make it done.  ? Led the design of a generic drag-n-drop form builder with ElasticSearch backend  ? Implemented web app generic drag-n-drop form builder with ElasticSearch backend and Django  ? Implemented security configurations in Nginx  ? Enabled easy scaling, testing & deployment of the microservices by creating optimized docker images  ? Designed and implemented Global Item Based Permissions in BRG Drive.  ? Identified and fixed the timeout errors with PostgreSQL and RabbitMQ in consumers and celery tasks.  ? Handled services of AWS for development and testing  ? Managing development team from more than an year. Active interaction with client, Sprint planning and work delegation by providing designs. Full Stack Developer GGK Technologies November 2016 to August 2017 Technologies used: Python, Django, MongoDB, Bootstrap, JQuery, Docker, Bash, Celery, RabbitMQ  ? Led the design and development of various modules from the scratch in Drive platform.  ? Implemented various modules from scratch using Django web and RabbitMQ following Microservices  ? Refactored code of existing modules called Insights and Viz in Drive platform  ? Integrated GGK's browser based business intelligence product called "Explora-BI" in Drive platform  handling authentication and authorization of both platforms.  ? Ported modules 'Link' and 'Realtime staffing' from PHP based platform to Drive platform  ? Proposed design for generic workflows  ? Optimized the upload process by offloading the post upload processing to Celery tasks  ? Reduced defects in production by implementing test driven development and code review workflows Full Stack Developer GGK Technologies April 2016 to October 2016 Technologies used: AngularJS, C#, ASP.NET MVC, WebAPI, LINQ, Entity Framework., Angular JS  ? Involved in requirements gathering and design for GGK's product named "CRUX".  ? Implemented integration between Membership system and billing system with WebAPIs  ? Implemented display of tables in Admin pages for various types of data using UI Grids in Angular JS  ? Implemented application submission in Operational User Portal using Angular JS and WebAPI.  ? Implemented Address standardization across various systems in CRUX using Google APIs.  ? Made a minimal payment system in billing module with types of payment records. Full Stack Web Developer GGK Technologies January 2016 to March 2016 Technologies used: SQL Server Agent, MS SQL, SSIS, Angular JS, WEBAPI, Windows service  ? Created SSIS package and maintained ETL of Employee data from HR system to ePAS system  ? Created many Stored Procedures for fetching data and fed them to Web based interface using WebAPI and Angular JS  ? Developed jobs for daily operations and notifications using SQL server agent and Windows services  using Quartz schedular. Software Engineer BackeDeveloper July 2015 to December 2015 Retail Renewal System - BCBS    ? Technologies used: Dotnet, ASP.Net MVC, MS SQL, SSIS  ? Handled many db schema changes as per the regular business changes in Insurance Renewal system  ? Implemented file loading from FTP, processing and storing in DB  ? Written many Stored procedures on various business conditions and converted the results into files after further processing of data, finally placed in FTPs of other vendors.  ? Very close interaction with clients in every stage of application, from requirements gathering to the production Full Stack Web Developer GGK Technologies January 2014 to June 2015 Technologies used: Dotnet, ASP.Net Webforms, MVC, MS SQL, WebServices, HTML5, CSS3, Jquery,  Knockout JS  ? Developed Web user interfaces using Webforms, MVC, Jquery and Knockout JS  ? Worked on many user interfaces in Online application and renewal systems of Health Insurance.  ? Handled many db schema changes as per the regular business changes in Insurance Renewal system  ? Worked on investigations of issues reported by end users in production, find out the root cause and fixing them.  ? Written many Stored procedures on various business conditions Education B.Tech. in Electronics and Communication SR Engineering College 2009 to 2013 Additional Information Skills    Python RabbitMQ JavaScript AWS C#-Dotnet MS SQL  Django Microservices jQuery Bash ASP.NET SSIS  Docker Nginx Bootstrap Git MVC ElasticSearch  Celery PostgreSQL VueJS TFS RESTful API Linux