Drupal/PHP Developer Drupal/PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> Drupal/PHP Developer Canton, CT • Drupal/PHP Developer with 7+ years of experience as a Web developer over Drupal (V6, V7, V8), HTML, WordPress, PHP, Java  • Good experience on Drupal (v8).  • Experience in CSS designing of webpages on Drupal.  • Hands on experience in framework CodeIgniter.  • Good Knowledge in converting HTML designs to Drupal themes and templates.  • Good working knowledge on CMS (content management systems) like Drupal, Word Press.  • Experienced in implementing Web 2.0 technology like AJAX and advanced DOM manipulation with JavaScript and Search Engine Optimization (SEO).  • Good Experience in client-side scripting - JavaScript.  • Good at JavaScript libraries like jQuery and AJAX.  • Experience with site/data migrations, advanced site-building experience including deep familiarity with Drupal modules such as CTools, Views, and Panels.  • Good working experience on Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Dreamweaver.  • A good team player with creative and methodical approach in problem solving and good attitude and be self-discipline.  • Experience working with PHP frameworks symphony, cakePHP, Zend  • Good understanding on Drupal hooks system for modifying contributed modules.  • Experience in testing and modifying Drupal themes and style-sheets to ensure consistent display latest versions of IE, Chrome, Firefox, and Safari.  • Excellent experience in developing web2.0 applications in LAMP and WAMP.  • Worked on JIRA for Agile software development process.  • Professional understanding of System development life cycle (SDLC), as well as various phases such as Analysis/Design, Development and Testing.  • Content Management Tools such as Drupal7 and Drupal8.  • Worked on various projects and executed Performance Tuning and Optimization.  • Excellent communication, analytical and inter-personal skills.  • Successfully led team to deliver technical assignment.  • Good experience in requirement gathering and analyzing.  • Experience in creating Design, Deployment Guide and User Manual documentations.  • Strong troubleshooting, logical and analytical skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Drupal/PHP Developer Ogilvy common health worldwide - Jersey City, NJ March 2017 to Present Description: Cabozantinib, sold under the brand-name Cabometyx and Cometriq, is a medication used to treat medullary thyroid cancer and a second line treatment for renal cell carcinoma among others. It is a small molecule inhibitor of the tyrosine kinases c-Met and VEGFR2, and also inhibits AXL and RET. It was discovered and developed by Exelixis Inc. We developed two websites both for physicians and Patients.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on an open-source CMS Drupal to build website using Drupal 8.  • Extensively worked with Java Script, HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery & AJAX to design and enhance the UI.  • Worked on RESTful web services.  • Involved in the designing the templates and customizing the CMS Drupal.  • Used JavaScript for validation in different web pages.  • Utilized PHP as frontend and MySQL as backend to develop websites, improve software structure and increase efficiency of computer systems.  • Experience working with Databases like MySQL, MariaDB.  • MySQL connectivity was used to access the required data from the database. Fetched and updated data into the database as required by the website functionality.  • Worked on creating base and routing feature in angular to connect Drupal API.  • Converted Wireframes in to the Drupal Site.  • Helped team to build a custom Drupal 8 responsive theme using bootstrap framework.  • Complete Drupal Theming within Drupal Gap custom modules, theme(s), and custom hooks.  • Customized the Drupal CMS and extensively worked on themes and Modules.  • Responsible for Drupal module development, Profiling and optimization, Drupal theming.  • Worked with Cross-Browser Compatible issues.  • Wrote code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript project requirements.  • Took advantage of the grid system of the Bootstrap framework to facilitate design and development.  • Utilized the responsive utilities of Bootstrap framework to ensure web pages are displayed properly on different devices, including desktop, laptop, iPad and phones  • Helped team to build a custom Drupal 8 responsive theme using bootstrap framework.  • Responsible for creating, editing, and integrating Views blocks and Nodes in a theme.  • Performed End to end testing on Custom Build Templates and Blocks.  • Extensively used GitHub for code deployment and collaborate with team members on code review.  • Performed various admin tasks using Drush & Composer Commands.  • Customized module behavior for Drupal based sites. Utilized over 15 Drupal modules to implement site functionality.  • Currently in the Photoshop and Front-End (CSS base styles) stages of the design. used "Devel" for debugging alongside Firebug and Sublime Text IDE.  • Custom modules developed for dynamic database interaction.  • Wrote custom sub-theme from scratch using Bootstrap 3.  • Maintained Site via Drush CLI.  • Used Backup and Migrate for migration and staging process.  • Used Git as the primary repository for backup and migration of content for different environments.  • Maintained 24/7 high volume availability demands using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, PHP, and MySQL.    Environment: Drupal 8, LAMP, Linux, PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Apache Server, Drupal, Drush, subversion, Php MyAdmin Drupal7/ PHP Developer REI Systems Inc - Sterling, VA May 2016 to February 2017 Description: FAI supports more than 50 comprehensive training courses in traditional and distance settings that range from the entry-level "Shaping Smart Business Arrangements" to team training such as "Performance Based Acquisition" and focused topics on "Risk Management" and "Earned Value Management" to prepare men and women for leadership in the acquisition workforce in which they serve. FAI serves Federal acquisition workforce professionals worldwide. The FAI team delivers these services by providing acquisition training, career development opportunities, and related human capital management activities.    Responsibilities:  • Part of a team responsible for building web applications for the Federal government.  • Used Drupal Views module for controlling the presentation of lists of content  • Developed custom modules to fulfill business requirements, used Drupal Hooks, APIs, Custom content types and Views.  • Created different content types (Article, Slide, Slideshow etc.).  • Implementation and Maintenance of Web application in Drupal - PHP.  • Created front end forms using Drupal has an experience with Drupal theming and Drupal module Development.  • Created sub themes using Zen base theme and many other Drupal's contributed themes.  • Took the responsibility to work on story, slide, slide show, and open page migration from Drupal6 to Drupal7.  • Actively involved and responsible for developing the requirements of the client.  • Customized the Drupal CMS and extensively worked on themes and Modules.  • Created content management and administration pages for loading new certification material.  • Utilized various JQUERY plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Working with a team of front end developers for client optimization and development.  • Interface between the programmers and management regarding Drupal Development.  • Created HTML forms for user selection of criteria based on which question papers are generated for certification preparation.  • Worked on JIRA for Agile software development process.  • Developed generalized script functions written in JavaScript which are used throughout the application.  • Coding and developing the modules and plug-ins for website development.  • Created Web Sites with support for Google Analytics and Social Share.  • Implementing and integrating third party modules and plug-ins for web site support.  • Reporting the daily tasks performed by the team to the upper management and Clients.  • Often fixing the issues that are found by internal tests and by colleagues.  • Write custom modules to implement new features. Assist the help desk in content creation and content updates.  • Developed and designed a support system which would walk customers through the website visually.  • Responsible for fixing bugs and adding new features to the existing Drupal 7 website.    Environment: PHP, DRUSH, DRUPAL (v6, v7), CUSTOM MODULES, WORDPRESS, BOOTSTRAP, CSS, THEME MODULES, HTML, CUSTOM THEMING. Drupal Information Technology Department June 2015 to April 2016 8/PHP Developer.    Description: The North Dakota Information Technology Department (ITD) supports the IT needs of state government, K-12, and higher education. ITD's mission is to provide leadership and knowledge to assist our customers in achieving their mission through the innovative use of information technology. We see ITD as a leader and trusted business partner for strategic IT services within government and education.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on an open-source CMS Drupal to build website using Drupal 8.  • Customized Drupal plugins and Drupal themes.  • Utilized PHP as frontend and MySQL as backend to develop websites, improve software structure and increase efficiency of computer systems.  • Consulted with clients to enhance built-in projects.  • Created and maintained the technical and programmatic documentation to ensure efficient planning and execution.  • I worked closely with a small team of developers and my responsibilities ranged from frontend JavaScript/React work to backend PHP/SQL work.  • Involved in converting Drupal 7 modules to Drupal 8.  • Created Drupal modules for Active log sessions and Service Reporting System.  • Designed and modified Drupal sites for customers to include installation of websites, adding and configuring associated plugins/widgets, etc.  • Proficient at search engine optimization using constantly evolving legitimate techniques to improve website ranking in the several Search Engines.  • Managed the Drupal Content Management System. Created custom modules (in PHP) for client driven requirements.  • Development of Client/Server and Object-Oriented Applications (OOPS) using XML and Relational Databases.  • IT industry developing complex web-based applications using PHP, CSS, HTML.  • Worked as an individual team member and when in teams never required any supervision.  • Experience in content management systems like Drupal, Joomla, WordPress to perfectly suit the client's requirements.  • Working on APIGEE Edge to manage APIs.  • Experience in developing Multiple Web services using REST.  • Experience in client-side scripting - JavaScript.  • Clear understanding of the entire project lifecycle including Analysis, Design, and Development.  • Setup purge module to purge the varnish cache on publishes of each node.  • Experience working with popular Drupal modules like Views, Panels, Features, Organic Groups, Profiles, Workbench, LDAP etc. on Drupal projects.  • Extensively used GitHub for deployment to sites and collaborate with team members.  • Prepared a clear documentation on custom built module for vendor to implement.  • Involved in fixing the CSS for the browsers Safari, Chrome, Mozilla, Internet explorer.  • Extensive working experience with Content Management Tools such as Drupal7 and Drupal8.    Environment: Drupal (V7, V8), PHP5, JAVASCRIPT, CSS3, HTML5, SOAP, JOOMLA,  WORDPRESS Drupal 7 web Developer/PHP UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA, Minnesota - Minnesota, MINNESOTA, US April 2014 to May 2015 Description: Minnesota is one of America's Public ivy universities, which refers to top public universities in the United States capable of providing a collegiate experience comparable with the Ivy League. Founded in 1851, The University of Minnesota is categorized as an R1 Doctoral University with the highest research activity in the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of higher education.  Responsibilities:  • Setup Drupal environment for local, QA, Dev, staging.  • Built custom theme based upon bootstrap framework and theme module.  • Performed full life-cycle development, planning, and integration of web-based software solutions using PHP, MySQL, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Worked on HTML5/CSS and jQuery in a Drupal based CMS environment.  • Built complex views based upon relation between content types and contextual filters.  • Have experience working with drush command tool.  • Uses GIT, Drush scripting, Acquia Cloud.  • Take part in peer code reviews and code improvements.  • Involved in customizing of DRUPAL theme using PHP, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, Bootstrap, HTML etc.  • Involved in PHP Session and Cookies implementation.  • Worked as a part of team on a series of Drupal sites, which included custom panels, blocks, content types, and views that allow every user to customize the look of their site.  • Re-theme the entire website using Bootstrap (In progress). Develop rich Internet applications and dynamic web content for highly visible marketing initiatives.  • Developed fully functional, cross browser compatible websites on DRUPAL platform utilizing Agile and Scrum methodologies.  • Extensively modified REST HTTP service-based client and server web applications  • Build the foundation, with all top Drupal modules including the development modules to assist developers.  • Used twig for templating the views and binding parameters from the controller.  • Implemented custom modules for summary WYSIWYG and filtering role access.  • Created Custom view block for suggested items based upon taxonomy terms.  • Maintained Site via Drush CLI.  • Cooperated with the back-end developer in building the RESTful API.  • Interact with the front-end web development (HTML, CSS, JavaScript).  • Used BEAN module to build and support custom blocks.  • Used node export and feature to export configuration changes into code.  • Experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP), have used OOP to apply various design patterns depending on the requirement.  • Expertise in all areas of Drupal including Views, CCK, Drush, Cron, Custom Module and worked closely with securing additional resource for the team.  • Worked in an Agile environment and Installed and Configured Drupal on a Linux server and other servers.  • Customized the website with other contributed modules including tokens, php code, Tinymce, Views, and Panels.  • Developed new (APIGEE) API's and added new functionalities to existing API's.  • Assisted the Project Manager with Project Planning, Implementation, tracking, Team coordination, communication, IP strategy, research collaborations and in-licensing.  • Worked with Management to create project specifications and documentation and designed evaluated, enhanced, tested, troubleshot, and maintained PHP applications.    Environment: PHP, (APIGEE) API'S, DRUSH, DRUPAL (v6, v7), CUSTOM MODULES, WORDPRESS, BOOTSTRAP, CSS, THEME MODULES, HTML. Web Developer INFO EDGE SOLUTIONS - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Design, UI, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSP, accessibility, and optimization.  • Developed web pages using panels and customized views.  • Developed custom modules and Hooks.  • Worked on conditional based rules.  • Worked on user management (roles & permissions).  • Translated designs and style guides into functional user interfaces, ensuring cross browser compatibility, performance, and robustness.  • Utilized various JQUERY plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Designed wireframes and mockups for new web interface for a network analysis virtual appliance.  • Worked on developing responsive elements in a webpage.  • Working on responsive layout and mobile device optimization.  • Worked on Forms submissions, validations using JavaScript  • Worked with full UI control of HTML/CSS, maintaining code and cleanliness.  • Created some prototype to implement some of the latest features of HTML and CSS.  • Worked with back end developers to implement AJAX and dynamic HTML functionality in JQuery.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Maximized page load by analyzing content and making Adjustments to the code (by following optimization standards).  • Worked with complete redesigns of a daily events website and focused on improving readability, utility, and overall UX.    Environment: PHP, DRUPAL (v6, v7), Java, WORDPRESS, BOOTSTRAP, CSS, THEME MODULES, HTML5, CSS3. Jr. web Developer YASH Technologies Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2010 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Intensively trained in Java, php, python, CSS, HTML.  • Based computing issues, collaborating with engineers and support teams to identify and resolve root causes within the system.  • Responsible for the analysis of requirement, developing Software Requirement Specification, Software Design Specification and deploying software applications.  • Designed master page for web application using HTML, CSS and Java Script  • Working knowledge on Agile Software development life cycle.  • Knowledge in all phases of software.  • Participated in requirement gathering, analysis, development, and maintenance in web.  • Extensively worked on JScript, HTML, XML inputs to pull the data from backend display it on webpage.  • Testing, Production, Maintenance in Enterprise Applications.  • Involved in requirement Analysis, documentation of high level and low-level design.  • Involved in group meeting with teammates.  • To succeed in an environment of growth, excellence and earn a job which provides me job satisfaction, self-development and help me achieve personal as well as organizational goals.EDUCATION: Education Master's Skills BOOTSTRAP (5 years), jQuery (5 years), JAVA (5 years), HTML5 (4 years), CMS (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Content Management Tools Drupal (6&7&8), WordPress, Joomla.  Graphics MS Frontpage 2000, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator.  Test Methodologies WATERFALL, AGILE(SCRUM), SDLC, STLC, SFDC  Scripting Languages Drush, Shell Scripting.  Frameworks Bootstrap, Symfony, Bartik, Custom Theming  Concepts  OOD (Object Oriented Design), OOP (Object Oriented Programming), CMS (Content Management Systems) and MVC (Model View Controller).    Source Control Management GITHUB, GIT, SVN  Databases MySQL, SQL Server, MariaDB  Test Build & Integration Tools Jenkins  Defect Tracking Tools JIRA  Programming Languages JAVA, Python, C, C#, Core Java, SQL  Web Technologies CSS3, HTML5, XML, Java Script, jQuery, Drupal (V7, V8)  Browsers Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, Safari.  MS Office Tools Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, MS Access, Microsoft Project  Operating Systems LINUX, Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Mac OS X, Ubuntu