Owner Owner Newark, DE Highly adaptive, organized and creative full-stack web applications developer. I have DevOps expertise in  building solutions with Node.js / express.js / NestJS, mongoDB / mongoose, ASP.NET(c# and VB),  AngularJS, Angular 6+, Twitter Bootstrap 4, material.io, Sass and AWS (S3 Static, lambda functions,  CloudFront, Route 53, CodeBuild, CodePipeline, ect.). Work Experience Owner homedashapps.com April 2018 to Present This is independent open source project as a universal dashboard being written in Angular 8+, material.io 8, bootstrap 4 and the web site is hosted on AWS.  ? Advanced Components with multiple nested templating.  ? Clean coding practices.  ? Continuous deployment with AWS Pipeline with Lambda functions.  ? Sass for custom styling with bootstrap 4 and Material.io.  ? Code is maintained and deployed from GitHub and with AWS CLI.  ? TypeScript as an Angular project.  ? Landing page is developed with Angular Universal.  ? Separate API developed with Node.js / express.js / NestJS. Full stack developer to enhance a government web application Lockheed Martin (Contract position with Apex) October 2018 to March 2019 One of my key contributions is helping  bootstrap an upgrade from angularJS 1.x to Angular 7+ & helping integrate modern DevOps practices with Team Foundation Server 2018.  ? AngularJS and Angular 6.  ? Jasmine and Nunit for testing.  ? TFS with Git source control.  ? Sass styling with bootstrap 3.  ? SQL server with light use of Entity Framework.  ? Agile Scrum team methodologies. Senior Web Application Developer Ncontracts January 2016 to February 2018 Ncontracts provides Vendor and Risk Management SaaS for banking institutions. My role has been to modernize both the look and feel using the AngularJS framework. I was responsible new  product enhancements. One of the key challenges was maintaining the legacy user interface  (Microsoft MVC) while integrating a new MVVM framework (AngularJS). This was done by creating a custom hybrid solution, allowing the current users to effortlessly transition to the new  layout or stay with the older until they were comfortable with the transition. Additionally, I  train & mentor mid and junior developers.  ? Back end uses C#, VB.NET and SQL Server. I have developed thin controllers for the backend  to handle procedures, permissions and other security measures.  ? CSS is pre-compiled in Sass. I have developed reusable Sass structures, mixins and functions.  ? AngularJS - All major aspects; Components, Services and controllers with TypeScript bindings.  ? Modules including AngularUI, ui-router, ui-select, ui.validate and kendo.directives.  ? TypeScript - For all custom JavaScript code.  ? Other components - Kendo UI and AmCharts.  ? Code is maintained in a private GitHub.  ? Write Sql procedures as necessary.  ? We use Jira for Ticket handling and rode mapping.  ? DevOps practices. Web Application Developer Navient February 2015 to January 2016 I developed internal business solutions for Navient's support services. Navient provides student  loans as a financial service. I worked with the fraud department to better manage  their workload with a strong emphasis on exception prevention and task management. Part of the solution involved a custom rules engine with a drag and drop ui to define ongoing regulatory changes.    ? The front end user interface is developed in AngularJS, Bootstrap.  ? TypeScript and Sass as back end pre-processors.  ? With AngularJS - I implement custom written modules, controllers, services / factories, filters, animations, templates, directives - (isolated scope, attributes, templates, restricted), ajax calls and  promises. I use popular modules such as: ui.bootstrap, angular.filter, and ui.select.  ? I use C# for the back end controllers and services in a distributed computing environment- This  includes, calling SQL procedures, web services and Active Directory groups. I also developed  C# .Net controllers to better manage development and production environments along with simplified SQL solutions.  ? SQL Server 2008 for the back end - I wrote all data structures and procedures pertaining to my  project(s).  ? WSDL consumption of web services.  ? ASP.NET 2013, ASP.NET MVC with Web Essentials.  ? Open source with GitHub and bower - contributor and frequent user.  ? Full-stack web development.  ? Department of Education security cleared to work with DOE loans.  ? Agile Teamwork - Lead technical iterative work flows and project presentations to business. Web Developer Infinity CBS December 2012 to February 2015 As a freelancer, I continued the ERP project for the Newark manufacture full time. I also worked on a volunteer open source project called "jflow Framework". Jflow is built from the ground up  custom framework. It provides a common component structure for JavaScript projects and logic  flow control for asynchronous activity.  ? *All the prior bullet points for Manpower.  ? Open source with GitHub and Node.js npm.  ? Node.js / Express - This includes custom written framework and express server management.  ? Project management tools: gruntjs, Yeoman, npm and several npm modules.  ? Online documentation with jsDoc and doc Strap.  ? One of a kind Asynchronous function creation.  ? Full-stack service development in node.js and JavaScript.  ? My prior project was developing an ERP ( Enterprise Resource Planning ) system for a  ? manufacture in Newark DE. Web Developer EF Technologies - Newark, DE August 2012 to December 2012 to streamline  manufacturer's inventory, orders, contacts and procedures.    ? Developed custom web-based single page application.  ? Analyzed workflow charts, specifications and procedures and converted them into business code.  ? Helped conceptualize general ideas and converted them into real and vital systems.  ? As lead developer, I was directly responsible to the client for the entire system.  ? Back-end was developed on PHP 5. The front-end was developed with HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, DataTables and amCharts. Data Center Technician Spherion Technisource March 2011 to July 2011 Installing, configuring, troubleshooting, administering and maintaining servers and network  equipment. based on Tier 4 Data Center Operational Standards.    ? Ran various copper and SAN fibber through Patch Paneling systems.  ? Installed by racking enterprise-level servers, switches, routers and their associated devices.  ? Configured Integrated Lights Out(3) systems.  ? Diagnosed network connectivity issues, removed and upgraded various devices (Memory, NIC  Cards and Small Form-factor Pluggable devices) Including routing issues to the appropriate  Resources and Incident logging for events, providing on-site and remote troubleshooting and diagnosis of various computer and networking systems.  ? Performed upgrades, configuration, maintenance, and repairs of system hardware. Managed  Industry-brand Contract Technicians in maintaining products (Cisco, Sun, HP, IBM).  ? Decommissioned Servers, Routers, Switches and Hard Drives. Education Associate's Degree in Computer Information Systems Delaware Technical and Community College 2009 to 2012 Skills C#, Angularjs, MVC Links https://stackoverflow.com/users/2040763/shawn-dotey https://www.linkedin.com/in/shawn-dotey-3729922b https://github.com/shawndotey