Freelance - Web Developer & Audio Engineer Freelance - <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; Audio Engineer Long Beach, CA Work Experience Freelance - Web Developer & Audio Engineer June 2013 to Present Web development  ? I started in front end development by converting websites to be responsive and mobile-friendly.  ? Most of my work was (and has been ever since) with twitter's bootstrap  framework  ? Branched out into backend to build custom wordpress plugins/themes for one of my  longest-standing clients. I started doing full-stack javascript development while managing  a small dev team for a client at the USC startup incubator.  ? Took on server management (AWS) while deploying prototypes. Quickly built up to managing some very large stacks and configuring opsworks for Goldenvoice.  Audio engineering  ? I've completed field recordings for a number of music videos, live concerts, and radio  interviews. Often I'll edit this content and deliver for use in online promotion+advertising.  ? I've mastered home studio recording, and have maintained some form of production  studio everywhere I've lived since my first basement studio in college.  ? My personal discography is now over 10 projects and I've produced at least a dozen  more projects, singles, and videos for other artists as well. Mr Metrónomo 2010 to Present The brand and moniker I use for releasing my music to the world. I personally represent and handle all aspects of producing, marketing, and distributing my art. I save money and control the  creative process thanks to my education in audio engineering. www.metaworks.co May 2019 to May 2019 This is the 3rd iteration of my portfolio site. Every 2 years or so I rebuild it against what I  anticipate to be the most relevant technologies of the modern web.  ? The first iteration was a clientside Angular 1 application powered by the (then free)  firebase.  ? Mark II was a react frontend with a slimphp api and simple homebrewed CMS.  ? Mark III, the current live site, uses a modernized version of the same frontend react app  from Mark II (see: class-based components) and is powered by Django for the backend and CMS. RVswithoutborders.org September 2015 to September 2015 I was contacted by a friend after the Calfornia wildfires of 2015 to help put together a wordpress  site to network families displaced by the fires with providers of shelter, specifically unused RVs  as temporary housing. I'm proud to say he collected a useful directory of victims and beneficiaries while the campaign was active.  Miprecords.com  May 2015 I have been developing this website since founding my record label, Men In Plaid Records, in  2015. The site serves as the vanguard online presence for my artists, acts as a networking tool, and provides a platform for new releases. Education Bachelors of Science in Music Industry University of Southern California - Los Angeles, CA May 2012 Music Thornton School September 2009 Skills Django, Javascript, Php, Python, Html5 Links http://www.metaworks.co