Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Somerville, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer First Help Financial - Newton, MA August 2018 to Present • Front End Development with Javascript technologies for in-house applications.  • Occasional development of back-end scripts to automate processes during development of applications.  • Development of re-usable plugins and libraries to reduce development time for implementation of certain features that will be required across all applications. Mobile Developer MentorBuddy - Remote March 2016 to Present Created the Mentor Buddy application. A social application for professionals to meet similar personnel in their industry and act as a mentor or a men-tee to each other.  Application was developed with Ionic Framework, AngularJS and firebase. Other third-party API including Auth0 for handling the user authentication and authorization.  Used the Ionic Creator application to create a mockup and prototype of what our application will look like before proper development on AngularJS.  Used Auth0 social connection authentication to assign a token to a user's session and a refresh to replace current token when user logs out of the application. A delegation token was also implemented to receive firebase secret key and pass user credentials to firebase on user signup.   Set up firebase as the mobile Saas platform and back-end of the mobile application. User data was stored in JSON tree structure when the firebase reference is called.  Created several factory and services on AngularJS to make several request to the firebase database using the API methods for Angular fire.  Integrated Brushwood API on the application for sending push notification and reminders to users of the application. Web/Mobile Developer Clearly Innovative Inc - Washington, DC August 2016 to August 2018 • Created back-end applications/APIs in NodeJS, MongoDB and GraphQL to be consumed by front-end applications.  • Created Mobile and web applications using Ionic Mobile and Angular 2+ with typescript. Consume data from Back-end systems written in NodeJS and PHP.  • Implemented both front-end and back-end features features and behaviors on the application,which includes the cache management, handling mobile application life-cycle events when the user interacts with the application for efficient user experience.    • Ensured front-end design (HTML5 and CSS customization) was uniform for both the iOS and android version of the application.    • Created data service with several methods to call external APIs pending on what data that was needed.   • Utilized several cordova plugins to provide and consume native/hardware capability on the application.  • Created other web applications consuming nodeJS based web services with angular 1 and 2+ as front- end.  • Developed websites with Drupal as back-end service. SAP CRM Consultant/Mobility Unisoft Infotech - Bangalore, Karnataka May 2013 to October 2013 Responsibilities  Provided SAP CRM Middleware Support to EMVEE-Solar company to resolve operational and transaction related issues on the CRM system.  Set-up the communication between the SAP ERP and SAP CRM systems using the remote function call(RFC) of CPG-100, a consumer-packaged good software solution.  Replicated customer data, material data and configuration objects carried out on the SAP ECC end into the SAP CRM back-end system using middleware technologies provided by SAP. Data was replicated to enable SAP CRM become the leading system and carry out all marketing, sales ad service processes that were not existing on SAP ERP system.  Configured the SAP CRM Web user interface and Interaction center for Customer service agents of Next Day Flyers in California to enable them handle multiple transactions on the same platform.  Set-up the Internet Pricing Configurator (IPC) on the SAP CRM system of Next Day Flyers to determine the price of a customized product requested by a customer.  Developed SAP Mobile Applications using the SAPUI5 mobile framework for the client field sales employees to generate lead and sales for organization while “on the go”.  Made use of SAPUI5 documentation to create the mobile user interface using the sap.m library and Jquery on the controller side. Development was done using the MVC approach for SAPUI5.  Made use of the Odata services to consume data from the back-end system to the mobile platforms.    Skills Used  SAP CRM, Middleware RFC, HTML5, JavaScript, SAPUI5 PHP Web Developer / Automation Tester ThinkFirst Technologies - Lagos, GU August 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities  Developed software applications using CodeIgniter PHP (PHP MVC framework) on a LAMP environment.  Developed the School Management System Portal for Base University. Application was developed to enable students register for courses, check exams and test scores, calculate their cumulative grade point average (CGPA). Application was developed using CodeIgniter PHP framework and MySQL as the back-end system. Made use of the PDF library and CSV library on codeigniter to enable students and faculty generate portable document copy of any required report on the system.   Developed the content management system section of the Eye Foundation Website using MODX. Created templates for different pages on MODX to enable the administrator to upload contents on the site periodically.  Developed the user management system and administrative dashboard area of the Eye Foundation site using PHP MVC Framework and MySQL as the back-end. Used Mail-chimp PHP library on application to enable administrator to send bulk personalized emails to all customers without any cost.  Automated testing process of the Remarks School Result application. Used the Selenium Web-driver for java to automate the school registration process, student result upload, setting exam score rules on the application. Testing was selected based on the requirement on the test-case document.    Accomplishments  Created and Online Donation Application for the Eye Foundation where users donate cash and assets to the initiative.   Involved in the design, implementation and testing phase of the Remarks Application. An online academic report card for high schools used to record academic scores and grades.  - Developed an Online Recruitment Portal for Binary Consult, one of the biggest job search portal in Africa.    Skills Used  PHP, HTML 4/5, CSS, MySQL, MailChimp Marketing tool, PHP MVC (CodeIgniter, Laravel). Technology Support Commit Technology and Consult - Lagos, GU January 2011 to July 2012 Responsibilities  Facilitated training programs on oracle, Microsoft office specialization and other IT Professional courses to impact upon aspiring technology professionals and trainees.  Set up, installed and configured the windows server of Ise-oluwa Montessori Schools. Configured the windows deployment service (WDS) for mass installation of windows operating systems on all workstations to save time and cost.  Local Area Network Set-up on the Ise-oluwa Montessori School computer laboratory for communication among all computer systems.   Set up and configured the terminal service on the window servers of several educational institutions to grant specific access of software applications to users on the active directory.   Provided remote and in-house support on the computer systems of various educational institutions to resolve problems that occurred.    Skills Used  Windows Server, Oracle, Active Directory Education Master's in Software Engineering Stratford University - Falls Church, VA 2015 to 2016 Bachelor's in Management Information Systems Covenant University Skills SAP CRM (3 years), SAP UI5 (2 years), PHP (4 years), Android (1 year), Javascript (3 years), Java (2 years), HTML 5 (3 years), HTML (4 years), CSS (4 years), CSS3 (2 years), Web Development (4 years), Mobile (3 years), SAP CRM Middleware (3 years), Web Services (3 years), AngularJS (2 years), Laravel (3 years), NodeJS (2 years), GraphQL (2 years), ExpressJS (2 years), Angular2+ (2 years), ReactJS (1 year), Git, MYSQL Links http://github.com/oelumeze Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) August 2013 Oracle Certified Associate