Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - Gridscape Solutions Inc • Rich experience in Web Development, Server side scripting & Client side Scripting  • Exposure of working on projects based on PHP, Javascript, Jquery, Ajax, MySQL, HTML5, CSS3.  • Worked on custom framework based on MVC, build with core PHP, Smarty as a template engine.  • Adept in working in sync with the other departments i.e. Visualization team, Design team, QA team to ensure smooth flow of work  • Skilled in performing according to corporate parameters for achieving business and individual goals.  • Participating in complete range of project activities, starting from conceptualization, testing to maintenance of the project  • Each project based on MVC framework has folder structure, for generic files - i.e. for db connection, encryption information, Model for class files, View folder for Smarty + HTML files.  • Worked on each project on Agile environment.  • Honed with strong communication, problem solving & time management skills with proficiency at grasping new technical concepts quickly and utilizing the same in a productive manner.  • Always ready to learn new things and ready to take new responsibilities. Work Experience Software Engineer Gridscape Solutions Inc - Fremont, CA July 2018 to Present Work Focus:  • Using PHP MVC frame work, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript and Jquery designed and developed a Solar & ESS simulation web tool with user level accesses.  • Used GIT VCS for easy code maintenance  • Integrated REST-API to fetch data from a utility website.  • Parsed XML response from API in desired format to display on tool using XML Parser.  • Had hands on experience with python Django2.1.  • Performed manual testing on developed tool.  • Designed and developed a tool from scratch including database design and coding structure design. Software Engineer Darshan Softtech Private Limited - Vadodara, Gujarat January 2014 to February 2018 Work Focus:  • Building website, managing database and providing support for over 35 Website of Healthcare domains.  • Worked on affiliate marketing project that includes creating a web portal for affiliate website. Portal generates a small piece of JavaScript which includes information about the product to be advertise on affiliate's website, also affiliate can access information about their commission and order that came from their site.  • Worked on inventory management system, which maintains record of each software and hardware accessories belong to company.  • Developed API JSON based to store email history sending out from 3rd party email vendor using MongoDB.  • Integrated more than 10 payment gateway for different country and worked with large set of APIs.  • Participated in maintenance of numerous websites for different countries, also maintain backend (CRM) for managing all 35 websites from single CMS.  • For above projects used PHP with MVC framework, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS HTML5, CSS3, MySQL phpMyAdmin, PostgreSQL, MongoDB technology.  • Used JQuery for performing form validation, animation, use different jQuery plug in for integrating sliders.  • Created modular form and created Ajax based form submission to keep track of filled item in case the form is not completed fully.  • Used Ace Project Management tool, Lean bug tracking tool, Google analytics, Google Tag manager, Optimizely A/B Testing tool  • Wrote JavaScript functions to handle complex form validation, multiple windows targeting, and dynamic form element updating  • Used GIT VCS for easy code maintenance.  • Performed manual testing of each feature developed by me and sent to test team and made it live after getting approval from testing team.  • Used bootstrap framework for styling the document. Web Developer Aadhya Healthcare Services - Vadodara, Gujarat August 2013 to January 2014 Work Focus:  • Develop and maintain healthcare related sites. From analysis to development, testing and maintenance  • Work on both website and CMS backend. With use of core PHP and JavaScript / JQuery, Ajax and HTML5 / CSS3, Bootstrap. Education MS (IT) University of the Cumberlands - Gujarat, IN Skills VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, C++, DJANGO, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, REACTJS, JSON, PHP, PYTHON, SCRIPTING, XML, HTML5, MVC, DATABASE, MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, HTML 5, jQuery, CSS Additional Information IT Skills    Scripting Languages: PHP (Smarty)  Database: MySQL  Web Skills: Web Service, XML, HTML5  JavaScript Framework: Jquery, Bootstrap  Front End Technology: Json, Ajax, JavaScript, Jquery  Project Management Tool: Ace Project management tool  Bug Tracking Tool: Lean Testing Bug tracker  Well versed with: HTML5, CSS3, LAMP (Linux + Apache + MySQL + PHP) Stack, MVC framework design, REST-API, Google Analytics, Google Tag Manager, Optimizely A/B Testing, Inspectlet, Git, Angular JS, Node.js, ReactJS  Basic knowledge: CodeIgnitor framework, Symphony framework, Python, Java, C++, ASP.NET (C#), PostgreSQL, MongoDB, CSS, Visual Studio, R Studio, GIT, Django framework  Operating System: Mac OS, Windows, Linux