Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer Minneapolis, MN Whether it's code, data, design, or management, I constantly take on many  evolving roles to fit the need of clients, or employers. I have almost a  decade of experience of everything from database design, to front-end UX  and every complex piece in between.  While never having an official lead, or PM role, peers and superiors often  value my straight-forward approach to logical solutions.  GitHub: https://github.com/bellingboe Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Independent Contractor - Minneapolis, MN July 2016 to December 2016 Software engineer contractor. Project Consultant Robert Half Technology - Minneapolis, MN March 2016 to July 2016 Project Consultant for Robert Half. Senior PHP Engineer Five Axis Software - Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN June 2015 to March 2016 I was brought on to Five Axis to help build out their MyDocStor SaaS application. Built with PHP, MySQL, and hosted on DigitalOcean, MyDocStor brings 256-bit industry-standard encryption together with an intuitive interface and an endless Across Control feature to allow organizations to easily host and share their important documents with anyone inside their organization while insuring each file is always encrypted, and can only be accessed by the appropriate user audience.     Start a free, 14-day trial at http://mydocstor.com/ Javascript Developer Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc January 2015 to May 2015 Worked with Backbone, Ember, Jquery, and vanilla JS to build and maintain client-side  components and their APIs. Creative Director Amethyst Creative, LLC October 2010 to May 2015 I create and design iPhone apps.  https://itunes.apple.com/us/artist/amethyst-creative-llc/id440592920 Associate User Interface Engineer Digital River, Inc. - Minnetonka, MN August 2014 to October 2014 I was in charge of refactoring their internal CSS builder (using SASS) using a slightly- modified version of jQuery and Underscore.js Software Engineer Total Training Network - Minneapolis, MN July 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities  Use my senior-level experience in database design, and various programming languages to quickly pick up ColdFusion, and SQL Server to bring a fresh set of eyes to the brand  new product.  Personal Achievements: - Real-time chat system with a Node.js/Redis backend    Sole individual responsible for maintaining and securing the remote web socket server for real-time functionality.  Used New Relic to diagnose a severe bottleneck and was able to propose a solution to management which ultimately resulted in a massive performance increase.    Discovered, proposed and implemented a solution for an important, but inefficient  query, that involved removing multiple JOINs on every call, and instead generating the string needed a single time only thus removing half of the query overhead.    Proposed and implemented a solution to the known issue of storing blocks of text as static English phrases in the database, and instead started the practice of storing each  "block" that potentially holds dynamic variables regardless of language, and is parsed  via code, lessening the strain on the database.    Often drove direction in various circumstances. Senior Web Developer Packet Power - Minneapolis, MN February 2013 to June 2013 I was brought on as a Senior Developer at Packet Power to drive forward their client- facing electricity monitoring service. Using PHP I worked on many facets of the service.  Most notably is the yet-to-be-released PM2; a highly interactive web interface (not  Flash) to manage datacenter room layouts which will replace the current PM (Power  Manager) Windows application. Besides PM2, I used both front- and back-end skills  (and MySQL) to implement new features and functionality into the existing service and devised solutions to customer problems on a case-by-case basis, or at the system level. Interactive Developer The Nerdery - Minneapolis, MN October 2012 to January 2013 I worked on over a dozen interactive projects during my time at The Nerdery.  On the front-end I did work with HTML5, and CSS3, and often with Javascript and jQuery. I also helped scoped projects- determine what the client needs and how we can  best help meet those needs. I also worked on iOS and mobile projects for prominent  companies.  All positions I took required the use of Photoshop to either create interfaces based on provided assets, or create interactive prototypes.. Web Developer Global Edge, LLC - Saint Cloud, MN June 2012 to October 2012 My focus at Global EDGE was to help create an in-house framework, and normalize  development procedures using PHP and front-end technologies.  Once we completed the framework, I quickly developed front-end templates for use in the PHP framework. Web Developer Acesse Corporation June 2010 to June 2012 I wore many hats at Inter-Mark (now Acesse). I was one of the leads on a 12-month  project to re-write the company framework (PHP) which was then used to develop web  services.  In total, I developed 5 web applications with the new custom framework. I also  innovated in their front-end area, increasing user engagement by using my skills to create a better user experience using Javascript and jQuery.. Lead Web Developer Nexxal Health & Nutrition Group September 2008 to June 2009 Back-end developer (PHP) Education Elk River High School Links https://github.com/bellingboe Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xoomts5uugd8hxpf Data Analysis — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xl50rucmeanrsh-y Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills: - PHP - MySQL - iOS - SVN - Git - ColdFusion - SQL Server - Apache  server setup/admin - Nginx server setup/admin - Linux (Ubuntu, Arch  Linux) CLI - Postfix setup/admin - Javascript - UX via Photoshop - HTTPS  certificate management  Notable Projects:    1. Destruct.co    Share a confidential note via a web link that will self-destruct after it is  read by your intended recipient.  Source: https://github.com/bellingboe/destruct-engine  Tech: PHP, MySQL, ActiveRecord, MVC, AES, PHP, JS    1. Destruct.co Chat    Every chat message is encrypted in 256-bit AES in combination with PGP  keys.  Source: https://github.com/bellingboe/destruct-  engine/tree/master/htdocs/chat  Tech: PHP, MySQL, ActiveRecord, MVC, AES, PHP, JS    1. RackSpace-PHP    A Simple PHP wrapper for the RackSpace API.  Source: https://github.com/bellingboe/RackSpace-PHP  Tech: PHP    1. LANGUAGE-PHP    A work-in-progress natural language library.  Source: https://github.com/bellingboe/LANGUAGE-PHP    Skills MySQL PHP Facebook API  JavaScript jQuery FTP  HTML Graphic Design Web Design  Web Development Online Marketing CSS  iOS development CSS3 Web Standards  iOS development CSS3 Web Standards  XHTML SEO LAMP  Advanced CSS OOP AJAX  JSON REST Advertising  Copywriting Front-end HTML 5  User Experience Apache Git  User Interface Web Services ColdFusion  User Interface Design CMS ActionScript  WordPress Subversion Web Applications  Databases Microsoft SQL Server Database Design  MVC Nginx Mobile Applications  Mobile Devices iOS Node.js  HTML5