Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - Integrishield Roeland Park, KS Work Experience Software Engineer Integrishield - Kansas City, MO December 2018 to Present Skills used: PHP, Phalcon, Angular 2+(current version 7), NPM, Typescript, Node.js, MySQL, Linux, BitBucket, Jira, GIT, phantomJS, websockets, ZeroMQ, MS Graph    Built a node.js application that crawls a website looking for phrases as requested by a client. Check search popular search engines for ads containing certain phrases or products.    Building a portal to all clients to report on and manipulate the node crawler application. Web Developer Nations Companies - Overland Park, KS August 2016 to December 2018 Skills used: PHP, MVC CodeIgniter, MS SQL, MYSQL, Maria DB, Redis, jQuery, Angularjs, Bootstrap CSS, and Wordpress  Built applications used to communicate between banks, lawyers, services providers, and more for property management, mortgage defaults, and bankruptcies.  Wrote code for both front and back end, but specialized in front end development, utilizing jQuery, Angularjs, and React to build robust, user friendly user interfaces.  Work with managers to build and design applications for their team of employees and their clients.  Maintained company's various Wordpress marketing sites. Trip Mate Kansas City, MO March 2015 to August 2016 Skills used: PHP, MVC CodeIgniter, MS SQL, jQuery, Angularjs, Angular2, Bootstrap CSS, and Wordpress  Maintained and improved upon an existing insurance claim site used by both clients and internal users.  Created enhancements for the E-commerce sites, used to drive sales of travel insurance.  Wrote code for both the front end and back end on the claim site and E-commerce sites.  Meet regularly with users and management to discuss possible improvements for various projects. Web Developer/CRM Manager Complete Medical Homecare - Lenexa, KS August 2009 to March 2015 Skills used: PHP, MVC CodeIgniter, My SQL, PHPMyAdmin, Inside Sales/Sales Force, Bootstrap CSS, Wordpress  Started as the manager of the Inside Sales CRM. Oversaw backups, updates, faxing schedules, and creating reports.  Created an API based CRM for the outside sales representatives that communicated with our CRM. This was utilized to create a line of communication and transparency of data about customers between internal users and sales reps.  Create and maintain various marketing sites via wordpress and Product Cart for E-commerce sites.  Work closely with management to find ways to improve workflows for their teams. Education design Johnson County Community College - Overland Park, KS August 2006 to May 2009 Skills Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, TYPESCRIPT, MYSQL, PHP, CSS