Java Fullstack Developer Java Fullstack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Fullstack Developer - Chase Bank Raleigh, NC • Java Full stack developer with 9+ years of experience in full software development life cycle including requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintenance.  • Extensive experience in developing JAVA based applications using JAVA, JEE, JDBC, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS and Webservices.  • Hands on experience in the implementation of Core Java SE 8 concepts like Streams API, Lambda functions, Generics, Time API, Functional Interfaces Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling and Collection API.  • Expertise in developing Micro services using Spring Boot and Node JS to build more physically separated modular applications which will improve scalability, Availability, Agility of application.  • Proficient in implementation of spring frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring REST, Spring AOP, Spring transaction Management, Spring Data, Spring DAO, Spring Batch, Spring Security and Spring Boot.  • Experience in using various JavaScript Web application related libraries such as Node Js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Knockout, Angular.js, React.js, JQuery UI and Google Web Toolkit.  • Strong experience using frameworks like JSP, EJB, Java Persistence API, JNDI, JMS, Struts, JSF in developing scalable, reliable, efficient web and enterprise applications.  • Good experience in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and Microservices architecture using J2EE Web Services based on Restful (JAX-RS), SOAP (JAX-WS), JAX-RPC and JAXR (Java API for XML Registries) using frameworks like Apache CXF, Jersey, Axis and Spring framework, NodeJS (Express JS &Hapi JS)  • Hands on Experience in working with Databases MYSQL, Oracle 10g/11g, SQL-Server, DB2 and NoSQL (MongoDB, Cassandra) Dynamo DB, Couch DB.  • Expertise in ORM tools Hibernate 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, iBATIS, with JPA specifications, HQL, Caching, ACID transaction, Locking and implemented ODM framework like Mongoose for mapping MongoDB.  • Expertise in creating Databases, Tables, Stored Procedure, DDL/DMLTriggers, Views, User defined data types (UDT), Cursors, Functions, data dictionaries, and maintaining data integrity and Indexes using SQL.  • Good knowledge in writing stored procedures, Packages and functions using SQL & PL/SQL and good at advance PL/SQL topics like Triggers, Collections.  • Experienced in developing front end applications using HTML4/5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS2/3 (using SASS and LESS), Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular2, 4.X and developing dynamic web pages.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions. Design and implement a Web based content management utilizing XML, JAXB, DOM, XSLT, XPath, and JavaScript for data generation and presentation with JSF.  • Expertise in latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular JS, Ember JS, Backbone JS, React JS, Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  • Having good Experience in MVVM design pattern such as Angular 2.X and Angular4.X.  • Developed multiple Angular 4.0 components which are compatible with latest versions of typescript, Angular CLI.  • Developed front-end using React JS, JQuery, HTML and High Charts based on MVC architecture.  • Strong experience in developing Single Page Application (SPA), using MEAN (Mongo, Express, Angular and Node) stack.  • Hands on experience in developing server-side JavaScript frameworks using Node JS (Hapi JS, Express JS) to build event driven, non-blocking i/o model web application Experience in integration tools like Spring Integration, Apache CXF, Apache Kafka and Apache Camel to integrate the enterprise application technologies with existing JVM environment.  • Experience in using Drools rules engine for defining business rules and Validations.  • Experience with testing tools like Selenium and build tool like Jenkins.  • Experience in software configuration management using CVS, SVN and GIT. Work Experience Java Fullstack Developer Chase Bank - Charlotte, NC April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed Application using Java, spring, Hibernate and Node.js.  • Developed Application using Java, HTML and Java Script, Angular JS.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information  • Used SQL Queries in Java code to do select/update/delete depending upon the business requirement.  • Developed Docker container based micro services using Spring Boot and deployment on Kubernetes cluster.  • Developed applications using technologies Spring Modules, Spring MVC, DAO, and Security and ORM data.  • Implemented all the functionality using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Thymeleaf and Hibernate.  • Implemented Hibernate and JPA for data storage into MySQL, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle Data bases.  • Worked with ORM technologies such as JPA TopLink, Hibernate, iBatis/MyBatis and Spring JDBC.  • Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Implemented Hibernate Criterias for Object relational model for handling server side/database objects data.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility for both Javascript and CSS in several browsers and devices.  • Designed and enhanced development platform by doing POC using frameworks like Angular 2 and NPM.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Used React built in Declaratives, Components and Props, and filter functionality to develop UI.  • Maintained Parent and child elements by using State and Props in React and Redux.  • Designed and implemented a update for a server repair software tool in HTML5 and CSS3.  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Involved in the development using Java/J2EE Technologies, Web Services and Hibernate ORM Framework.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using, JSP and Java Script, Middleware layer using Servlet and Controllers, Business objects developed using Page Beans and data access layer using iBatis and Hibernate framework.  • Used NodeJS for doing non-blocking design operation for server side code and Angular.js framework in developing various UI components.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Developed the responsive UI web pages using XHTML, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS 2, JavaScript, node JS and has worked with Angular JS filters in expressions and directives to filter data in the UI.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Used Spring framework including Spring core/IoC, Spring Web, Spring Security and implement the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control (IoC) for injecting the beans and reduced the coupling between the classes and implemented the Model View Controller using Spring MVC.  • Implemented the application using SpringBoot Framework and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Microservices have been built using spring boot, Netflix OSS, spring cloud and deploying to AWS Cloud.  • Experienced in object oriented analysis, design and application development using JAVA, J2EE, XML, JSON, RAML, JMS, BRMS, NoSQL technologies Implemented code according to create AngularJS Controller, which isolate scopes perform operations.  • Wrote custom JavaScript utilizing jQuery to enhance theme, setup server to handle more number of page requests.  • Implemented REST based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider and consumed using HTTP services from angular JS modules.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular JS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Used Angular2.0 HTTP Module to make API calls and worked with the observables.  • Developed Single page applications and Custom Directives using Angular 2.0.  • Implemented Routing, Imperative Routing and guards with the help of Angular2.0 route module.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop spring based application with very less configuration.  • Implemented ODBC which is used for connecting to the database Oracle.  • Used Springframework to provide loose coupling between different application modules.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST for implementing SOA.  • Worked with NoSQL database Mongo DB and worked with it to perform many different operations.  • Used Cassandra for achieving denormalization through features like collections.  • Developed unit tests with JUNIT and Mockito. Write automated regression tests using JMeter.  • Developed build tasks to run the unit tests on Jenkins and maintaining separate build in Maven for the module for easy integration to the portal build and configure with Jenkins.  • Wrote Jasmine unit tests using Karma to verify AngularJS modules and JavaScript utility routines.  • Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junit, Cucumber.    Environment: Java, Spring boot, Spring MVC, AOP, ORM, Thymeleaf, Hibernate, JavaScript, Angular 2, React, Redux, HTML5/CSS, AJAX, bootstrap, NodeJS, ExpressJS, MySQL, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, MongoDB, SOA, Rest, JSON, Git, Swagger, JUnit, Sonarqube, Agile, Scrum, AWS, EC2, Docker, Kubernetes, SSL, Lamdba, Maven, JSON, GraphQL, JIRA, Microservices, Linux, React Native, iOS, Android, Kotlin, Swift. Java Fullstack Developer Comcast Corporation October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Create and Enhance J2EE Web Application using Java and Windows Server.  • Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  • Architect and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  • Developed application using Spring Modules like Spring MVC, DAO, Boot, ORM, Security, and Integration.  • Implemented business rules in Java technology and performed data driven testing using JUnit  • Worked with ORM technologies such as JPA TopLink, Hibernate, iBatis/MyBatis and Spring JDBC.  • Implemented a Javascript front end for a Purchase Order processing applications built using Angular JS.  • Used JavaScript to make menus on web pages and displayed part of a web page upon user request.  • Developed Single Page applications using AngularJS using components, directives using Typescript.  • Worked on JavaScript test frameworks like Jest, Jasmine and Karma, and AngularJS test framework Protractor.  • Development of custom modules using AJAX, Javascript, Jquery, JSON.  • Involved in creating responsive web pages with HTML5, Bootstrap and CSS framework like SAAS.  • Developed the code to send the automated emails from NodeJS on front-end Angular view pages.  • Used Node for dependencies and express.js for writing api.  • Developed different modules using Java, Apache Camel, Spring and Hibernate.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JMS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, EJB, Java Beans.  • Developed and maintained UNIX/Perl/ANT scripts for Java/J2EE build and release tasks.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Used several spring modules like Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring AOP& batch.  • Initiated mappings among the relations and written named HQL queries using Hibernate  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API, Spring Boot for microservices and Spring Batch for running batch jobs.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY, JavaScript.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS  • Involved in developing in hibernate using the spring DAO layer to do the operations using oracle data base.  • Used Unix Commands to see logs for to track the issues in different environments  • Spring boot is used to create new module and deploy the application in tomcat.  • Used Test Driven Development (TDD) for develop the new applications such as member search in delta dental.  • Development of code using HTML, CSS, JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, and Prototype plus relevant coding standards.  • Using advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Developed user interface by using the Flux for SPA development.  • Defined and developed the presentation layer of the application using HTML 5, CSS3 and AJAX.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Used Cassandra as the backend database to retrieve Data Access Objects.  • Proficient understanding of server side CSS pre-processors including SASS and LESS.  • Worked with ejb3 and handled the persistence using the toplink persistence framework.  • Worked excessively on core JAVA /Kotlin / SWIFT concepts like polymorphism, inheritance, serialization, synchronization and exception handling.  • Imported Bootstrap modules such as Accordion, BsDropdown, Collapse, Modal, Progressbar, Tooltip and Popover for the user attractive Angular 6.0 application.  • Used Angular 6.0 to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA)  • Worked with NPM commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of Node.js applications.  • Responsible for the migration of the entire project from Angular 5.0 to Angular 6.0.  • Implemented test cases and performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.    Environment: Java, Spring, DAO, MVC, ORM, Ibatis, JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML5/CSS, AJAX, bootstrap, NodeJS, ExpressJS, Postgres, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Pl/SQL, MongoDB, Restful API, JSON, Eclipse, websphere, Git, SVN, JUnit, Selenium, Agile, Scrum, AWS, S3, API Gateway, Docker, Kubernetes, SSL, Lamdba, Maven, JSON, JIRA, SOA, Tomcat, Linux, Mac, Cordova. Java Fullstack Developer Workday. Inc - Bloomfield, CT October 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed web-based applications using Java frameworks and modules such as Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring JDBC, and Spring Java Mail Sender.  • Create and Enhance J2EE Web Application using Java and Windows Server.  • Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  • Architect and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  • Used spring for dependency injection and integrated spring with Hibernate ORM framework.  • Implemented and worked with Java based application using Oracle database using myBatis mappers.  • Worked on JavaBeans with dependency injection to implement JSF framework.  • Used JSP's HTML on frontend, Servlets as Front Controllers and Java script for client side validations.  • Worked on JavaScript for developing and maintaining graphs.  • Used JavaScript to make dropdown on web pages and displayed part of a web page upon user request.  • Configured routing in the single page application promoting rich user experience.  • Designed and developed the Simulator API for Amazon S3.  • Maintained AWS infrastructure and developed back end services.  • Used AWS SQS with JMSAPI for asynchronous communication by keeping messages in the Message queue.  • Developed unit testing for angular components using Mocha, Chai, Gulp, Karma, Istanbul and Protractor.  • Created custom angular filters to filter the data based on user selection in bootstrap dropdowns.  • Implemented angular form validations and used bootstrap to show error, warning and info messages  • Configured Spring security in the application with LDAPTemplate and access controls using Spring security annotations based on user roles.  • Developed SpringJersey resources for various HTTP methods and to send the requested data in JSON format to the web interface.  • Implemented AngularJS filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Used Angular JS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with PHP framework.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jquery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using React.  • Created Collections and documents and performed CRUD operations with Mongo repositories.  • Developed API usingNode.js to allocate access to data in SQL, Mongo DB.  • Written variety of filter queries in Mongo DB to retrieve JSON data and passed to service layer.  • Developed ORM mappings using Hibernate and wrote Criteria, Named and HQL queries for data retrievals in the DAO layer.  • Implemented JAX Web services by applying SOA concepts in conjunction with SOAP.  • Used Web Services for sending and getting data from different applications using WSDL messages, such as task details from Work distribution, getting the status on the same, etc.  • Used Apache AXIS on Eclipse Web Tools platform for developing creating the Web Services. Integrated with Spring IOC while implementing Web services.  • Created Node.js Express server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from AngularJS Front End to MongoDB Back End to provide chatting service.  • Used Spring declarative transaction management and Spring Batch and scheduling for backend data processing.  • Implemented Normalization rules using regular expressions for minor parties.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components  • Implemented RESTFul webservices API using HTTP and REST principles.  • Created features including Single Sign On with existing client website and a REST API to expose manipulation functionality to external clients using AngularJS.  • Built RESTful API server to achieve CRUD operations for posts using Jersey, JAX-RS, JSON, spring REST using MEAN stack (Mongo DB, Express, AngularJS, Node.js) Technologies.  • Works with business analysts and coordinates with them to make sure the data is being populated properly.  • Involved in writing JUNIT test cases and day to day builds and deployments usingMAVEN and Jenkins.  • Created automated security test cases using Cucumber, Junit, and Mockito.  • Involved in working, updating and closing the tasks created in Microsoft Team Foundation Server.    Environment: Java, Spring, Struts, JSF, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML5/CSS, AJAX, bootstrap, NodeJS, ExpressJS, Db2, Sql, Pl/SQL, Rest, XML, Apache CXF, Eclipse, weblogic, SVN, JUnit, Selenium, Agile, AWS, EC2, S3, Servlets, Maven, JSON, XML, SOA, Tomcat, Linux, unix, iOS, android. Sr. Web Developer The Active Network - Austin, TX April 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created numerous web applications utilizing MV, C#, jQuery, AJAX and Web Services.  • Instituted and trained fellow developers on a custom Data Access Layer utilizing the Entity Framework, LINQ and Lambda expressions.  • Implemented cross-departmental Innovation Meetings to engage employees to explore new avenues of revenue-generating or cost-saving ideas.  • Coordinated branching/merging strategies incorporating Team Foundation Server 2010.  • Assisted in running various Agile project management meetings (Sprint Planning Meetings, Scrums, etc)  • Built popular and trending module with ListView library, providing users the popular and trending projects on GitHub  • Hands on experience using Selenium and writing Selenium tests through Eclipse including  Quality Center.  • Working in agile scrum development environment with bi-weekly sprint.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag libraries.  • Experience in using Java/J2EE technologies like JSPs, Servlets, EJBs, JDBC, JNDI.  • Integration of ANT/Nexus, Cloudbees Jenkins, Urban Code Deploy with Patterns/Release, Git, Confluence, Jira.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive UI web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, Google web toolkit and CSS.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, IOS, ANDROID, HIBERNATE, C#, JQUERY, ENTITY FRAMEWORK, SQL SERVER 2008, TFS 2010, MVC, GITHUB, SELENIUM, SCRUM, JSP, SERVLETS, ANT, GOOGLE WEB TOOLKIT Web Developer Collateral Risk Solutions - Silver Spring, MD May 2010 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created and maintained numerous business critical applications. These applications were the cornerstone of the organization and needed to be highly effective as well as very efficient.  • Developed efficiency reports for senior management.  • Developed an online task assignment application. This application is used to assign various tasks in the business process to an employee and provide relevant metrics to management.  • Developed and maintained web services to allow clients to submits orders and receive reports.  • Worked closely with various department heads throughout the SDLC.  • Created a repository on GitHub and connected with local and server for developer maintain the application code on local.  • Involved in Automation of Web Application using Selenium.  • Experienced in ALM Tools TFS, Jira, VersionOne, Rally as Scrum Master for project planning, metrics and reporting.  • Developed a web-based system with HTML, XML, Java Script, JSP Tag Libraries, CSS and Custom Tag Libraries using Struts 1.2 framework.  • Worked with SOAP, dependency injection frameworks and Java Servlets.  • Designed and developed lots of custom Wordpress codes, themes and plug-in.  • Worked heavily on Drupal CMS development and developed various custom modules.  • Expertise in developing application using Microsoft .NET framework, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, VB.NET, C#, WPF.  • Utilized ASP.NET 2.0 validation controls and JavaScript to perform client side validation.  • Re-Designed, coded, implemented and tested new features using C#, C++, QT.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Android, IOS, Mobile Apps, C#/VB.NET, SQL Server 2005, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, REST/SOAP, Crystal Reports, Agile, Silverlight, GITHUB, SELENIUM, SCRUM, JSP, SERVLETS, WORDPRESS, DRUPAL, .NET, ASP, C++ Education MS in Computer Science University Of Delaware