Senior AEM Developer Senior AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior AEM Developer - State Street Riverside, CA ? 7+ years' experience in Software development including, analysis, design and testing in Java J2EE Technologies and developing large scale web applications using Adobe AEM (Adobe Experience Manager 6.1)/Day CQ content management systems.  ? Over 4 years' Strong experience on Adobe CQ5 component development, Templates, backend OSGi bundles, DAM (Digital Asset Management), Workflows, Designs, etc.  ? Expertise in developing Enterprise level applications using Sightly, JSP, J2EE technologies like JSP, JDBC, Servlets, JSTL.  ? Experience in web development languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular Js  ? Knowledge on application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic.  ? Version control tools like GITHUB, SVN and Clear Case  ? Experienced in working on IDEs like Eclipse, CRX (CRXde lite and CRXde)  ? Around 4 years' experience working in Adobe CQ5.x/AEM5 (CQ 5.6,6.1)  ? Strong knowledge on employing Java Content Repository(JCR) for developing applications on Adobe CQ  ? Proficient in CQ Architecture, Application development and Deployment Cycles.  ? Knowledge in developing application on OSGI, Apache Sling and Apache Felix Frameworks.  ? Experienced in deploying dynamic libraries and API packages into OSGI  ? Experience in, Digital Asset Management, Tag libraries customizing foundation components in CQ.  ? Strong development experience in building Components using JSP and Sightly.  ? Experience in Large Scale Web applications.  ? Experience in creating Templates, Custom Workflows, Widgets, dialogs and design dialogs in CQ.  ? Involved in spring testing and working with Web Services, both SOAP & REST, JAX-WS, WSDL.  ? Knowledge on Search implementation using Lucene.  ? Strong Understanding Object oriented analysis and design and Responsive web application development  ? Performed unit testing and functional testing by creating test suites and has strong knowledge on Quality Assurance processes.  ? Experience in working in an AGILE Software development model and Waterfall Development model.  ? Created UML models for applications designed business flows using Rational Rose tool  ? Good understanding of all Adobe AEM building blocks and the AEM development and deployment process Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior AEM Developer State Street - Quincy, MA September 2016 to Present Involved in Installing and Configuring version 6.2 of AEM Web Content Management System and Apache Felix Admin Console.  ? Involved in Designing and developing Migration from legacy systems (Concentra & Mediabin) to AEM  ? Have expertise knowledge on Migration and fixed many issues while migrating huge content(40TB).  ? Developed multiple JMX scripts for updating content.  ? Worked on developing Custom Index rules for minimizing the search queries response time and for improving the performance.  ? Developed multiple JMX scripts for updating content.  ? Worked on developing Custom Index rules for minimizing the search queries response time and for improving the performance.  ? Leveraged out-of- box asset search and indexed custom metadata properties.  ? Designed and developed custom assets search result page for list view. Embedded many features like exporting search results in excel.  ? Developed custom launchers and workflows for processing & publishing Assets. Written schedulers for batch processing of assets. Made many configurable properties in schedulers.  ? Fixed many system performance related issues like observation queue max out and indexing (async).  ? Created templates using Adobe experience manager 6.3.  ? Worked on AEM product suite, including CQ/AEM, CRX, CQ WCM and DAM.  ? Developed custom metadata form for assets and implemented many conditional logics in the form.  ? Has experience on Tracking messages, Emails and OOTB reports.  ? OSGi bundle containing components is created and OSGi services are accessed from AEM components.  ? Designed, test and development environments and migrated workflows from one environment to other.  ? Used JQuery, Angular JS to provide services to different components of portal.  ? Managed entire campaign management environment.  ? Configure and implement Adobe Campaign solutions including web forms.  ? Create Target Cell Spreadsheets for campaign execution. Create and use flowchart templates as well as strategic segments.  ? Integrated Campaigns with AEM in order to manage email delivery content and forms directly in Adobe Experience Manager (AEM).  ? Written event handlers and servlets for processing business logic.  ? Involved in system tuning activities like workflows purging, custom loggers and url shortening configurations.  ? Developed User- Interface screens involving Servlets, JSP, JavaScript and XML DOM parser.  ? Developed Adobe CQ templates and reusable components.  ? Integrated with a shared globally accessible repository for shared permissions- based digital media assets using AEM DAM.  ? Manage extensive campaign quality assurance processes prior to campaign execution  ? Support communications in production; monitor existing campaigns, troubleshoot campaign and technical issues, make modifications to existing campaigns and ensure campaigns are being executed correctly.  ? Did gap analysis of the integrations and designed more optimal solution for file transfers, database archival, data migrations, configuration of Marketing data marts, response upload processes  ? Designed test and development environments and migrated flowcharts from one environment to other.  ? Development and deployment of complex marketing Campaigns through multiple channels.  ? Support the day-to- day execution of marketing activities and campaigns across multiple channels via enterprise marketing management system / processes.  ? Involved in story estimates on regular basis. Have sound knowledge in Agile Manager.  ? Involved in building, deploying the code, moving code to different environments.  Environment: Java, AEM 6.1, AEM 6.2 CQ5.6.1, CQ5 DAM, CQ Tagging, Apache Maven, JIRA, JSP, Apache HTTP Server, Servlets, RESTful API, JDBC, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, AJAX, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat 6, eclipse, AngularJS, JQuery. Sr. ServiceNow Developer Sabre - Westlake, TX October 2014 to August 2016 Assisting client implementing the MSP (Managed Service Provider) instance for Service-Nowand Domain separation for Service-Now Instances.  ? Working with client and functional requirements within Service Now.  ? Facilitating rollout of new applications and modules.  ? Assist in the definition of business requirements and provide definitions and updates of system design documentation.  ? Implement Service-Now customization including, but not limited to, Client Scripts, UI policies, UI Actions, Script Includes, Business Rules, workflow administration, report setup, anddata imports and exports.  ? ServiceNow application development; including creation and configuration of Service Catalogs, Email Notifications, Data imports and exports and Reports.  ? Experienced in the analysis, development and automation of various ITSM processes including Incident Management, Change Management, Asset Management, Service Request, Configuration Management including setup and configuration of MID Server andConfiguration Item Discovery  ? The service we also provide to clients is a semi managed service for administering their Service desks that has been implemented. This includes various administration tasks within Service desk software.  ? Created Buttons and context menus both on form and lists using UI actions  ? Designed many email templates by using html and jelly scripting and used them in notifications  ? Worked with windows team, network team and Asset team in order to check for the data collected through discovery is accurate.  ? Created new Business Rules/Script Includes/Client catalog script/Client Script.  ? Configured chat functionality for Service Desk ticketing queue  ? Created transform maps for importing CMDB data.  ? Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts  ? Imported Active Directory to Service now using data sources.  ? Created data sources and loaded the Service-Now tables with different data formats  ? Created transform maps both automatic field mapping and scripting  ? Also worked on Asset Management and loaded the data into it.  ? Integrated Fire eye tool with Service-Now using Email integration i.e. inbound actions scripting.  ? Worked on the integration of Service Now with Siebel, integrated Service Catalog and Incident module.  ? Used JMS integration to fulfill this requirement, worked on Scheduled Jobs and Mid Server Script Includes to fulfill the requirements.  Environment: Service Now, Asset Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Fire eye, HTML, Java script, CSS, CMDB ServiceNow Developer XEROR - Germantown, MD October 2013 to September 2014 Installing author/ Publishing instances.  ? Strong Understanding and experience in implementation, customization, and integration of Adobe AEM/CQ5 sites and coral ui.  ? Developed components, templates and created some workflows using the requirements in AEM 6.0.  ? Configuring replication, reverse replication agents and Dispatcher cache.  ? Experienced in creating AEM clustering and Package Creation/ installations, tree activations.  ? Developed OSGI components/services, sling Servlets, and AEM components/templates.  ? Worked on the issues like Disable Targeting and jQuery Versioning which usually arise when upgrading from CQ5.6.1 to AEM 6.0.  ? Build new Jenkins Jobs for the new AEM instances.  ? Configured Replication and Dispatcher Flush in the AEM.  ? Experience in creating author/publisher clusters with dispatchers  ? Developed CQ Templates, Components, Widgets and OSGI Bundles in the AEM instances.  ? Working with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  ? Worked with DAM Assets, Package Manager, Package Share, Replication, JCR, XPath and other AEM APIs.  ? Involved with the training of Content Authoring to the new AEM Content Authors.  ? Experience with backup & restore of CQ instance.  ? Used GIT and SVN versioning tools and Experience with Continuous Integration and Automated Test Execution and building tools such as Jenkins, Maven. CQ5 Developer ONYX PHARMACEUTICALS, INC - Thousand Oaks, CA June 2012 to September 2013 Extended foundation components to create custom CQ5 components based on requirements.  ? Developed CQ Templates and Components.  ? Experience developing UI, OSGI components in CQ5.  ? Experience developing event handling and related components in CQ5.  ? Effective use of component properties to meet the business requirements like actions, drop targets and in place editing.  ? Utilized REST, Java, Sling, CQ5, and Java script for custom Coding.  ? Experience Developing service in Events that gives JSON output for the events status& time.  ? Is working with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  ? Supported the production and maintenance and solved the Change Requests according to the requirements.  ? Designed and delivered Adobe CQ components to allow non-technical users to rapidly update and create web site content.  ? Content authoring and maintenance for test environments, including Campaigns and Segmentation.  ? Extensively designed and developed UI using custom Ext JS components.  ? Responsible for authoring and publishing websites using CQ5.  ? JIRA/Bit Bucket was used to handle the production/ET tickets and bug reporting Issue tracking tools.  ? Setup and Used maven for managing dependent software libraries (jars) required to build our application.. UI/ Web Developer Verizon Enterprise Solutions - Tampa, FL August 2010 to June 2012 Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS 2.0/4.0, Bootstrap, LESS and Sublime Text Editor.  ? Responsible for storing and retrieving user entered data to HTML session storage, hence giving user a better experience using less bandwidth and improved performance.  ? Coded in AngularJS MVC framework to build Web application for the internal use of the organization.  ? Defined new validation logic with AngularJS 2.0/4.0 for the form field validation implemented using HTML5.  ? Ported and redesigned the Lead management system using AngularJS framework implementing modular design and worked with Declarative Bindings.  ? Developed designs in securing the application using form-based authentication usingHTML, XHTML, AngularJS 2.0/4.0, JavaScript, JQuery, and CSS.  ? Responsible for creating AngularJS components like controllers, services, directives and filters to create different user data forms and implemented form validation usingAngularJS.  ? Extensively used HTML5 for audio and video playback and also Worked as a front-end web developer, Node.js and AngularJS based application  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  ? Experience in using GIT for pulling and committing the developed content from/to theGIT repository.  ? Used AngularJS service to communicate with Restful Web Services and JSON data.  ? Implemented routing and single page application using AngularJS Route Providers.  ? Implemented the JavaScript/JQuery framework such as NodeJS for MVW/MVCframework.  ? Used JQuery library function for Client side application and good knowledge on jqLite.  ? Created Responsive Layouts for multiple devices and platforms using Bootstrap.  ? Applied JavaScript with Regular Expressions for client-side form validations.  ? Experience in using so many directives and ng-grid for rendering rows and columns.  ? Wrote and maintained the tests in Jasmine testing framework, Chai that are often used in conjunction with Jasmine and Mocha.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, AngularJS 2.0/4.0, NodeJS, Bootstrap, Sublime, Yeoman, Git, Agile methodology. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (5 years), jQuery (4 years), CSS (3 years), HTML (3 years), AJAX (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information ? Programming Languages JQuery, Java, Angular Js, Jelly Script, ASP.net,Perl  ? Platform ServiceNow , HP Service Manager, SDLC  ? Web Technologies ASP .NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, XML, PHP, JSON  ? Databases Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL  ? Technologies Agile, Design Patterns, ITIL, CSP, MVC, MapReduce, Android, Scrum, Machine Learning  ? Content Management System CQ 5.6.1, CQ 5.5, AEM 6, AEM 6.1, AEM 6.2  ? Applications Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver, MS Office Suite, CMS