Sr. Web Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web Developer - Aramark - PA Philadelphia, PA • Over 11+ years of experience in the Web Applications Development using HTML CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, XML and JSON.  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process with expertise in Planning, Reviewing Specification, Documentation, Scheduling, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance of applications.  • Experience applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event - driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML.  • Good understanding and knowledge in using CSS Preprocessors LESS and SASS.  • Experience in utilizing open-source frameworks as Struts, Hibernate and Spring.  • Hands-on experience in Database programming using Oracle, MySQL and SQL.  • Experience in writing SQL queries, Procedures, Cursors and Triggers.  • Experience in developing web based applications using Google Web Toolkit (GWT)  • Good understanding of Model View Controller (MVC) Pattern.  • Strong problem analysis and resolution skills.  • Strong experience in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Experience in working in AGILE based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions.  • Excellent communication skills, has clear understanding of business procedures and ability to work as an individual and also as a part of a team.  • Highly motivated team player with zeal to learn new technologies and always believes in giving the best of efforts in challenging environments..  • Have experience in Design, Development and Deployment of Web-Applications/ J2EE applications on servers like BEA-Weblogic , and Apache Tomcat , Apache Tomcat , JBoss .  • Experience in XML APIs such as JAXP (SAX, DOM), JAXB for data binding and experience in designing the XSD schema generation.  • Used RDBMS databases systems like Oracle, SQL Server, MS Access and My SQL. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Web Developer Aramark - PA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Aug Designed and developed the family calendar with color codes for individual and group items.  • Added ability to add events and set reminders in the calendar.  • Created neat and simple screens for adding Shopping lists and To-do lists.  • Played major role in migrating the all River valley web applications source code from Microsoft Visual Source Safe (VSS) to Subversion (SVN) repositories.  • Selenium-Sikuli Integration for Distributed Remote Execution  • Provides technical assistance in identifying, evaluating and developing Agile methodologies and procedures that are efficient, effective and meet good business practice.  • Design & Development of the User Interfaces using HTML, CSS and JSP.  • Used J Query, AJAX to interact with with Java Servelet and YUI library to enhance user experience  • Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web 2.0 Ajax application • Prototyped and implemented Cloud based Service Bus on WSO2 for engaging stakeholders in the initial SOA discussions.  • Writing and Optimizing MySQL Queries and connect queries to PHP.  • Table views with custom cells were used to display the list in a card like format.  • Added ability to add commonly used recipes to the app so that anyone in the family could use that and make wonderful meal preparations.  • Create Wire frames for new capabilities with HTML5, CSS3, and Md Bootstrap Framework.  • Create Front End with Angular and Material Design for Bootstrap, for Dashboard Admin Panel and REST Communication with Back End Side.  • Added support for Ads in the free version.  • Participated and led in Scrum meetings and helped in the design and architecture of the application.  • Worked on migrating the application from Objective C to Swift.  • Used Storyboards to design the entire flow of the application according to the different use cases.  • Added ability to take pictures of the receipts to add information into the application.  • Added ability to save the expense reports as PDF or email to the concerned person.  • Worked on the web server to read email messages and convert them into receipts that can be used inside the app.  • Used the tool bar to display quick access icons to the user.  • All the expenses are displayed in a clean table view with custom table view cells.  • Created screens for displaying reports and usage statistics.  • Followed SCRUM methodology with two week sprints for efficient software development.  • Used Auto Layout to support the app in portrait and landscape modes.  • Coding, maintenance and enhancements to I Phone Application. Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic Server.  • Developed Ruby on Rails web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis.  • Develop mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library  • Helped in upgrading the application with new features based on the requirements  • Helped in resolving issues and working on customer reported bugs.  • Created wrapper classes to work with XML and JSON web services.  • Front end Development for hybrid app, using Html5, CSS3, JavaScript, J Query, and J Query Mobile.  • Consuming RESTful Services APIs, and Local Storage for Data Persistence.  • Used Apache Cordova to design web views for part of the application that was hybrid.  • UI/UX Designed in JQuery Mobile, JavaScript, JQuery for Ajax Calls, and CSS Customization.    Environment: IPhone, IPad, XCode 6.2 iOS 8, Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, and swift to swift 2, JS, AngularJS, HTML5 CSS3, Dashboards Build over Web Front End Frameworks, back end services and scrum leads.Touch, HTML5, CSS3, Jquery mobile, Backbone.js, Flash, CorelDraw, iPhone, iPad, Android, Windows Phone 7, Blackberry, Tablet Sr. UI Developer Comcast - PA July 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented WebServices and used Spring Framework.  • Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, Java Script, Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, JTA, and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules.  • Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle 10g to process the trades using PL/ SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using Struts Tiles Framework, HTML, JSP.  • Developed additional Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  • UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Enhanced the functionality of screens using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery.  • Designed and implemented the web application in Ruby on Rails, Node.js, HTML5 and JQuery from initial concept development to beta launch.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap for Virtual Infotech Inc.  • Researched future web technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, Backbone.js etc.to develop new web applications.  • Oracle is used as the persistence layer, configured and optimally indexed for searches  • Worked on Data Services implementation for the CRUD services.  • Involved in the development of SQL, PL/SQL Packages, Stored Procedures  • Working experience in Web Services using SOAP and WSDL, JSF, JSON, JQuery, JMS and Oracle coherence.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, Prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database  • Used JPA 2.0 (JDBC Framework) and Apache CXF for XML generation.  • Worked on web services SOAP and REST technologies  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Configured JMS Server setupand DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic Server.  • Developing a new Content Management System backed by subversion using java EE technologies.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Provides technical assistance in identifying, evaluating and developing Agile methodologies and procedures that are efficient, effective and meet good business practice.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML.  • Design & Development of the User Interfaces using HTML, CSS and JSP.  • Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  • Was involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  • Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Quickly learned iText and implemented to solve Hungarian Special Character Issue.  • Developed a smart rule engine for CAS that tracks, alerts, emails and generates Crystal/Jasper reports for decision-makers in a company about any customer-employee issue whenever the rule is applicable.  • Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators.  • Assisted in visualization, planning and implementation of Web 2.0 initiatives.  • Developed master JMS producer, master JMS consumer, and notification manager to implement existing interfaces and hide JMS details from existing (legacy) notification producers and consumers using J2SE DESIGN PATTERNS.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, JavaScript, JSP, Jquery, SASS, LESS, Servlet, UNIX, Linux, Oracle, JDBC, Eclipse, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Apache CXF, Clear Case, Struts, Tomcat, CRUD, JUnit, JIRA, Maven, iText, Weblogic, SVN, UML, Agile (Scrum). Software Developer W.M. Jordan Company - Richmond, VA May 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Design UI screens using JSP, CSS, Struts Framework, Flash, Java Script and HTML.  • JSON is used for serializing and deserializing data that is sent to or receive from JSP pages.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Used ANT for building the application and deployed on BEA WebLogic 8.1 Application Server.  • Developed a web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging.  • EJB components are deployed on the Web Logic Integration with MQSeries using JMS. The database was Oracle.  • Develop complex web applications in PHP, AJAX with Informix as the database to model the business logic of the company which is Supply Chain Management.  • Applying Ruby on Rails and JQuery debugged, enhanced, extended business-to-business SAP application. Provided extensive integration and functional mocks testing.  • Develop WordPress themes to meet the needs of the small business owner.  • Developed a part of the front End using Flex Parsley framework in Flex and Actionscript.  • Develop Silverlight application using Onion/PRISM Architecture.  • Developed prototypes using Flex, ActionScript, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java.  • Coding, maintenance and enhancements to iPhone Application.  • Ported an iPhone iOS application to Android to include SQLite database management and several data entry views and GUIs.  • Organized and facilitated daily stand-up meetings, reviews, retrospectives, sprint and release planning, demos and other Scrum-related meetings.  • Used web services (REST) to bridge the gap between our MS and Drupal/Wordpress technology.  • Developed UI components using ASP.NET and C#.NET.  • Developed an in house Bankruptcy Intake program in Classic ASP/ASP.NET. Program is inherited from Classic ASP Debt intake program. Used Visual Studio 2008 to develop this mix program of both Classic ASP and ASP.NET. Used vbscript, javascript, and added some new ASP.NET pages.  • Developed code for C, to secure the transaction.Wrote various C++ utilities for different flavors of UNIX servers (Sun Solaris, IBM AIX and SCO)  • Developing webkit browser based mobile app using technologies like Sencha touch, DOJO and PhoneGap  • Design, development, testing and implementation of WEB applications using Sencha touch framework.  • Developed mobile app for selling medical devices using HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, jQuery, jQTouch, and PhoneGap.  • Was involved in UI development, and Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JSTL Taglibs.  • Design is done in Panorama Style for Windows Phone 7.  • Developed applications using a combination of Java 6 with Android SDK, and Java with BlackBerry SDK • Implemented MVC design architecture using Ruby on Rails and MySQL  • Implement web service components using Apache CXF framework  • Developed Rest architecture based webservices to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Developed the application using Eclipse IDE and worked under Agile Environment.  • Maintained the business standards and the requirements in EJB and deployed them on to WebLogic Application Server.  • Administered bot Git and Subversion repositories for an enterprise code off.  • Led development team using J2EE creating web enabled invoicing system for multiple location service company in NetBeans environment using GIT-HUB version control  • Developing test suites in Selenium WebDriver (Java) with TestNG framework in Eclipse IDE for regression and sanity testing.  • Architected, Designed and developed the product using HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Javascript, Sencha, PhoneGap  • Developing web kit browser based mobile app using technologies like Sencha touch, DOJO and PhoneGap.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery  • Writing Back end scripts on Node.js/JavaScript.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, JavaScript, JSP, Jquery, SASS, LESS, Servlet, UNIX, Linux, Oracle, JDBC, Eclipse, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Apache CXF, Clear Case, Struts, Tomcat, CRUD, JUnit, JIRA, Maven, iText, Weblogic, SVN, UML, Agile (Scrum). Software Developer Cascade Star International - Seattle, WA March 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • The system was designed according to J2EE specifications. Servlets were used as a Front Controller gateway into the system. Helper classes were used to limit the business logic in the    • servlet. EJB was used to talk to the database and JSP along with HTML, XML were used to control the client view.  • Designed and added new functionality extended existing application using J2EE,XML,Ajax, Servlets, JSP.  • Studied the impact of the requirement and prepared the Requirement functional and technical documents.  • Created different batch programs to clean up tables in DB2 database.  • Worked on UNIX shell scripting to run the JAR file created for batch program.  • Used Struts framework in UI designing and validations.  • Developed Action Classes, which acts as the controller in Struts framework.  • Client side validations are done using JavaScript and server side validations are done using Struts validator framework.  • AJAX forms are created for update operations.  • Data was converted into JSON using JSP tags.  • Enhanced the existing application to meet the business requirement.  • Establishing JDBC connection using database connection pool.  • Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • Participated in the Production support and maintenance of the project.  • Created new tables in DB2 database.  • Used ClearCase version control system.  • Performed usability testing for the application using JUnit Test.    Environment: JAVA, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, Struts, Design Patterns, Eclipse, Apache tomcat server, DB2, UNIX, ClearCase, Junit Web Developer Inflectra Corporation - Silver Spring, MD January 2009 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • Created and maintained numerous business critical applications. These applications were the cornerstone of the organization and needed to be highly effective as well as very efficient.  • Developed efficiency reports for senior management.  • Developed an online task assignment application. This application is used to assign various tasks in the business process to an employee and provide relevant metrics to management.  • Developed and maintained web services to allow clients to submits orders and receive reports.  • Worked closely with various department heads throughout the SDLC.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Android, IOS, Mobile Apps, C#/VB.NET, SQL Server 2005, AJAX, Javascript, CSS, REST/SOAP, Crystal Reports, Agile, Silverlight. Java Programmer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC June 2008 to December 2008 Responsibilities:  • Created the E-Procurement/Project Management system to sell to foreign governments using ASP.NET.  • Consisted of 2 web portals.  • Government portal:  • To track the allocation of resources for projects created by the government agency and bid on by the general public.  • To reduce corruption by government officials by making the bidding and awarding process of contracts anonymous.  • Contractor portal:  • To allow all contractors an equal opportunity to win a government contract.  • Lead a team of 2 programmers, 1 graphics artist and 1 analyst through the entire development process.  • Worked closely with the QA team to develop an effective testing schedule.  • The lead technical contact for all branches of the organization. Sales, training, QA, installations, etc.    Environment: Java, Spring, Dojo, Mobile Apps, Sencha, C#/VB.NET, SQL Server 2005, JavaScript, CSS, Crystal Reports Education Bachelor's of Science Stanford University Skills C++, Design patterns, Html, Visual sourcesafe, Xml, Ajax, Css, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Tomcat, Web sphere, Weblogic, Bea, Bea weblogic, J2ee, Java, Db2, Sql, Soap, Apache Additional Information Skills / IT Skills  C++, Design patterns, Html, Visual sourcesafe, Xml, Bea, Bea weblogic, J2ee, Java, Ajax, Css, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Tomcat, Web sphere, Weblogic, Soap, Db2, Sql, Apache