Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Dealer Express Saint Louis Park, MN ? Have 5 Years of hands on experience in requirement analysis, design, development, implementation and support of full life cycle commercial applications.  ? Have 5 Years of experience on HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, JavaScript, Angular 2-6, Node JS, Express JS, TypeScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, JQuery, PHP.  ? Have working experience in geographical regions US and India.  ? Have experience in frameworks such as Bootstrap, Angular, Express JS and PHP Code Igniter.  ? Have good knowledge of Responsive web design and Git version control. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer Dealer Express December 2017 to Present RaceBox is a large web application for Horse Racing producers. It manages race registration, user profiles, race timings and results.    RaceBox is a MEAN (Mongo, Express, Angular and Node) application along with Electron as interface to capture race timings.    Roles and Responsibilities:  Angular  ? Design and Develop UI using HTML, CSS3, BootStrap.  ? Design and Develop Components and Services using Angular/TypeScript.  ? Use Socket.IO to update UI fields during concurrent updates.    Node JS  ? Design and Develop CRUD services using Node JS.  ? Design Node classes and functions to interact with Mongo DB.  ? Manage Socket.IO updates from backend.    Mongo DB  ? Design and Develop Mongo DB document objects.    Electron with Node  ? Design and Develop UI for Electron using HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap.  ? Develop Node JS classes to interact with race timer using Serial Port.  ? Develop Node JS classes to update the race timing using REST API calls.  ? Generate Executable files for windows environment using Electron.    Hardware & Software: Node JS, Angular JS 4.x, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP. Dealer Express March 2017 to Present Project Title RaceBox Developer Dealer Express March 2017 to Present AbilityWeb Management is a large web application for dealerships which allows dealers and customers both with their Ability vehicles for rental and purchase purposes.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Modify existing UI to Responsive using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Material.  ? Modify existing UI to comply with ADA standards.  ? Design and Develop reusable theme using Sass/SCSS.  ? Enhance existing application for generating/managing leads, vehicles and users.  ? Develop script to manage REST API calls between Edmunds API for vehicle conversion.  ? Customize backend CRM functionalities and DB interaction using PHP MySqli queries.  ? Develop reusable functions in JavaScript.  ? Analyze defects and provide fix.    Hardware & Software: PHP, Angular JS 1.x, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, MYSQLi, BOOTSTRAP, Material CSS, SASS/SCSS. Developer Aditya Systems April 2016 to December 2016 HoseLifeTracking is web application built for both customers and their end clients to manage every detail of the products they sell or buy with the help of QR Code, where it helps every user with the necessary particulars they need with the help of assembly number in getting reports in variety of formats.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Design and develop Responsive UI using HTML5, CSS3 and BootStrap.  ? Develop Controllers and Services using AngularJS  ? Develop Functions using JavaScript.  ? Develop AJAX calls and AngularJS HTTP Service.  ? Develop PHP pages and classes using Code Igniter.  ? Develop DB interaction using PHP Mysqli Codeigniter Queries  ? Work with team for QA Code Generation.  ? Develop reports for product in both excel and pdf format.  ? Define user roles such as Super admin, admin and user for both Manufacturers and Customers.    Hardware & Software: PHP, Code Igniter, Angular JS 1.x, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, MYSQL, BOOTSTRAP.    Project Title Document Management System (DMS). Aditya Systems February 2016 to December 2016 Developer Aditya Systems February 2016 to April 2016 This Project is for managing all documents of various type belonging to a organization used to track, manage and store documents and reduce paper.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Design and develop Responsive UI using HTML5, CSS3 and BootStrap.  ? Develop UI-router using AngularJS for Multiview navigation.  ? Develop Controllers, Custom Service, factory and Http Services using AngularJS.  ? Develop Multi document storage using AngularJS Custom Directive.  ? Develop document retrieval based on user roles, meta keywords using Filters.  ? Develop web services using Php Mysqli.  ? Work with team for document sharing and mailing from this application.  ? Direct Client interaction for requirement gathering and improvements.    Hardware & Software: AngularJS 1.x, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, AJAX, PHP, MYSQL SquadM Technologies Private Limited December 2014 to February 2016 Project Title KSNC  Organization SquadM Developer SquadM Technologies Private Limited December 2014 to February 2016 KSNC is system built to replace the existing system which includes human work and efforts. KSNC consists of process app Starting from allowing an applicant to apply and enroll to the courses till the process of getting the end report including many other intermediate operations.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Design and develop UI using HTML5, CSS.  ? Develop JQUERY AJAX Calls for required modules.  ? Design and develop Applicants, Renewals, Course, Re-Renewal, Institutions and Report Sections modules using PHP pages in Codeigniter MVC Framework.  ? Design, Develop and Generate Applicants Certificates.  ? Develop Reports and Ledgers using PHP PDF.  ? Managing Mysql DB using Phpmyadmin.  ? Deployment of application to Production Server.  ? Define user roles such as Super admin, admin and user.    Hardware & Software: PHP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, MYSQL, BOOTSTRAP.    Project Title Strategic Selling Plan (SSP).  Organization SquadM Hadoop Hbase Web Application Developer Madmurk Cloud Computing Pvt ltd November 2013 to November 2014 * Madmurk Cloud Computing Private Limited Nov 2013 - Nov 2014.    Project Title Bigdata (Hadoop) Product & Analysis  Organization Madmurk Cloud Computing Pvt ltd  Major Role Hadoop Hbase Web Application Developer  Technology Bigdata - Hadoop  Supported following modules.  ? Storage, Retrieval, connection to HDFS for huge datasets.  ? Data streaming and random data streaming from patterns to the front end.    Project Title RCOM - Business support systems  Organization Madmurk Cloud Computing Pvt ltd  Module (Supported) Huge Telecom Data Processing, Storage and Maintainence  Technology Hadoop, Hbase, Java, Javascript, Html, Css  Major Role Hadoop Hbase Web Application Developer Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University Skills Javascript (4 years), HTML (5 years), jQuery (5 years), Angular 6 (1 year), CSS (5 years), Bootstrap CSS (2 years), Node JS (1 year), PHP (5 years), MySQL (5 years), Angular 2 and above (2 years), mongo db (1 year), Express js (1 year), SQL Server, SQL