Junior Web Developer Junior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Chicago, IL Junior Web Developer with over one year experience building and maintaining websites for a small marketing company. I am very passionate about continuously learning new programming languages, frameworks and concepts. I am knowledgeable In HTML, CSS, Vanilla Javascript, and C++ as well as web frameworks like React, React-Redux, Node.JS, Express, J-query, Sass, etc. I have a basic understanding of PHP and SQL and would love to learn more and dive into app development languages(Java and Swift) as well . Work Experience Junior Web Developer Q Advertising and Design, Inc. - Chicago, IL August 2018 to May 2019 I helped design and develop websites for clients looking To establish a web presence. I helped implement e-commerce sites with a creative and friendly user interface. I also helped build pages for non-profit organizations trying to reach a wide audience with certain SEO techniques. Sales Representative Cellular Sales - Chicago, IL May 2017 to May 2018 Cellular Sales is the biggest indirect retailer for Verizon mobile. This is a sales and results oriented job and is based on meeting and exceeding goals set by the company. Being a commission based position, My duties were to articulate and be persuasive in selling devices for Verizon and Cellular Sales. Manager International House Of Pancakes - Chicago, IL May 2010 to March 2017 I ran the day to day operations. I also hired and trained new employees. I was responsible for coming with and implementing creative ways to increase revenue through limited marketing and a providing a great customer experience.I had certain benchmarks I had to hit relating to cost control. for example: the labor percentage, food cost percentage, and increase in sales compared to the year before. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Have Associates, Bachelors is in progress. - Chicago, IL May 2018 to May 2020 Highschool Lake view high school - Chicago, IL 2002 to 2006 Skills Type at 60 wpm., Knowledgeable in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript., Javascript, Angular, Front End, PHP Certifications/Licenses Illinois Real Estate Broker License