Dispatcher Dispatcher Woodbridge, VA I am results oriented, with strong communication skills, a proven work ethic, able to adapt and learn quickly, and to accommodate a flexible work schedule to get the job done. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Dispatcher Quality Services Moving - Lorton, VA August 2018 to May 2019 I worked at QSM for roughly a year. During that time, I worked as a Shift Leader and Driver. I was quickly promoted to work in the office as a Full time Dispatcher. My responsibilities included managing driver routes and assignments, handling customer service over the phone and in person, and scheduling appointments. As well as daily in-office tasks such as data entry with CMS systems and handling payment transactions and other sensitive customer information. Freelance Web Developer/Designer Self Employed - Woodbridge, VA October 2016 to August 2018 Write and edit HTML, CSS and JavaScript code. Create custom pages and content using tools such as Drupal and Adobe Software. Responsible for the graphic design and implementation of business web sites including navigation, scripting and web graphics. Develop banners and logos for corporate clients and advertising purposes. Managed, maintained and repeatedly updated websites including my former employer, GTGI. Web Developer Glogal Technologies Group Inc - Arlington, VA December 2016 to December 2017 Designed and built web sites, using multiple scripting languages, content creation and management tools, as well as writing and editing web page content. Leveraged management and development teams to prioritize needs, resolve conflicts, and develop content. Evaluated code to ensure validity and proper structure to meet industry standards and compatibility with multiple browsers, devices, and operating systems. Rideshare Driver Uber Partner Drivers - Springfield, VA October 2015 to December 2016 Independently contracted operator for multiple transportation companies, coordinated and managed personal work schedule while maintaining an outstanding driver rating. Warehouse Supervisor UPS - Springfield, VA December 2014 to September 2015 Supervised up to 15 employees to monitor accuracy and quality while loading trailers. Planned and assigned duties to maintain adequate staff for effective performance in response to fluctuating workloads. Ensured operations were organized and logistically efficient, while consistently incorporating safety and cost-reduction measures. Used leadership skills and knowledge of standard management methods, policies, and logistic readiness. Education Completed 2 Years in Visual Design & Programming Art Institute of Washington - Arlington, VA July 2012 to June 2014 Diploma C.D. Hylton High School - Manassas, VA June 2012 Skills Web Design/Development (2 years), Product Marketing (2 years), Management (2 years), Customer Service Skills (2 years), Graphic Design, Adobe, Sales Support (1 year), Dispatch, Customer Service, Trucking, Logistics