Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Charter Communications Stamford, CT • About 7+ years of professional experience on complete SDLC life cycle including Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of major system.  • Having Experience on User Interface (UI)/Front End Developer in developing web applications using HTML4/5, CSS2/3, Bootstrap, XHTML, JavaScript, TypeScript, jQuery, NodeJS, Angular JS/2/4, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Extensive experience in HTML5 and CSS3 attractive features and worked on usability, accessibility and resolved cross browser issues.  • Proficient in using Bootstrap and CSS Media Query to create Responsive Web Designs (RWD).  • Worked on JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS, Backbone.JS, React JS and used TypeScript for Angular2/4 for developing interactive web applications.  • Worked on JavaScript concepts such as Objects, Closures, Hoisting, Prototype, Callback, DOM manipulation, Prototype, Libraries.  • Extensive experience in developing model-view-controller (MVC) architecture by using AngularJS Framework to implement single page application (SPAs).  • Experienced on CSS Preprocessors like LESS, SASS and worked on different package managers like NPM, Bower and task runners like Gulp.  • Strong experience on SOAP, REST Web Services, and Applications of HTTP based RESTful APIs.  • Experienced on debugging/traffic inspecting tools like Firebug, Chrome or Safari web inspectors and worked on web servers such as JBoss, Apache Tomcat.  • Having Experience on Creating Logos, Banners, Buttons, Icons and Images using Adobe Flash, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Adobe Illustrator.  • Worked extensively with IDE's like Notepad++, Microsoft Visual Studio, Sublime text and Eclipse.  • Having good proficiency on RxJS Powered state management for Angular application inspired by Redux to achieve consistency with simplicity.  • Having good knowledge on database design and development using MySQL, SQL Queries, views, Triggers, Stored procedures, and No-SQL databases like MongoDB.  • Having strong proficiency in cloud platforms such as Azure, Amazon web services (AWS) and their services such as EC2, S3, etc.  • Proficient in writing TDD (Test Driven Development) by using test cases such as Jasmine and Karma for performing end to end Integration and Unit testing.  • Expertise in using the version control systems such as GIT and SVN, and project management tool - JIRA, and integration tool Jenkins. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Charter Communications - Stamford, CT May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on highly advanced user interface design and development using Angular2, NodeJS, JSON, HTML5 and CSS3. Developed internal and external validation code using TypeScript.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular2.  • Worked and constructed custom Angular2 Promises to handle asynchronous tasks, and created Angular2 components, interpolation, input variable, binding the click event and router Outlet.  • Developed Angular2 functionality in the application to provide two-way binding to the system.  • Reviewed customer feedback about the debugging issues, fixed bugs with HTML5 and TypeScript codes, and worked on resolving browser compatibility issues.  • Used Promises to do AJAX calls to connect front-end/back-end, and used JSON for data exchange between client and server to analyze the response of JSON to update DOM.  • Worked on updating the pages using HTML5 and CSS3 for the new look and feel of their current application pages and worked on CSS3 effects, CSS Background, CSS Border and CSS Positioning to enhance user experience as per the client requirements.  • Developed page layouts, navigations, animation buttons and icons, and Included various widgets of menu bars, side bars, headers and footer from Bootstrap framework for having a better interactive layout of the website.  • Utilized SVG, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Flash and Illustrator for the front-end development such as web pages, graphics and multimedia's.  • Involved in migration of AngularJS MVC architecture to Angular2 component-based architecture for reusability of components and faster performance.  • Worked on Angular2 to improve overall design and UI of websites and extracted data in UI for different clients using JSON format.  • Converted raw images and layouts from graphic designer into HTML/CSS themes. Expert in CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and preprocessors like SASS, LESS.  • Used CSS selectors for condition based styling and pseudo-classes to add some special effects to selectors.  • Participated in developing the website across different browsers and performed cross-browser testing.    Environment: Angularjs, Jquery, Javascript, Ajax, Json, Node.Js, React Js, Sass, Less, Html/Html5, Css/Css3, Xml, Dom, Bootstrap, Photoshop, Flash, Illustrator, Git. Web Developer CareFirst Blue Cross & Blue Shield, Maryland July 2010 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created exceptionally usable web design solutions with focus on client experience and in association with company standards protocols.  • Designed the front-end e-commerce applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, CSS, JSON, Ajax and JavaScript framework such as jQuery.  • Involved in creating HTML, and JavaScript for user-side presentation functionality, and client-side form data validation.  • Implemented pagination and sorting functionalities in different modules using jQuery plug-ins, and solved many other navigational issues.  • Hands on cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles, and fixed primary bugs for supported platforms.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application and used various controls in the GUI for the user interface.  • Worked on jQuery scripts for basic animation, and end user screen customization.  • Worked with View State to maintain data between the pages of the application.  • Worked with the project requirement team to understand the project requirement.  • Involved in the validation of completed websites for debugging and testing of code.  • Used to attend the SCRUM sessions for better development process.    Environment: Html, Css, Javascript, Jquery, Json, Ajax, Sdlc And Eclipse. Sr. UI Developer Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA February 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle(SDLC) including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  • Responsible for developing the rich prototypes and dynamic browser compatible UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, TypeScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ajax and JSON using Angular framework.  • Involved in designing CSS templates for all pages on website by working on positioning, padding, borders, margins, table, backgrounds and transitions.  • Working on AJAX for implementing dynamic Webpages where the customers data was fetched via API calls and updated to the DOM.  • Involved in developing the web UI designs based on AngularJS, Node.js and Angular4 framework with extensive use of TypeScript, JSON and Ajax.  • Used Bootstrap for creating Responsive Web Design (RWD) to fit all users and devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone, and have done data manipulations to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Designed dynamic client-side TypeScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Created the front-end web pages using Angular4, TypeScript on HTML5, CSS 3 to maintain performance.  • Worked on Angular4 Pipes, directives, routing, dependency injection, forms and Services for application functionality and used Angular4 templates which could be plugged into one HTML container, as every web page is an overlay on the Dashboard.  • Used Angular4 framework for fetching Data from the Server by offer Service to get JSON information to populate display from the server.  • Built GUI for few programs which were taking huge amounts of data from the databases like MONGODB and MS SQL in the back-end and displaying them on the client-side.  • Updated Customer claims and customer health plan pages using Bootstrap, HTML5 and CSS3 in Angular4 framework.  • GIT has been used as a version-controlling tool for tracking the changes to manage the module developments.  • Actively involved in the team on agile development process, and SCRUM to discuss the development of the application experience with JIRA task Board.  • Worked closely with other members in the team for understanding the technical requirements of the project as well as designing/developing in much better way.    Environment: Html/Html5, Css/Css3, Jquery, Javascript, Angularjs, Angular4, Bootstrap, Json, Xml, Restful Web Services, Node.Js, Responsive Web Design, Ajax, Agile, Svn, Mongodb, Internet Explorer, Google Chrome. UI Developer Santander Bank - Boston, MA March 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked as a UI Developer, developed two different Web-based applications in a team and managed the developing of Account landing page layout, Account details, Login page using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS and NodeJS.  • Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, XHTML and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Worked and improvised existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance and layout of application.  • Involved in designing Single Page Application using AngularJS for applying Credit Card and user account details page using routers, controllers and directives to build the functionality and UI behavior.  • Modified existing Restful web services to support SPA model data needs in JSON format.  • Used custom Node.js proxy used to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete, and to proxy requests to finished client APIs, handling authentication, custom headers, virtual application root, etc.  • Collected and projected the fetched data into respective fields (textboxes, checkboxes, drop-down) using JSON objects.  • Experience using jQuery, Bootstrap plugins for the Webpages and worked with complete redesigns of a daily events website and focused on improving readability, utility, and overall UI.  • Used JavaScript for implementing client-side validations in various pages like registration forms, login and Account detail forms.  • Insert into NoSQL database by get input values from the survey related data using Mongo DB.  • Used various frameworks and libraries dynamically for developing the responsive and dynamic web pages such as Node.js, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Express.js and React JS.  • Utilized React JS Virtual DOM to update the webpage for faster load time and rendering.  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine framework and Karma testing environment.  • Reviewed customer feedback about the debugging issues, fixed bugs with HTML5 and JavaScript codes.  • Managed and implemented all codes changes via SVN and used Agile methodology and SCRUM for software development.    Environment: Html5, Css3, Javascript, Jquery, Ajax, Bootstrap, Node.Js, Angularjs, React Js, Backbone.Js, Express.Js, Mongodb, Svn And Agile. UI Developer Keysight Technologies - Colorado Springs, CO May 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Responsive User Interfaces (UI) and worked on Responsive web design (RWD) pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS and Node.js. Worked extensively on designing CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible.  • Modified and Re-organized parts of the system, integrated it into a sub project with MVC (Angular JS), and created views to hook up Models to the DOM to synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Split the UI logic into Model, View and Controller using Angular.js architecture.  • Worked on AJAX and JSON for data transfer between client/server, and retrieving JSON data from AJAX and manipulating it to the DOM.  • Extensively Used Bootstrap and media queries to make data components responsive, and worked on Bootstrap plugins to build rich internet application (RIA).  • Worked on extending HTML attributes with directives and binding data to HTML with expressions.  • Experience on test-driven development, continuous integration systems, and Agile software development.  • Data- Binding concepts developed with controllers, filters, directives integrated with back-end services were extensively implemented using AngularJS.  • Date picker, Tabs, Switch, Slider, Accordion, Pagination and Dialog plugins of Bootstrap are used.  • Implemented a customized CSS theme for applying styles to the webpages.  • Faster responsive web pages were created by minimizing page load through adjustments, content analysis for UI performance improvements.  • Experienced in building enterprise/commercial SAAS applications. Worked in GIT version control systems.  • Involved in daily maintenance tasks related to website such as updating contents, automated backup, update plugins, checking page speed, improving user experience, etc.  • Dealt with old browsers cross compatibility issues.    Environment: Html/Html5, Css/Css3, Javascript, Jquery, Angularjs, React Js, Bootstrap, Saas, Json, Ajax, Dynamic Html, Agile Methodology And Git. UI Developer Highmark - Pittsburgh, PA December 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with SMEs, developers and other IT teams to understand the scope of the project and functional requirements of the project to design and implement the application.  • Implemented User Friendly UI layout with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and AngularJS using JavaScript for Administrative Department.  • Utilized HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.JS, AngularJS and AJAX to create user login system which allowed customers and Administrative employee to login.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery for page functionality, modal windows to perform the client-side validations.  • Worked on JSON to get response from server to check functionality of the websites.  • Used AngularJS DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Worked on dashboard of the project which contained jQuery High charts for interactive charts on the web application.  • Created a customized automated email utilizing HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Composed and created AJAX calls to populate specific screen parts on request.  • Worked on jQuery to make dropdown menus on web pages to display specific information of a web page upon user request.  • Developed UI for user experience by adding new web features with object-oriented JavaScript AngularJS Framework.  • Analysis and implemented the process to integrate data and maintain tables like customer policy details and active products.  • Designed the images and banners as per the requirement of application using Adobe Photoshop.  • Implemented web forms as per the requirement provided by the design team.  • Participated in daily meeting for enhancing the features for the Application.    ENVIRONMENT: Html, Css, Less, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jquery, Node.Js, Json, Agile, Dom, Adobe Photoshop, Eclipse And Sublime. UI Developer Tech Data Corporation - Clearwater, FL February 2012 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created front-end template, components and prototype using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, jQuery and Ajax to support the implementation of the user interface.  • Work together with plan and development groups to build Responsive culminate models for websites and mobile UI utilizing HTML, CSS and JavaScript framework AngularJS to use on different gadgets in different conditions.  • Utilized JavaScript for adding page functionality like pop up screens, hiding elements and tooltips to the existing application, and used HTML to make dropdown menus, hover and calendar on web pages.  • Built up the idea of AngularJS modals in website pages to get user input and request.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) for developing the attractive HTML prototype of website.  • Accumulated data from API/ web services via AJAX-JSON calls and updating the DOM within the resulting area.  • Worked on Adobe Phone gap to make mobile applications using standardized web APIs for the different platforms.  • Used firebug, chrome developer tools and IE developer toolbar for troubleshooting JavaScript and code refactoring.  • Performed validation of completed sites including the debugging and testing of code.  • Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment  • Actively interact with business stakeholders to understand their needs and translate those into design and code.  • Worked closely with back-end developers to find approaches to push the limits of existing Web technology in service of making the best user experience.  • Used GIT and SVN for Version Control.    Environment: Html, Css, Javascript, Angularjs, Bootstrap, Jquery, Xml, Jquery, Json, Ajax, Svn, Git, Adobe Phonegap, Jboss And Dom. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JSON (8 years), AJAX (8 years), CSS (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies Html/5, Css/3, Xml, Xhtml, Javascript, Json, Dom, Ajax, Sass, Lass.  Frameworks Angularjs, Angular 2/4/5, Node.Js, Express.Js, Backbone.Js, Bootstrap, Jasmin, Karma.  Libraries Jquery, React Js, Redux.  Database/Application Server Mysql, Mongodb / Apache Tomcat, Jboss, Firebase.  Ide's & Editors Eclipse, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Visual Studio Code, Netbeans.  Multimedia Application Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Flash, Adobe Illustrator.  Version Control Tools Git, Svn/Subversion.  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall.