Sr. Full Stack Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Developer - American Express Phoenix, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ, US March 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Effectively worked in Agile Environment and participated in requirement gathering, analysis and design • Designed and developed the UI layouts and front-end programming for web application that matches the wireframes using the latest HTML5, CSS3 and AngularJS.  • Optimized the performance of application using AngularJS 2.0 Lazy Loading and Ahead of Time Compilation.  • Used Typescript and component-based programming to create less dependent and faster entities in Angular 2.0.  • Developed and maintained the core API framework used for internal applications using Java.  • Used technologies like ECMAScript, JavaScript, Babel, angular, JSon to create custom pages.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture.  • Performed Unit testing of the reports using JUnit testing.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSP • Utilize the latest OOP design patterns and ECMAScript.  • Used new CSS3 features like multi-column layout, gradients and web fonts, transform and transpose and media.  • Used AngularJS 2.0 Reactive forms to implement complex forms and performed the validations using form Builder.  • Custom NodeJS proxy used to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete and deployed in local Express JS server.  • Used twitter Bootstrap for creating responsive web design for varying screen sizes and devices.  • Created various MongoDB collections and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the application.  • Created custom directives in AngularJS2.0for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads) • Used filters while coding in AngularJS2.0.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js, and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web application.  • Good experience in implementing MVC frameworks like Angular for AJAX data calls using the $http service.  • Worked on all the latest Angular concepts like creating custom directives, components, services, $http service, factory's, $watch and $apply etc.  • Worked on consuming JSON and XML object creation, parsing on both clients as well as server side.  • Worked with the SASS/SCSS pre-processor to simplify writing the CSS styling.  • Used JS and Java to perform server-side backend operations. And updated legacy Dojo code.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows and Mac and debugged using tools like Firebug.  • Created and Consumes Restful services API for large file upload without buffering or consuming the memory on client and server.  • Used Hibernate framework in the data access layer to access and update information in Oracle Database.  • Worked with the Gulp tool in building the project, also worked in creating the gulpfile.js for managing the build operations.  • Used NODE Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules and used it to install useful tools such as Grunt, Express.  • Performed unit testing using the open source Karma/Jasmine framework.  • Used JIRA as a tool for project tracking and management where we update the daily tasks performed.    Environment: Java, Spring, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS/SCSS, JavaScript, ECMAScript, Angular 2.0, Angular 4.0, NodeJS, Ember JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Web Storm IDE, Kafka, Dojo, Gulp, GIT, Karma, Jasmine Sr. UI Developer/ Mean Stack Farmers Insurance - San Diego, CA, US February 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities: • Effectively involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  • Participated in the team on agile development cycle, followed SCRUM methodology.  • Extensively used Angular.js UI (Angular.js Bootstrap) for ng-grid, and UI components.  • Extensive experience using Bootstrap for layout and writing media queries for RWD.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Developed multiple POC's to create an interface between Backend to Frontend by using MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS and Node.JS • Responsible for creating RESFUL web services to serve data to the front-end application in JSON format.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular.  • Worked on Mongo DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Used CSS Pre-processors SASS and LESS with JavaScript task runners like Grunt and Gulp.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries for Database CRUD Operations and verified the Data with the Production, Acceptance and Integration.  • Extensively used Grunt and Gulp as an associate to Node JS to establish the connectivity between database and client.  • Used the Java API to load the data into Cassandra Clusters • Used Ember JS framework for creating single page applications.  • Extensively used Debugging JavaScript using Chrome developer Toolbar.  • Developed the UI with extensive use of JavaScript, JSON and Ajax, Coordinated with Interface Design Architects for meeting accessibility standards at code level.  • Implemented the Node JS server-side code with Express JS to interact with MongoDB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose and deployed to the web logic server.  • Wrote JQuery functions while implementing various UI Views across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application).  • Used Jenkins as Continuous Integration Tool.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application, strictly followed W3C standard.  • Updated the website from time to time for special Requirements.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, ECMAScript, JQuery, MongoDB, Cassandra, AJAX JSON, AngularJS, BackboneJS, EmberJS, Bootstrap, Responsive design, Grunt, Node.js, NP Java UI Developer Humana Health Care - Dallas, TX, US May 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities: • Developed the front-end by doing hands-on coding using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS. Leverage knowledge of W3C standards, cross-browser development techniques.  • Collaborate with Build Team to integrate HTMLs, front-end code with the backend technology and portal framework, to ensure the UX / UI is implemented.  • Coordinated with BA team and conducted several feedbacks from different healthcare organizations for implementing a better user friendly and interactive website for easy access.  • Developed HTML templates with help of handlebars. Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) Design Pattern using AngularJS.  • Developed reusable components with AngularJS custom directives.  • Used Dependency Injection from AngularJS factory and services.  • Good knowledge on AngularJS MVC.  • Used routing schemes to develop single page applications (SPAs) using AngularJS route. Used Marionette to compose rich layouts, show sorted lists. Used CSS basics, CSS 3 media queries, CSS 3 pseudo classes.  • Implemented User Interface and integrated with backend code, Node.JS as server-side technology.  • Implemented Hibernate in the data access object layer to access and update information in the Oracle Database.  • Used MEAN (Express, Angular, Node) Stack. Worked on Responsive Web Design to make website Responsive for Desktop, mobile and Tablets using Bootstrap and Media Queries.  • Utilized JavaScript and jQuery to improve the overall design and UI of campaign websites.  • Extracted data in UI for different clients using JSON format. Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Implemented AJAX, JSON, and Java script to create interactive web screens.  • Utilized Agile Methodologies (Scrum) to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Adopted a cross browser and cross platform approach to make the website's most versatile and supportive.  • Followed agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development TTD and scrum status meetings.  • Debugging and testing done with Google chrome developer tools and Firebug.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript (Libraries: jQuery), Hibernate, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Handlebars, Marionette, MS Access, Adobe Flash, MS Office, IE, Firefox, Chrome Front End Web Developer Nike - Seattle, WA, US March 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities: • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries to manipulate the events and other interactive features (Dynamic functionality) • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects Used AJAX to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Converted wireframes into html.  • Coded extensively in jQuery with Bootstrap to make rich internet web pages and created custom date picker on the website.  • Developed complex, usable, attractive and cross-browser web interfaces that account for speed, file size, readability and accessibility.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers Involved in team discussions when implementing new features in the project.  • Implemented page designs in standard-complaint dynamic HTML and CSS.  • Developed the Front-End User Interface using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Created navigation lists using list elements in HTML.  • Good knowledge of debugging JavaScript and html code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome JavaScript debugger.  • Created form validations with JavaScript. Provided insight on HTML and CSS standards.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Firefox Firebug, Eclipse, AJAX, JSON, XML, Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, Windows UI/ Web Developer Capital Markets Placeme - New York, NY, US December 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities: • Involved in software coding, testing, and debugging for web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines • Designed by analyzing all the system architecture, including hardware and software requirements that are needed for the functional implementation.  • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript • Developed by using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Fusion tables • Developed front end using Java Script, HTML, CSS • Provided production support for the project and carried out the required changes • Wrote SQL Queries to interact with MySQL database.  • Developed UI for responses from API's for third party integration (JSON file format) • Applied data visualization by dynamic graphs & charts with data fetched form JSON objects.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Eclipse, XML, Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, Windows Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (6 years), Bootstrap (6 years), JavaScript (8 years), JQuery (6 years), JSon (8 years) Additional Information • IT Professional with 8+ years of experience in developing web pages and user interfaces using HTML5, DOM, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Java/J2EE, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2.  • 0, Angular4.0, React JS, Webpack, AJAX, JSON.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle and Software Development methodologies like Agile, Waterfall etc.  • Proficient on latest JavaScript frameworks like NodeJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, Express JS, and Bootstrap. Implemented multiple web applications using MEAN Stack development.  • Good knowledge on Angular 4.0 Concepts.  • Expert in Node.js Web UI and REST API development in JavaScript.  • Excellent working knowledge on different versions of browsers like IE, Mozilla Firefox, Opera and chrome.  • Good experience of NoSQL on MongoDB and Spring-data-mongo db.  • Extensive experience in Database design and development that involves ER Modelling, Relational Database Schema, writing queries using SQL.  • Valuable knowledge on development of web and enterprise-level applications using JDBC, spring, Hibernate.  • Experience in designing and developing web-centric applications using HTML/DHTML, XML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, GITHUB.  • Experience with Object-oriented programming and Object-oriented design.  • Good knowledge on implementation on User Centered Design (UCD) methodologies.  • Experience with Browser testing, knowledge of cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) using XML, JSON.  • Practical knowledge in using ECMASCRIPT 6 (ES6) and JavaScript Syntax Extension (JSX) with ReactJS.  • Experience in programming and management in LINUX and UNIX environments.  • Experience in UNIX commands to narrow down PROD issue considering the log files.  • Experience in software testing with Jasmine frameworks like Karma and Protractor.  • Effective communication, collaboration & team building skills with ability on grasping new technical concepts.    Technical Competencies:    Web Tools &Frameworks: HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, DOM, JavaScript, Typescript, ECMAScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2.0, BackboneJS, AJAX, JSON, ExpressJS, NodeJS, ReactJS, Ember JS, Polymer JS  Languages: C, C++, Java, J2EE  IDE & Tools: Eclipse, Visual Studio, Web Storm, Brackets, Sublime Text  Source Control: SVN, Git  Databases: Oracle 11g, SQL, NOSQL, MySQL, Mongo DB, MS Access  Web Servers: HTTP Web Server, NodeJS, Apache Tomcat, REST, SOAP, HTTP    Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, UNIX, MAC OS  Testing Tools: Quality center 11.0, Junit, Load runner, Jasmine, Karma, and Protractor