Product Manager Product Manager Product Manager - Ge Aviation Cincinnati, OH Visionary leader bringing over 10 years of experience in establishing operational optimization across diverse  industries in both national and international operations. Recognized for talents in strategy development and  providing corporate vision. Converts strategic plans into tactical reality through guiding companies in  establishing themselves as viable business. Devises and implements new programs and initiates successful  processes to produce new product with maximum revenue.  Diversified background in operations and engineering management; distinguished for an  entrepreneurial mindset, creative problem solving, cross-functional teams and a bottom-line orientation.  Offers innovative solutions to operational challenges and leverages decisiveness to implement  solutions while minimizing risk and maximizing performance.  Expert in transforming strategic plans into tactical initiatives for national and international programs.  Motivator and coach combining business acumen with analytical depth to align operational  efficiencies with corporate goals. Work Experience Product Manager Ge Aviation 2019 to Present Worked with team on enterprise level web application for internal use of GE Aviation Employees. Led team on multiple projects, working as the peer between testers, developers and management.  Determined product needs by specifying the research needed to obtain market information.  Recommended the nature and scope of present and future projects by reviewing product specifications and requirements,.  Led release of new applications by analyzing proposed product requirements and product development  programs; preparing return-on-investment analyses; establishing time schedules with engineering and manufacturing.  Led team in developing applications using Java, Python, HTML, CSS, SCSS, Bootstrap and AngularJS for front-end. Back-end uses mySQL.  Researched and led team in implementing new Javascript plugins to display big data.  Provided viable services with application team and internal users to better develop UI/ UX of application.  Worked with Spotfire to analyze and display data. Founder Prominence Network 2009 to 2019 Turned entrepreneurial vision into reality by building an innovative business focused on the research and development of new technology applications, websites and other online/ marketing services. Defined strategy  across all core business functions including product development, quality, sales and marketing along with investor relations. Ambitiously took on projects including website and application development/ design, SEO  (Search Engine Optimization), Social Media management, accomplishing many major website and application  builds.  Provided commercially viable online services through astute stewardship of R&D efforts through cross- functional internal and external teams.  Created multi-year business plans and budgets and provided comprehensive analysis of operational  growth and revenue projections.  Directed management and cultivated close and productive relationships with partners through effective  communication, establishing shared understanding and commitment to expectations.  Lead the development and implementation of many websites, web applications and SEO projects for enterprise level and small business clients.  Portfolio/ Notable Projects    GE Avaiation - Internal Web Application relating to big data.  Massage Envy - Internal Web Application, business to business E-Commerce.  Advanced Auto Parts - Internal Web Application, business to business E-Commerce.  Rue21 - Internal Web Application, business to business E-Commerce.  Carl's Jr. - Internal Web Application, business to business E-Commerce.  Cle De Peau Beauty - E-Commerce website built with Salesforce. (https://www.cledepeaubeaute.com/)  Cole Haan - E-Commerce website built with Salesforce. (https://www.colehaan.com/)  Kat Von D Beauty - E-Commerce website built with Salesforce. (https://www.katvondbeauty.com/)  Coldwater Creek - E-Commerce website built with Salesforce. (https://www.coldwatercreek.com/)  The Fire Theft Project - iOS Application. (https://www.thefiretheftproject.com/)  *These are only some of the projects I have worked on. Can provide a more complete list if required. I have  listed these because they are some of the larger corporate clients I have worked with.  www.cotyclark.com Project Manager KDM P.O.P. Solutions Group 2017 to 2018 Developed a test execution plan, based on the required documents. Carried out detailed requirements  analysis for automation testing and suggest automation approach for the project. Coordinated the test  activities and deliverables with the client. Working extensively with .NET and PHP to make large amounts of API calls. Created the custom report for the automation requirement. Worked for multiple clients (Massage  Envy, Advanced Auto Parts, Carl's Jr., Rue 21) and multiple internal projects. Worked in an enterprise level  agile work environment working directly with testers, developers and C.I.O.  Developed applications using Java, PHP HTML, CSS, SASS, Bootstrap, Knockout.js and AngularJS for front- end.  Researched and lead team in implementing new versions of AngularJS to replace older Knockout.js  versions.  Lead team in implement and converting .NET API calls into PHP and managing intergrations between multiple internal applications.  Provided viable services with application team and internal users to better develop UI/ UX of application.  Worked as primary resource to integrate both Front-end and Back-end development as well as communications and leadership between multiple teams. Web Application Developer Lead - UX/ UI Ge Aviation 2016 to 2017 Worked as a consultant on enterprise level web application for internal use of GE Aviation Employees. Led  team on multiple projects, working as the peer between testers, developers and management.  Developed applications using Java, .NET, HTML, CSS, SASS, Bootstrap and AngularJS for front-end. Back- end uses Oracle database and Dell Boomi for cloud integration.  Researched and implemented new Javascript plugins to display big data.  Provided viable services with application team and internal users to better develop UI/ UX of application.  Worked with Spotfire to analyze and display data. Web Development Manager Powernet 2015 to 2016 Led team on multiple projects, working as the peer between testers, developers, management and marketing.  Managed all phases of testing for assigned components ensuring test plans and test cases were completed and met business requirements. Worked with development team investigating and correcting software bugs  and deficiencies based on the test results.  Created plans, specifications and reports to guide the tests and Area of Expertise Skills Summary Work  Experience techniques.  Led the execution of all types of testing, such as functional, user acceptance, security and installation  testing. E-Commerce Web Developer TradeGlobal 2014 to 2015 Worked as the peer between testers, developers, management and marketing. Managed all phases of development and testing for assigned components ensuring test plans and test cases were completed and  met business requirements. Worked with enterprise level development team investigating and correcting  software bugs and deficiencies based on the test results.  Developed large E-Commerce websites for corporate clients (Cle De Peau Beauty, Cole Haan, Kat Von D  Beauty, Coldwater Creek) using Salesforce CMS.  Led the execution of all types of testing, such as functional, user acceptance, security and installation  testing.  Worked with large team of 15+ developers as well as testers, marketing, project managers in an agile work  environment with daily scrum meetings. Associate Developer Seed Strategy 2013 to 2014 Joined team as consultant to work on web development project updating company website, associated  websites and iOS application  Coded and designed several pages of main company website using HTML, CSS, Javascript and PHP. Adobe  Photoshop and Illustrator were used for designs and images.  Researched and implemented new Javascript plugin (Lightbox) for gallery page of main website.  Worked directly with team including several directors, vice presidents, project managers, marketing and other team members.  Researched and lead implementation of touch screen game using Javascript, HTML5, and CSS3.  Produced original music for iOS game using Ableton Live 9.  Worked as primary resource to integrate both Front-end and Back-end development as well as communications and leadership between multiple teams. Education Information Technology University of Cincinnati Multimedia and Web Design Cincinnati State Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C++, Git, Gradle, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Json, Php, Codeigniter, Python, Swift, Angularjs, Html5, Sass, Css, Dns Links http://linkedin.com/in/coty-clark Additional Information Core Competencies    Strategic Transformations Lead  National / Global Operations  Program Development  Project Management  New Business Development  Transition / Change Management  Continuous Improvement  Strategic Partnership Relations  Business Process Reengineering  Supply Chain Management  New Product Development  Team Building & Training  Core Process Development    Computer Skills and Expertise    Languages/ Frameworks  HTML - HTML5, CSS - CSS3, LESS, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS  (2,4,5,6), Node.JS, React, Bootstrap, Semantic UI, Java, Spring, Spring  Boot (Gradle, Maven), JSON, C, C++, Swift (1, 2, 3, 4), Kotlin .NET, PHP,  Python, SQL, DNS, Zend, CodeIgniter    Software  Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Premiere  Pro, After Effects, Media Encoder, XD, Animate, Fireworks, InDesign),  Postman, Spotfire, MS Office, Apple iWorks, Intellij IDEA, Netbeans,  Eclipse, Visual Studio, FileZilla (FTP), Unity, etc.    CMS Systems/ E-Commerce  WordPress, Demandware (Salesforce), Big Commerce, WooCommerce,  Magento, Shopify Plus, Kentico, Drupal, Headless, Contentful, Joomla,  Bolt, Orchard & full custom built    Team Collaboration  Team Foundation Server, Git, GitHub, VPN, Remote Desktop, Source  Control Abilities    Social/ User Interation  Social Integration, API, Google Analytics, Data Analysis