Culinary Assistant Culinary Assistant Facilities Operations Specialist Torrance, CA Work Experience Culinary Assistant State of California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation - Chino, CA April 2017 to October 2018 • Assisted in serving dinner to over 1000 clients daily.  • Cleaned large facility kitchen according to health codes daily.  • Prepared meals for hospital patients and loaded meals for transportation to outside facilities. Facilities Operations Assistant KING HARBOR YACHT CLUB - Redondo Beach, CA April 2008 to May 2010 General maintenance and cleaning of club, which included duties such as:  • Cleaning of dining room, lounge, kitchen to Dept. Of Public Health standards, bar, boatyards, showers and restrooms.  • Performed repairs and maintenance on interior and exterior of building, including wood, drywall, plaster, concrete, paint and metal.  • Performed repairs on locks, doors, gates, furniture, appliances and maintenance equipment.  • Outside grounds maintenance.  • Receiving and storage of food and alcohol deliveries. Web Designer/ Developer Ratvision.com - Lomita, CA April 2007 to April 2008 Responsible for website content, design and programming using a variety of software including  Photoshop and Jomsocial.  • Developed and maintained the most comprehensive skateboarding events calendar online.  • Create content articles on related subjects including product reviews, professional profiles and technical reports. Facilities Operations Assistant CITY OF TORRANCE - Torrance - Torrance, CA May 2005 to May 2007 Building maintenance of facilities and offices of the Cultural Arts Center and city yard which included  such duties as:  • Special Events Coordinator - set up tables, stages, dance floors, audio/visual equipment and lighting, for private and public events.  • Worked with event planners to ensure set up of events were according to plans.  • Worked in a supervisory role with a small crew to complete scheduled work orders and routine  maintenance.  • General cleaning of facilities such as trash disposal, sweeping, mopping, stripping and waxing floors  using powered machinery.  • Conducted minor repairs and adjustments to various facilities and equipment.  • Operated fork lift to move palletized loads.  • Conducted weekly meetings with Senior Management. Education High school or equivalent South High School - Torrance, CA None El Camino College - Torrance, CA Skills Shipping, Cashier, Customer service, Stocking, Forklift, Building maintenance, Maintenance, Web design, Security, Microsoft office, Facilities management Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mr-joel-kelly Additional Information Skills    Microsoft Office (10+ years), Forklift Operator (Less than 1 year), Customer Service (10+ years),  Cashier (3 years), Stocking (5 years), Security (2 years), Food Preparation (3 years), Shipping And  Receiving (2 years), Building Maintenance (4 years), Event Management (1 year), Web Design (4  years), Morticians Assistance (1 year), Sales (2 years), Management (2 years), Facilities Management  (3 years)