Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Developer Metairie, LA Addy Award winning front end web developer with 8+ years of well-rounded experience. Knowledgable with all stages from design to launch of responsive websites. Well-versed in HTML, CSS, SCSS, and PHP. Background in WordPress development including building of custom WordPress themes and plugins. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Web Developer Imaginal Marketing Group - New Orleans, LA August 2016 to Present • Trained new hires in internal functions/processes as well as provided guidance in project development and skills.   • Carry out quality assurance tests.   • Developed custom WordPress themes and plugins.   • Answered Help Desk calls to assist clients with technical issues.   • Created hosting accounts for client websites.   • Worked with project managers and graphic designers to manage projects and review project proposals.  Graphic Designer / Web Developer Freelance - New Orleans, LA July 2011 to Present • Designed collateral for both print and web.   • Coded custom html email campaigns.   • Developed responsive websites.  Graphic Designer / Web Developer Imaginal Marketing Group - New Orleans, LA August 2014 to August 2016 • Designed collateral for both print and web.   • Coded custom html email campaigns.   • Developed templated responsive websites.   • Manged DNS / Hosting records to launch websites.  Graphic Designer Imaginal Marketing Group - New Orleans, LA December 2010 to July 2011 • Designed websites and email campaigns.   • Designed collateral for print; such as brochures, menus, logos, business cards, etc.  Education Bachelor's in Graphic Design Southeastern Louisiana University - Hammond, LA December 2010 Skills Wordpress (5 years), HTML (8 years), CSS (8 years), PHP (7 years), JQuery (5 years), SCSS (2 years), DNS (8 years), MySQL (8 years), Adobe Creative Cloud (8 years) Awards 2018 Interactive Developer of the Year 2019-02 Awarded by the Ad Club of New Orleans