Sr PHP/Drupal Developer Sr PHP/Drupal <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr PHP/Drupal Developer - Nutrien Los Angeles, CA • Around 7 years of experience in PHP, LAMP, WAMP, Drupal, WordPress, Symfony, Laravel, CodeIgniter, CakePHP Frameworks.  • Extensively used JavaScript, JQuery and Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) technologies to build dynamic web contents with high performance.  • Proficient in developing websites and web applications using PHP, MySQL, HTML 4.01/5, XML, CSS, Java Script, JSON, XHTML, JQuery&AJAX.  • Strong knowledge in using Object Oriented Programming concepts as well as full working knowledge of DOM.  • Extensive working experience with Content Management Tools such as Drupal6 and Drupal7, Joomla, WordPress and Magento.  • Excellent work done in writing queries, stored procedures, triggers and functions in MySQL, SQLServer, Oracle, DB2 etc.  • Solid experience with UNIX/Linux, MVC, Subversion, CVS, Git, CakePHP, CodeIgniter, Symfony Framework, and LAMP toolset.  • Familiarity with large multi-server Drupal environments, administration, and integration with various third-party sites with open APIs.  • Experience in content management systems like Drupal, WordPress to perfectly suit the client's requirements.  • Expertise in Photoshop, and IDEs like Eclipse, Dream Weaver, PHP Storm.  • Extensive Experience in working on Manual Testing Methodologies like Agile-SCRUM, Black Box, White Box, Waterfall Methodology and Spiral Methodology.  • Extensive Experience in command line tools like Drush, Drupal Console and Composer.  • Strong Analytical, Problem Solving and debugging skills with excellent understanding of system development metrics, techniques and tools.  • Working experience with MySQL, which includes configuration, query optimization, full-text search indexing and de-normalization Expert in handling the administration of MySQL database using PHPMyAdmin.  • Experience programming solutions based on the AngularJs, BootstrapJs, ReactJs, BackboneJs and KnockoutJs.  • Experience in developing projects that involve JBoss, JSON, AJAX, JavaScript, and REST.  • Solid experience with Model View Controller (MVC) architecture based Web Application Development.  • Solid experience with security aspects of website such as SQL injections etc.  • Solid experience in Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) design, programming, normalization and security administration with MySQL, Oracle11g  • Experience in custom module / plugin development for Drupal and Wordpress.  • Familiar and working experience with NoSQL Database Design, Analysis and Development like MongoDB.  • Worked with Ubuntu server / Linux command line. Experience with integrating APIs - Google Analytics, Google Maps etc.  • Experience in web and mobile testing using emulators, browser like safari, chrome, Firefox & IE 9.  • Experience on Installation, Integration and Configuration of third party tools, Content Management System (CODEIGNITER, Smarty, Drupal, Wordpress, Laravel, Symfony).  • Excellent troubleshooting & problem solving skills with Client-Server Applications & Web Application.  • Good team player with excellent communicative, interpersonal, intuitive, analytical and leadership skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr PHP/Drupal Developer Nutrien - Loveland, CO January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developing PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS ecommerce application pages according to project requirements.  • Create custom Drupal modules using PHP, MySQL and JavaScript and configure required contributed Modules.  • Developing responsive theme using HTML, JQuery, JSON, CSS, and SASS to support devices.  • Migration of Drupal 6 to 7 version and Involved in developing new features as enhancements.  • Carried out extensive verification and testing in order to set MySQL database free from SQL injections throughout course of database development and management.  • Developed various sections using AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Velocity, AJAX, JSON and Spring web service  • Worked on UNIX/Linux, MVC, Subversion, CVS, Git, Zend, CakePHP, CodeIgniter Framework, Wordpress, and LAMP toolset.  • Build AJAX pages using PHP to display current server time  • Involved in the development using JQuery and PHP and designed applications in AJAX with rich user interfaces.  • Enhanced Bash scripts (limited availability of non-core Perl modules) to gather data from multiple SQL sources.  • Developed a bash script to automate the process of starting a new developer to using Docker Containers.  • Development experience with Zend, NetBeans, Notepad++, JEdit  • Modification and customization of the Drupal and WordPress themes.  • Expert PHP Development utilizing Zend, CakePHP, CodeIgniter and Symphony frameworks  • Worked with MySQL which includes configuration, query optimization, full-text search indexing and  • De-normalization Expert in handling the administration of MySQL database using PHPMyAdmin.  • Developed and design security token for in order to verify only valid users can request to API.  • Developed new modules call schedule by using JQuery full calendar and AJAX for front-end and back end using  • Worked on Stack ZendPHP, Apache Web Server, SVN, Oracle, JavaScript, JQuery  • Helped team-mates in and India with Bash, SQL, and troubleshooting, daily Scrum conference calls.  • Worked on HTML5/CSS and JQuery in a Drupal based CMS environment  • Performed image/graphic slicing and optimization using Adobe Photoshop.  • Used JIRA, Stash, Bamboo, Confluence Project development tools  • Excellent work done in writing queries, stored procedures, triggers and functions in SQLServer, Oracle, DB2 etc.  Environment:  PHP, HTML 5, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, MySQL, JQuery, Windows, Apache, MVC Frame Work, CSS, Angular, Docker Containers, Drupal 7, Laravel, WordPress. Sr PHP/Drupal Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield - Jacksonville, FL December 2015 to December 2017 Description: Integrated a Broad Casting system to display Content Videos  Responsibilities:  • Used all aspects of MySQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), Symfony Framework in Aquia Dev Desktop 2 environment.  • Developing PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS and Node.Js media application modules according to project requirements.  • Developed Custom Module Development using Drupal 8. Used Jenkins for continues integration and Jira for Agile System.  • Using two kind of database Oracle, MySQL. Using Ossapi and ASI web service to connect with client directly.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by plugins or feeds under PHP, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery Technology.  • Modifying PHP, HTML, CSS, Java Script, and JQuery according to project requirements.  • As a developer involved in design and developing websites using PHP, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML4/5, CSS3 and MySQL.  • Used on Linux platform (LAMP) CMS, MySQL, REST web services, Git repository for this project  • Worked with AWS (Amazon Web Services) to make API calls inside Drupal modules according to the project requirement.  • Worked Extensively on AWS S3 bucket and SNS (Simple Notification Service).  • Maintaining User groups with Drupal CMS.  • Worked on Database Caching in Drupal 8.  • Worked on customizing modules, themes using API's and core Drupal modules.  • Worked on Drupal Crontab to make some jobs run on a particular schedule.  • Used SMTP mail class of PHP for the users to send mail with suggestions. Extensive use of PHP Mailer class.  • Developed/Design the application using WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL5, and PHP) architecture using Laravel Framework  • Worked with Symfony, Zend design patterns like singleton pattern, registry pattern and model -view-controller pattern in Zend framework  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Developed user interface using PHP, Symfony, Laravel, Bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, HTML, CSS.  • Developed Configurable shims for modular JavaScript. Displayed good UX  • Create find wish list functionality provides unique responses when an invalid user name is submitted to the application.  • Worked with the Database Schema design and normalization for database accessed by the procedural PHP pages.  • Expertise in Continues Integration practices with Jenkins, JIRA and Bash.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, and CSS, JQuery other libraries  • Worked with integrating search engine optimization (SEO) functionality within an MVC framework using constantly evolving legitimate techniques to improve website ranking in the major Search Engines.  Environment:  PHP, Drupal 8, HTML5, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, CSS3, MYSQL, Photoshop, Adobe Flash Professional, Report Builder, Ubuntu 12.04, Linux, PHP Storm, Macromedia, DOM, Agile, LAMP, Symfony, Laravel, My SQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, Jenkins. PHP Developer Sanofi - Bridgewater, NJ September 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designing webpage's in HTML, DHTML using CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed and implemented search feature using PHP 5 and AJAX.  • Worked with views and themes in Word Press.  • Creation of menus, pages, templates, blocks in Word Press.  • Development and continues integration of Newsletter Module.  • Drupal module development, both contributed and non-contributed.  • Active participation for Requirement Gathering, Analysing the project and for designing the project.  • Developed customize content management system for administrator according to project specification.  • Deeply involved in database design, site architecture, HTML, CSS, J query, AJAX and other tools and technique to make site more attractive.  • Provide functional and technical support and guidance for the development of the Websites based on PHP - Word Press, MySQL.  • Implementation of JavaScript code for validation and authentication.  • Active participation in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements definition, design, programming / testing and implementation of major systems.  Environment:  PHP 5, Word Press, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, CSS, MYSQL, HTML/XHTML, CSS, JQuery, MySQL Apache 2.x, Linux, APC 3.x, Drupal, PHP Template, AJAX, JavaScript. PHP Developer Johnson & Johnson - New Brunswick, NJ October 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created the User Management for different clients.  • Created User Interfaces for different users.  • Created the initial design to determine the look and feel of the website.  • Developed applications in PHP to aid in the printing and reporting of lead generation for clients.  • Developed the secured server user and admin accounts for secured web access.  • Adapted layouts from graphic artists to internet pages using HTML/CSS.  • Use of PHP to develop website functionality.  • Used PHP / MySQL in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL and PHP) environment for creating dynamic data driven and interactive web pages.  • Responsible for designing and developing the new screens.  • Expert in PHP session variables and cookies implementation.  • Expert in PHP connectivity backend files or database.  • Used CSS, HTML, and JavaScriptfor developing rich user interface.  • Implemented AJAX in front-end.  • Also worked with a team for designing the payroll form for the employee using Drupal, CSS.  • Developed the front end using PHP, HTML/DHTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Created data entry applications to add/edit/delete data from online database.  • Deployed application software on Linux Server.  • Strongly used LAMP(Linux-Apache-MySQL-PHP) platform.  • Maintained and updated web applications written in object oriented PHP accessing MySQL databases.  Environment:  PHP5, MySQL, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, MS Excel, Window XP, MSWord, Microsoft Visio, Drupal 6.x , LAMP, JQuery, SQLyog, AJAX, Dreamweaver CS3, Notepad++. Web Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC June 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing interactive web applications using a dynamic scripting language like PHP, Ruby, and Python& Perl.  • Managed front end and applications for Tomcat and Apache web servers to support MySQL database  • Used Linux command line environment and other tools related to the LAMP stack.  • Worked on their own CMS which is based on PHP.  • Worked on Extensible MVC implementation supporting layouts and PHP-based templates by default and accessing properties on OOPS with Zend &Laravel framework.  • Used PHP MyAdmin to handle the administration of MYSQL over the World Wide Web.  • Created HTML5 and CSS from Photoshop mockups.  • I learned scalability and core OOPs concepts of PHP.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery Scripting.  • Developed user interface using PHP, CodeIgniter, NOCMS, bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, HTML, CSS.  • Developed compatible User Interface functionality using JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript& other libraries.  • Modified, Improved & corrected HTML, CSS, js structure.  • Worked on Zend framework in particular creating, parsing and loading XML documents.  • Designed mockups, GUI layouts by using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, CSS floats, cross browser compatibility and CSS behaviours in CSS.  • Designed Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) and GUI layouts by using Adobe Dreamweaver CS4 and AJAX.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  Environment:  PHP, MySQL, JQuery, CSS, Zend, Joomla, Laravel,CodeIgniter, Rest Webservice, WordPress, Drupal, Amazon S3, SVN, GitHub. Education Bachelor's