ServiceNow Developer/Administrator ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Administrator ServiceNow Developer/Administrator - Carle Foundation Urbana, IL • Around 8+ years of Professional IT Experience with over 4+ years of extensive experience as ServiceNow Developer and administrator.  • Proficient in ServiceNow Administration and development of Incident, Problem Management, Knowledge Management, Reporting, Gauges, Integration with Web Services, Release Management with extensive knowledge on Content Management System.  • Worked on implementing various ServiceNow IT Services like Service Catalog Requests, Asset Management, and Configuration Management.  • Mastered in ITIL/ ITSM V3 processes, Web services, Business Rules, Client Scripts, Workflows, Web Protocols.  • Expertise in Service Management and Service Delivery Process (ITIL Framework).  • Worked on REST and SOAP based Inbound/Outbound Web Services, right from consuming, testing along with integrating with ServiceNow.  • Primary focal for defects, enhancement requests, and issues for Incident and Knowledge capabilities reported by the Service Desk, Retail, and Deployment teams.  • Experience in creating Reports using Performance Analytics Module.  • Worked on scheduling the data collection jobs and create indicator sources in Performance Analytics Module.  • Experience in delivering medium to large-scale ServiceNow implementations.  • Configured new Applications in Service-Now and customized the applications using Business Rules, Client Scripts, UI Actions, UI Policies, Access Controls, using Email Notifications. External Data load using Transform maps, etc., as part of new application roll outs of Infrastructure Management.  • Worked on CMDB from the scratch.  • Worked Extensively on Configuration Management Data Base(CMDB) bulk data load, data reconciliation by using transform map and transform script.  • Provided the highest levels of service, that agents needed real time metrics and real-time collaboration mechanisms through Customer Service Management (CSM).  • Worked extensively on CSM (Customer service Management) in solving the root cause and reducing the reasons for customers calling for help.  • Working knowledge of knowledge articles, incidents, AGILE and dictionaries.  • Have recent and extensive experience & knowledge of Service Asset and Configuration Management (SACM).  • Expertise on both creating workflows for Service Catalog items in ServiceNow and implementing end-to- end Service Catalog.  • Familiarity with ServiceNow core application UI and workflow configuration, report development, integration components (e.g., LDAP, SSO, etc.).  • Exposure to ServiceNow platform tools like Discovery and Orchestration Environment.  • Automated complex tasks on remote computers quickly and reliably, with best practices every time using Orchestration.  • Worked independently and collaboratively to implement ServiceNow customization for multiple clients.  • Have outstanding problem-solving skills with good communication skills and thoughtful amount of experience to assist clients.  • Analyzed the business requirements, functional specifications in doing the GAP analysis and then transforming them to detailed design documents  • Hands on experience as a Web Designer in designing web pages using JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Strong skill set in the Service Now suite development including SOAP/REST integration, Web services, Discovery, Workflow, CMDB.  • Working knowledge of web applications, networks, protocols and email (SMTP, POP3).  • Developed excellent professional skills by working independently and as a team member to analyze the Functional/ Business requirements and to prepare test plans, test scripts, collaborated onsite teams, interacted and well managed various offshore teams.  • Excellent Interpersonal skills, Documentation Skills, problem solving ability, Communication Skills, Analytical and Programming skills. Strong team player, ability to work independently and in a team as well, ability to adapt to a rapidly changing environment, commitment towards learning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow Developer/Administrator Carle Foundation - Urbana, IL June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used ITIL practices to implement Service Now applications in phase by phase approach.  • Worked with Incident Management application, Problem Management, Change Management applications in escalating issues, logging, catering, diagnosing, resolving, monitoring, and reporting in Service Now.  • Created SLAs and participated in running SLAs and responsible for closing successfully in Service Now.  • Scheduled SLAs as per scope of tickets in Service Now.  • Written Business Rules for customizing the tool in Service Now.  • Use Service Now reporting to analyze trends of major incidents and identify a high level of root cause for the major incidents.  • Customized forms and Lists of Incident and Problem Management tables in Service Now.  • Used Transform maps to import Data to Configuration Management in Service Now.  • Maintaining product catalog to import the configuration item records in Service Now.  • Managed project and was involved in resource management.  • Co-ordinate with documenting processes used agile methodology to write the Business Requirements documents and designed Functional specifications.  • Configured and developed custom UI components for Incident and Service Catalog.  • Involved in production support for all the service now and report related issues.  • Worked on Creating Users, Roles and Groups and load the data to service-now objects using import sets on daily, weekly, monthly and on request basis.  • Responsible in building Catalog items in Service Now.  • Designed and scheduled workflows and automated the frequent occurring activities across applications in Service Now.  • Handling Production support tickets and assigning them to appropriate teams.  • Used data sources to migrate the data from excel sheets to Service-Now through transform maps.  • Worked on integrating Service Now with LDAP and SSO Implementation.  • Customized Incident/Problem/Change/Service catalog applications using Business rules, Client scripts, Workflows in Service Now.  • Worked as a developer for an End-To-End development for a re-factoring project, resolved many issues and worked on CMDB Management to resolve issues.  • On requirement provided solutions to the Asset Management team in re-building the workflow for in and out of an asset.  • Responsible in building SLA and generating Reports in Service Now.  • Defined users, groups and roles and providing accessing permissions in Service Now.  • Participated in validating Form and Table level using UI Policies in Service Now.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, CSS, and HTML5.  • Created Email notifications and scheduled in Service Now.  • Written scheduled jobs in Service Now.  • SMTP configuration for outgoing mail from Service Now instance in Service Now.  • Design solutions to enhancement requests by developing with JavaScript and implementing workflows.  Environment: Service Now Tool, JavaScript, Jelly Scripting, HTML. ServiceNow Developer/Administrator Anthem Inc - Norfolk, VA January 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked with clients to assess the current state processes and tools, responsible for defining ServiceNow requirements. Responsible for developing and configuring the ServiceNow platform.  • Worked with the stakeholders to gather requirements for the attributes required to develop Service Catalog items  • Worked on the following modules of ServiceNow like incident management, problem management, service catalog, user administration, change management, reporting and discovery.  • Worked on the creation of front end forms and associating them to Client Scripts, also experienced on UI policies including advanced customizations that require modification of UI pages/macros.  • Designed and developed technical methodologies under the ServiceNow platform.  • Loading of external data with the usage of Import Sets and Transform maps.  • Actively involved in migrating data from other applications and external databases.  • Worked on Migration of Update sets between System Environments.  • Development of additional notifications and supporting workflow to send additional data and attachments  • Development of custom applications and tables to meet client specific requirements.  • Customization of the ServiceNow system, including creating workflows.  • Building client specific service requests from customer requirements including requests, request items and tasks using workflows to manage data flows from the customer to the support teams providing the service.  • Worked on Script Customization for Service Catalog/Email Template/Workflow script.  • Worked on service now performance analytics module, involved in configuring the incident dashboard.  • Mapping the user requirements / enhancements to Service Now entities and providing estimation for end to end development of requirement.  • Created end to end websites working on Content Management System(CMS).  • Worked on CMDB and Asset management and Created Transform maps for importing CMDB data.  • Expertise on working with CMDB and configured mid server and pointed them to various ServiceNow instances.  • Worked on creating MID Server and setting up Discovery Schedule to discover the infrastructure and their relationships.  • Worked with QA team to validate the test cases whether meeting the business Requirements or not Conducted Unit Testing, interface testing, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Populating the CIs (Configuration Items) and configuring the CI relations in CMDB  • Configuring multiple forms for Asset module using Configuration Management Database.  • Creating metric reports, scheduling reports and integrating them with the third party.  • Enhancing the existing LDAP integration and modifying business rules.  • Involved in a Proof of Concept project in implementing the CMDB with Discovery and Service Watch.  • Performed mapping using ServiceNow Service Watch.  • Delivered project needs on time and within the agreed acceptance criteria in a hybrid methodology environment as they attempted to transition to an Agile Methodology.  • Participating in daily Scrum Meetings and discussions among different stakeholders.  • Responsible for setting up REST and SOAP inbound and outbound messages to integrate with ServiceNow.  Environment: ServiceNow Fuji/Geneva, Microsoft AD, JavaScript, CSS, XML, HTML, XHTML, Perl, Jelly, WSDL, LDAP, Web Services, PowerShell, SNMP. ServiceNow Developer/Administrator Adecco - Houston, TX July 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Use Administration of common platform applications: Knowledge Base, Service Catalog, Workflows, SLA's, Reporting etc.  • Core Application Administration: Policies Interactions, Application Security, Events Notifications.  • Managing client scripts, UI policies, UI actions and Data policies.  • Moving data in and out of an instance using import sets and transform maps and auto import of data into service now.  • Defining Service Level Agreements SLAs, notifications, and reports.  • Develops new applications from beginning to end.  • Involved in activities like Instance cloning, patch upgrade and post Implementation after clone.  • Created SOAP message functions and configured it to be sent through Mid server.  • Maintains existing applications. Creates code that meets system standards.  • Integration of service now with LDAP for authentication.  • Populated CMDB by importing data of IT assets into the system.  • Integration of Service Now with BMC Remedy for ticket creation on change submits.  • Subject Matter expert on Incident Management, Change Management Process and Knowledge article.  • Recommended appropriate design alternatives to be implemented based on customer constraints.  • Developed and executed plans and procedures for data conversion, customer acceptance criteria and installation strategy.  • Migration of customizations from one instance to other instance and Ongoing Maintenance.  Environment: ServiceNow [Berlin/ Calgary], Windows 8, JavaScript, Jelly Script, My SQL, XML. Remedy Developer / Administrator InfoTech - IN June 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and evaluated these requirements within ITIL framework and industry best practices.  • Installed and Configured ARS Remedy 7.5 and 7.6.04 and ITSM Suite 7.5 and 7.6.04  • Upgraded Remedy from ARS 7.5 to ARS 7.6, ITSM suite from 7.5 to 7.6 and SRM from 2.2 to 7.6.  • Customized Remedy Helpdesk Application for the support center department.  • Designed and deployed integration of SRM and Work Orders with Asset Management to create products from the software requests.  • Customized SRM per the client's requirements and Configure with respect to backend applications i.e. Incident and Work Order Management.  • Installation and Configuration of CMDB 7.6 and involved in building Creating and Running AIE Exchanges, Jobs, working with classes.  • Developed Web Services in Remedy to integrate with external systems like ESM, SMART, Web Bar and Emurald.  • Developed and supported custom built applications for approximately 500 users also maintaining a technical relationship with BMC Remedy with regards to requesting enhancements, license management, upgrades, Reporting and Bugs.  • Created Remedy Forms, Active Links, AL Guides, Filters, Filter Guides and Escalations for work flow.  • Deployed all the developed internal applications on the web using Remedy 7.x mid- tier.  • Created various Crystal Reports such as Monthly reports, SLA Reports, on Demand as well as Scheduled reports.  • Created and maintained documentations such as Functional design documents, detailed design documents, data flow diagrams, data entity relationships documents for all the internal projects.  • Involved in System test, Integration test and Regression test.  • Also, involved in generating the emails and escalating to the appropriate managers depending upon the business rules of the applications.  • Implemented external processes to read the data from the Oracle tables of legacy systems, process the records and inserts or updates to the Remedy Schemas using View and Vendor forms.  Environment: Remedy AR System 6.x, 7.x, Remedy ITSM 5.5/6.0/7.x, CMDB, Master AR Suite Tools, C, Oracle 10g,11g, Crystal Reports 9.x, Java, XML, JSP, SRM 2.2/7.6, SLM 7.x Web Developer Tag Info Solutions India, Chennai June 2010 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked as System Analyst in the project team to understand the requirements.  • Designed and developed web interfaces and business logic using JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JDBC, AJAX, Java Script, HTML and XML Technologies.  • Developed hand written HTML and CSS pages from photoshop mock ups.  • Involved in developing web pages applying best standards. Developed presentation-tier JSP pages in HTML, Implemented jQuery Data Grid control, Validation control and other Widget controls.  • Created Web forms/user interfaces with the use of Angular MVC, jQuery and JSP.  • implemented Commission, Payment and Inventory Reports Using Ajax Controls, Web forms, JavaScript and HTML.  • Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panel to manage the post back of the web page to server.  • Worked on AJAX Script Manager and Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files.  • Validated purpose, browser detection and controls, using JavaScript accordingly.  • Developed rich User Interface for the application using various AJAX controls and widgets.  • Developed Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to maintain design consistency across all web forms.  • Developed jQuery and AJAX wrapper classes for fast retrieval of data and for animations.  • Created Model objects using Entity Data Model with Entity framework using Hibernate.  • Synchronized dataset working with XPath, XML Node, XML.  • Developed Windows services to create automation processing of XML.  Environment: HTML, JSP, Struts, JDBC, JDK, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Macromedia Dreamweaver, Microsoft FrontPage and Adobe Photoshop CS3. Education Technology Andhra University 2010 Bachelor's Skills HTML (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), XML (6 years), CSS (4 years), REMEDY (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Proficiency    ITSM Tools Service Now-Fuji/Geneva/Helsinki/Istanbul, ITSM Suite, BMC Remedy  Programming Languages Java, C, C#, HTML, XML, JavaScript, SQL  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML.  Application Servers WebLogic Server, Apache, IIS 5.0, Tomcat.  Databases/ETL Oracle 10g, MySQL.  Operating Systems Windows 7, Windows 8/XP, UNIX, LINUX  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, RMI, JMS, JTA, JNDI, JMX, EJB, Applets and Swing Components.