Senior Front-End Developer Senior Front-End <span class="hl">Developer</span> I am a highly versatile Front-End Developer and Web Designer and I have created exciting dynamic Interfaces for Web and Software Applications Las Vegas, NV I am a highly versatile Front-End Developer and Web Designer and I have created exciting dynamic Interfaces for Web and Software Applications, majorly focusing on WordPress Front-End Development in recent years and UI/UX Analysis; familiar with PHP, Apache, MySQL/PostgreSQL, jQuery, KnockoutJS, Angular, ReactJS, ASP.Net, and C#.    Has 9 years of well-rounded experience in Front-End Development and Web Design. An Innovative UI Designer who produces dynamic visuals for web and digital projects. Specialises in WordPress Development building from ‘barebones’ to customize templates from the ground up and a master of building websites with a mobile-first responsive design mentality. A team leader and a team player who works on AGILE/SCRUM methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front-End Developer GetDocsNow - Las Vegas, NV January 2019 to Present • Helped the company update their outdated members site, added value to their business by creating more usable, an easy-on-the-eye product that complies with modern web standards;  • Raised the company’s visibility to the market by creating a compliant HOA web application;  • Learn ASP.Net Core Technologies in 5 months;  • Assisted in C# development and debugging while supporting customers with service issues. Lead Web UI & Graphics Designer ActionCOACH Global Nevada - Las Vegas, NV June 2017 to January 2019 • Increased organic search traffic by 27%, and direct traffic by 2%.  • Built the 2018 revision of ActionCOACH.com and fixed discrepancies in ranking, web standard compliance, and compliance in design principles.  • Designed the new WordPress Network Site template update for Partners, Franchisees, and the ‘Master Licensees’ for 2018.  • Involved in heavy publication design (magazines, business cards, and other print materials), website graphic design, UX/UI decision-making, and Agile/SCRUM project management with another developer, aside from sophisticated PHP and jQuery development. Senior Web Developer / MIS Superdraft Pty Ltd - Brisbane QLD August 2015 to May 2017 • Increased superdraft.com.au traffic by 13% by developing the new website’s page hierarchy, and producing relevant content which increased usability for users  • Launched several online properties for the company, namely: viz360.com.au, architecturecentre.net and archix.com  • Re-designed the original superdraft.com.au to have a sleeker design, enhanced security against brute force login attacks, and optimized overall website usability by improving the UI Experience. Education Bachelor's in Graphic Design Le 75 École d'art Bruxelles - Brussels September 2009 to March 2012 Associate in Multimedia Design ITT Technical Institute-Everett - Everett, WA September 2004 to September 2006 Bachelor's in Computer Science Lyceum University - Manila March 1999 to January 2003 Skills Front-End, Javascript, CSS3, UI, Advanced WordPress Development, PHP, Word Press, Website, HTML5, Wordpress, MYSQL, Angular, Drupal Links https://bitbucket.org/%7Bcab9d145-4a47-4947-98f1-e44fbe8ff4a2%7D/ http://www.vernard.net Additional Information • Looking specifically for opportunities in the Northeast region of United States, with preference for the state of Massachusetts.  • If you are willing to hire in Massachusetts, please give me ample time to move; I can permanently move to the new State in August 2020.  • If needed immediately, would appreciate assistance on contract cancellation fee on our current residence; assistance for moving expenses appreciated but optional.