Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - ALL INBOX LLC Brooklyn, NY A Web Developer and a skilled communicator, always maintaining  cultural sensitivity.  A Manifesting expert; always set to finding different possibilities that  are not obvious by most.  A Full Stack Wizard, extremely passionate and resourceful. Always  leveraging excellence.  Top Skills:  - Browser: PHP, JavaScript, Python, HTML, CSS.  - Server Side: Node.js, Templating Engines, Sessions, Writing  tests, Express.js, Creating APIs, MVC, User, Authentication, ORM  (Sequelize), LAMP.  - CS Fundamentals: Algorithms, Design Patterns.  - Databases: MySQL, MongoDB, MariaDB, DynamoDB, Postgress,  Snowflake.  - Cutting Edge Development: React.js.  - API Interaction: APIs (Consuming and Creating), JSON, AJAX, Rest,  Soap.  - Dev Tools: serverless, Git, AWS. Work Experience Full Stack Developer ALL INBOX LLC February 2018 to Present Greater New York City Area  Assist with the design, development, testing, & integration of new software and ESP API automation  Maintain existing software systems by correcting software defects  Implement software according to specifications  Support users of our software  Build and maintain 3rd party API integrations  Schedule flexibility to assist with weekend tech monitoring and occasional  after-hours maintenance or issue resolution Lending Specialist Legend Funding - New York, NY July 2016 to April 2017 Maintained the role as primary point of contact for Partners and Account  Executives through high level communications and detailed data analysis  Reviewed personal and corporate financial statements to ensure borrowers  were in good standing as well as advanced extensive audits for discrepancies.  Audit review and verified closed loan packages for various reports including  appraisals, security deeds and final disclosures.  Assisted Underwriting staff with assigned projects, coordination and execution of loan setup, file setup, audit and completion. Web Developer Hit Tech Wireless - New York, NY April 2014 to March 2016 New York  Designed, enhanced, upgraded and maintained the availability and technical  functionality of multiple assigned websites through several different  technological processes.  Migrated global websites to new content management system. Like Joomla, Drupal and Wordpress. Ensured that sites met branding  Created and developed new website based on client goals and requirements to achieve web industry standards Web Master and Technician Brighton Wireless June 2012 to February 2014 1 year 9 months)  Greater New York City Area  As a business owner, i took multiple roles to keep the company running  -A Web Developer, Graphic Designer, and web master: I utilized web scripts, from php to Javascripts, like Joomla, Drupal and wordpress to deliver  websites. And utilized Apaches local server and php myAdmin for MySQL  Databases to implement a local developer environment  -A Technician and Refurbishing specialist, handled all hardware repair tasks Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science Borough of Manhattan Community College 2017 to 2018 Certification University of Central Florida 2017 to 2017 Skills Javascript (4 years), Node (3 years), Jquery (4 years), React (2 years), PHP (3 years), Git (4 years), Python (1 year), HTML (5 years), Lamp (3 years), MySQL (3 years), PostgresSQL (3 years), Software Development (4 years), Web Development (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mehyarswelim Certifications/Licenses Full Stack Web Development January 2017 to Present University of Central Florida  Software Engineering, Full Stack Web Development · (2017 - 2017) 