Front End Developer Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - JetBlue Airways Jersey City, NJ Work Experience Front End Developer JetBlue Airways - Long Island City, NY February 2018 to Present The Business Objectives of the Mobile Web Booking are to move from existing screen scrape mobile web booking flow solution to more robust solution and to provide additional capabilities within the booking flow. While the majority of the mobile website will continue to be screen scraped, the booking flow will utilize the Datalex services which have been made available as part of the CTR initiative.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in upgrading Angular 5 to Angular 6 and upgrade RxJS 5 to RxJS 6 to compatible with current Angular version.  ? Handling offshore team and helping them to understand application architecture and understanding requirements.  ? Extensively worked with angular reactive forms.  ? Worked on handling and loading of packages using webpack to minimize the application execution and build time.  ? Participated in various scrum meetings including daily standup, grooming sessions to report and understand the requirements.  ? Created lot of tech debts and implemented successful such as to improve the application performance and strict to industry standards.  ? Good experience on Angular Material, Pipes, Routers, Forms, Observables, Angular CLI etc.  ? Resolved most of the production issues on time and released as hot fixes to minimize the impact of company revenue.  ? Handled most of the error handling and transformation scenarios in the booking application.  ? Working with product owner and businesses analyst to understand the requirements and to provide an accurate estimate on upcoming stories.  ? Good working knowledge on different code deployment tools like Git, Bitbucket, working with Jenkins, creating scaffold builds in GCP environment and project management tools like Jira and version one.  ? Involved in soft and full production launches and resolved important issues on-demand.  ? Co-ordinated with backend developers in creating RESTFUL Web Services and during contract changes  ? Expertise in handling response data from RESTful web services using JSON and XML.    Environment:  Angular2/4/5/6, Redux, RxJs, Selectors, Tachyons, Ramda Functions, Angular Material, Typescript, HTML5, JavaScript, VS Code.    REMOTE TIGER Full Stack Developer MRIS (Bright MLS) - Rockville, MD January 2017 to January 2018 MRIS is one of the nation's largest MLS systems. MRIS industry-leading technology and data facilitate nearly $51 billion in real estate transactions (listings and sales) each year. They are business for more than two decades. Involved in development of two major projects. The main goal of these projects is to easily manage their listings by the real estate brokers.    Responsibilities:  ? Hands on experience on developing the components using Angular 2 needed for the application from the scratch and customizing from various Angular related libraries to meet the application's functionality.  ? Good amount of work done on Reactive forms in Angular 2 and their Validations.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using modular based architecture provided by Angular 2.  ? Worked with Angular 2 directives, components, pipes, routes and injectables.  ? Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, webpack and grunt.  ? Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  ? Used Node JS to run webpack tasks and build properly the project.  ? Participated in meetings with the product manager to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them with the help of HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  ? Implemented HTTP requests using RxJs Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  ? Good experience on Angular Material2, Pipes, Routers, Forms, Observables, Angular CLI etc.  ? Good knowledge on advanced concepts in Angular 2 like ES6, Material2, and Firebase 2.  ? Used RxJS observables, map and subscribe methods to deal with backend API calls.  ? Assisted Backend Developers in creating RESTFUL Web Services using Node JS, Express JS & Mongo DB.  ? Involved in daily and weekly based status meetings and grooming sessions.  ? Worked on Change Requests for the Project and worked with the Product Manager to understand the changes assess and estimations.  ? Expertise in handling response data from RESTful web services using JSON and XML.    Environment:  AngularJS, Angular2, Observables, Material2, ES6, Typescript, SASS, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, Babel, Sublime Text. MBA Student Profile, University Academic Project University of Central Missouri August 2016 to December 2016 UI Web Developer  The MBA program at University of Central Missouri is an 11-course program. All students should complete a six-course core and five courses for a concentration and electives. There are six concentrations. The main goal of this individual project /system development is to increase the communication and coordination between new students, the MBA program director and concentration advisors.    Responsibilities:  ? ASP.NET 4.0 Design: CSS, Themes, and Master Pages  ? Designed the entire site with CSS styles for consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  ? Hands On ASP.NET AJAX Control Toolkit to get the data from database asynchronously.  ? Handled all the SQL server database errors and displayed proper error messages to users.  ? Designed database schema and generated database diagrams using SQL server Management Studio.  ? Implemented role-based authentication to limit the access to particular web pages.  ? CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX Web Development  ? Prepared and shared the analysis, design and implementation documents to the university. These documents are much useful for maintenance purpose  ? Worked with Bootstrap framework to build the base structure and layout of the website.  ? Responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries and stored procedures, which were commonly used by different modules.    Environment:  ASP.NET(C#), HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax, Microsoft SQL Server, Visual Studio, MS Visio, Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Web Developer FIDELITY INVESTMENTS - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2014 to July 2015 Fidelity Investments is an American multinational financial services corporation. It is one of the largest mutual fund and financial services groups in the world providing services like Trading, Mutual Funds, Retirement and Life Insurance. Project was to implement and enhance the Cash Management System that provides customer with easy way to open cash management account, manage existing account and pay bills online.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked as a UI Developer in developing Web-based applications.  ? Created Rich UI design and developed User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JS, JQuery  ? Create responsive layouts for multiple devices and platforms.  ? Developed layouts, navigation and animation buttons for customers.  ? Created Single Page Application using AngularJS  ? Used JavaScript to implement form validations.  ? Used AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  ? Used Node.js to implement online chat application.  ? Used AngularJS for applying credit card, which involved in using routers, controllers and custom directives to display every transaction.  ? Worked with Agile methodologies with Scrum principles and test-driven development.    Environment:  AngularJS, Twitter Bootstrap, SASS, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Sublime Text. Web/UI Developer IGATE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to October 2014 The RBC has acquired ALLY Canada and the accounts in the ally Canada will be closed and migrated to RBC. Current system in RBC should be enhanced to implement the features of the Resmor products and also to support the same.    Responsibilities:  ? Analysis of project requirements through business users, involved in workflow design, documentation and development of workflows  ? Developed prototype designs into fully functional web sites  ? Coordinated with the Business Analysts and conducted feedback sessions with the Associates in order to understand the requirements of the user interface layout of the web application  ? Utilized expertise in front-end development technologies such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to enhance interactivity  ? Worked on web developing and coding with HTML, CSS3, JavaScript  ? Worked on search Engine Optimization and website testing for cross platform compatibility  ? Used Photoshop and Balsamic for web design  ? Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly  ? Maintained high level of unit test coverage through test-driven development  ? Earned hands on experience working with various aspects of designing: composition, typesetting, lettering, layout, and color of printing and graphic reproduction techniques    Environment:  HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, SASS, Twitter Bootstrap, GIT, AngularJS Junior UI Developer IGATE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2011 to April 2013 SRF (Service Reference File) is a central client detail repository, which stores client demographic details and non-financial account details of clients having accounts/services in RBC. The primary scope of this project initiative is to build a solution to centralize the storage of client contact information.    Retail Banking Investments Systems (RBIS) is a suite of applications used by RBC to sell and support their investment products to retail customers. It provides account updating and reporting functions for Royal Bank investment plan types through three investment vehicles: Mutual Funds, GIC and Savings    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all phases (SDLC) of this project from planning, requirement gathering, design, develop, test and implementation.  ? Involved in web designing using HTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  ? Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design.  ? Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  ? Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  ? Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly  ? Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules.  ? Used SVN tool, for source/version/revision control.  ? Assisted in the implementation of the program activities & ensure timely delivery of project materials    Environment:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, LESS, JSON, and AngularJS. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Ananthapuram, Andhra Pradesh, IN Masters in Computer Information Science and Information Technology in Computer Information Science and Information Technology University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO Skills Front End, UI, Javascript, React, Front-End