Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Eaton Corporation Eastanollee, GA • Over 8+ years of experience in design, development, maintenance and production support of Java/J2EE applications.  • Working knowledge of the multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, a good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Good exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, WSDL, JMS (Java Messaging Service), AJAX.  • Designed and developed web UI screen using Angular-JS.  • Expertise in Core Java Such as OOPs, Collections, Exceptions Handling, Input/output (I/O) System, Swing, Annotations, Enums, Concurrency, Multi-Threading, Lambda, and Generics.  • Experience in Designing and building dynamic and user interactive websites using JavaScript, AngularJS, React JS, Backbone.js, Express.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, and jQuery.  • Developed AngularJS Controllers, Services, filters and directives for various modules in the application.  • Knowledge of ETL tools like Kettle Pentaho and Microsoft SSIS tools.  • Created custom directives, decorators, and services using AngularJS to interface with both RESTful and legacy network services also DOM applications.  • Implemented nested views and routing using Angular UI Router as per the requirement.  • Created reusable components in AngularJS based on the project need using Custom Directives Filters, Services, and Factories.  • Experience in working both Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Experience in working with Core-Java and Multi-Threading applications.  • Expert knowledge of J2EE Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Front Controller, Session Facade, Business Delegate and Data Access Object for building J2EE Applications.  • Experienced in web development using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX technologies.  • Experience in working with Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring AOP.  • Experienced in developing MVC framework-based websites using Struts and Spring.  • Experience in building web applications using Spring Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), IOC (Inversion of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) and template classes.  • Expertise in Object-relational mapping using Hibernate.  • Hands on experience with working on BRMS software like JBoss Drools.  • Experienced in working with batch jobs using Spring-Batch, Autosys, and Quartz.  • Strong experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML-RPC, SAX and XML Beans.  • Expertise in developing and consuming Web services including different technologies and standards like DTD, XSD, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, WS-I and Apache Axis, JAX-RPC.  • Experience in working with Integration frameworks like Apache Camel.  • Camel is used to achieving the Enterprise Integration Pattern.  • Experience in installing, configuring, tuning IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x, BEA Web Logic 8.1/9.1, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x, JBoss 5.x/ 4.x.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, Rational Application Developer(RAD) for Java/J2EE application development.  • Expertise in database modeling and development using SQL, T-SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), DB2 and SQL Server environments.  • Experience in using ANT and Maven for build automation.  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like SVN, Clear Case, CVS, and Subversion.  • Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows 98 / 2000 / NT / XP, AIX, Sun Solaris  • Proficient in software documentation and technical report writing.  • Involved in Performance analysis and improvements of the application using tools like JMeter and using commands on Unix box to resolve deadlocks and improve performance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Eaton Corporation - Eastanollee, GA August 2017 to Present Description:Eaton Corporation Plc is a multinational power management company with 2017 sales of $20.4 billion, founded in the United States with corporate    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC including the design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Used JSP, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application.  • Used AngularJS and Backbone.JS for client-side validation.  • Develop various screens for the front end using AngularJS and used various predefined components from NPM.  • Worked with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  • Multithreading was used to process data in chunks to improve performance.  • Handed Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user.  • Developed internal coding using JEE technologies based on the MVC Architecture.  • Implemented Business Logic using Java, Spring MVC, and Hibernate.  • Implemented RESTful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to project to the client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  • Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database operations and avoid redundant database access statements.  • Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP and Spring Annotations.  • Developed reports include Invoice Printings and Patient profiles. Assigned as lead developer throughout the design, analysis and coding phase of a Claims Processing System.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Removed all the XML based configurations required to build the MVC application and maintained in the classes using Spring Boot.  • Developed user interface as JSF, prime faces, HTML and CSS and BOOTSTRAP with custom tag libraries using JSF Framework.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST.  • Implementing or exposing the Microservices based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Developed and used REST web services for the reporting framework.  • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Deployed GUI code to WebLogic application environment and standalone components to JBoss Server. Developed web services to perform various operations on the supplier information.  • Responsible for configuring Continuous Integration Server i.e. Jenkins and SonarQube.  • Used NoSQL DB like MongoDB for the proof of concept.  • Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, Sharding, and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  • Optimized the full-text search function by connecting to MongoDB.  • Used JIRA ticketing system to keep track of issues and tasks on individuals.  • Use Maven to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Used GITHUB as version control tool.    Environment:JAVA, J2SE, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node JS, JSON, J2EE, Spring Framework 4.2.0, Spring MVC 4.2, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data (Spring JDBC, Spring ORM), JSP2.0, Hibernate 4.0, Web services, RESTful, RAD, WebSphere, SonarQube, Agile/Scrum Methodology, Maven, JIRA, JBoss, JUnit, TDD, MongoDB, Micro Services, GITHUB. Java Developer Citi Financial - Tampa, FL May 2016 to July 2017 Description: Citigroup Inc. is an american multinational investment bank and financial sevices corporation headquartered in New York City. The company was formed by the merger of banking gaint Citicrop and financial conglomerate Travelers Group. Citigroup now owns Citicrop, the holding company for Citibank, as well as several international subsidiaries  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet customer expectations, timelines with quality deliverables.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS and NodeJS.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using AngularJS and developed responsive Web pages using Bootstrap.  • Designed and developed an application using Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Batch and Spring Data.  • Implemented logging and transaction manager using Spring AOP concept.  • Used Spring JPA and Spring Repository pattern extensively.  • Used Spring Security to provide authentication, authorization and access-control features for Application.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot with Spring MVC flow.  • Developed Restful Services using JAX-RS with Spring Boot and Micro Service Architecture to enable Micro Services to deploy in the cloud.  • Analyze business requirements and develop various business delegates to integrate with middleware services like JAX-WS, JAX-RS using SOAP and REST.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Implemented Spring Boot application with the embedded jetty server to run the application on the instance.  • Provided portable APIs for developing, exposing and accessing Web applications designed and implemented in compliance with principles of REST architectural style using JAX-RS and Apache jersey.  • Extensively used Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions, Parallel operations on collections for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  • Created customized AMIs based on already existing AWS EC2 instances by using create image functionality, hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  • Automated application deployment in the cloud using Docker technology using Elastic Container Service scheduler.  • Worked on designing specific programs efficiently through knowledge of Multithreading using the API with the goal of increasing performance on a wide variety of applications.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations.  • Used Apache camel integration for routing and transforming the data between two Applications using HTTP protocol.  • Used Rabbit MQ as Java Messaging Service for producing and consuming data between applications.  • Connected to Data sources and performed operations using Spring Data Framework features like Spring JDBC and Spring ORM.  • Developed test cases for Unit Testing using JUnit and Mockito.  • Built No SQL schemas and maintaining sessions by MongoDB.  • Written SQL Queries and stored procedures to interact with Oracle DB.  • Used Gradle builds automation tool to build and deploy the application in the WebSphere Application Server.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking for monitoring of work assignment in the system and Log4J was used to monitor the error logs.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with UNIX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.  • Used Git for version control and IntelliJIDEA IDE for development of the application.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Data, Restful Services, SOAP, Micro Services Architecture, JMS, Hibernate, Apache Camel, JDBC, Oracle, Mongo DB, JUnit, Mockito, Gradle, JIRA, Jenkins, Unix, GIT, Web Sphere Application Server and IntelliJ. Java Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield - Richardson, TX January 2015 to April 2016 Description: Blue Cross Blue Shield Association is a federation of 36 separate United States health insurance organizations and companies, providing health insurance in the United States to more than 106 million people.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, design, workflow, and process flow, Development of Airline technology applications called FOCUS and CIS using Core Java and Java Swings  • Involved in consuming, producing SOAP annotation-based web-services using JAX-WS. Which includes features like WS-Security standards, role-based security to restrict access to resources.  • Continuous integration using Jenkins for nightly builds and send automatic emails to the team.  • Designed and developed persistence layer build on ORM framework and developed it using Hibernate.  • Developed UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, Bootstrap, CSS and AngularJS framework.  • Involved in Secure Coding against SQL injection, XSS attacks by adding extensive validation code for all user inputs by writing JavaScript Regex Regular Expression for login validation, jQuery code combined with AngularJS ng-pristine/dirty for input validation.  • Developed well responsive single page application using React JS framework and JavaScript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards.  • Developed all the User Interfaces using JSP and Spring MVC.  • Worked in the Agile Environment with daily stand-ups and work within the specified time  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate framework in conjunction with validation.xml functionality.  • Extensively used DAO patterns, including mapping DAO objects, configure file and classes to interact with the database.  • Used Jenkins plugins for code coverage and to run all the test before generating war file.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using Hibernate (ORM) framework.  • Developed rich User Interface using jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, and HTML5.  • Used AJAX function calls using jQuery functions to handle the user requests asynchronously and to have faster responses from the server by directly connecting to the server.  • Obtained JSON responses to front-end using GSON API.  • Implemented web services, used to retrieve data that tells whether the claimant is incarcerated or not.  • Developed applications using Hibernate persistent framework, developed persistent classes, hibernate-mapping files, configured XML files, hibernate query language.  • Developed JSP pages for correspondence team.  • Implemented web services using WSDL/SOAP and created web services and clients to use those services.  • Designed and Developed Rating Engine as a Web service following the top-down approach using Apache Axis2.  • Experience in using Data Access Objects (DAO), Session Facade, and Business Delegate and Factory patterns to increase the performance of the system.  • Experience in installing, configuring and deploying the application on Web Logic Server.  • Implemented build scripts using MAVEN.  • Involved in Unit Test Cases writing and having good knowledge in JUnit.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit framework and tested DAO's and Business Services.  • ClearCase technology was used for version control.  • Developed design Patterns for the objects to access within the application.  • Worked with Eclipse IDE to develop and deploy the complete application.  • Utilized SVN for software configuration management and version control.  • Used JAXB for marshaling and un-marshaling.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Functions in MySQL.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Rational Rose, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Spring Config, Jersey, RESTful Web services, WSDL, JBoss, Struts, JUnit, XML, XSLT, Log4j, MySQL, SOAP, ANT, Maven, AngularJS, SQL Developer, WebLogic 10.3.x, UNIX Shell Scripts, Oracle9i/10g SOA, Eclipse IDE 3.7, SVN, SQL HTML 5. Java/J2EE Developer BBVA Compass - Plano, TX May 2013 to December 2014 Description:BBVA Compass Banking is one of the lists of largest banks in the United States. As part of project my role is to develop web applications to meet the mortgage needs of client, loan deposits, Multi Loan deposits and Teller Referral.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, SAX, XSLT, JAXP, JNDI, LDAP, JMS and MQSeries.  • Implemented business layer using Core Java, Spring Beans using Dependency injection, spring annotations, and Spring Web-flow components.  • Used Spring Boot for building applications along with Spring Initializer and bootstrapping the build configuration for a Boot-based web application.  • Developed JSP pages using Spring MVC 3.0 framework and created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components.  • Involved in design and development of server-side layer using JSP, JDBC, EJB and DAO patterns using Eclipse IDE.  • Developed server-side services using Java, Spring, Web Services (SOAP, Restful, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RPC).  • Research and development on scalable Linux development on AWS via Docker.  • Developed Struts Action and Form classes to access Java Beans and UI and deployed various Sessions beans.  • Involved in the Development of reporting system using Struts, Spring, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Developed the application using RAD as the IDE and used its features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation and version control (CVS).  • Managed different AWS account with multiple VPC's for both production and non-prod where primary objectives included automation, build out, integration and cost control.  • Redesigned Web front-end for scheduling system using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, with the jQuery library.  • Designed and build document tracking/workflow system with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript using jQuery, JSON, and a REST architecture.  • Wrote JUnit test cases to test the functionality of the code by using Mock Framework.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Spring Web Flows.  • Used Hibernate to access database and perform database updating.  • Wrote test cases in Junit for unit testing of classes and implemented the logging using Log4j.  • Built data access subsystems using Hibernate and Spring against stored procedures on a DB2 database  • Resolved database inconsistency with better design and efficient SQL queries.  • Used JMS (Java Messaging Service) Publish/Subscribe model for asynchronous communication between different modules  • Design Client-side architecture for UI development using AngularJS.  • Used SOAP UI tool for testing web services connectivity.  • Used Git Hub to Check-in and Checkout the code.  • Development of modules using AngularJS and HTML5.    Environment: Java, JDK 1.7, J2EE, Servlets, MVC, WebLogic, Apache CAMEL(Integration), EJB, JSP, Struts, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring AOP, Spring Microservices, JPA, Hibernate, XML, NetBeans, Multi-Threading, Web Services, WebSphere HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, SOAP, Log4j, GIT, JUnit, Eclipse, AWS, EC2, RDS Angular JS. Java/J2EE Developer Global Tele Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2011 to April 2013 Description: Global Insurance System is software designed for a group of insurance agents, which supports the maintenance activities of Insurance Policies and their associated company details, their procedures in maintaining various types of policies, with the corresponding details of Policy holders, associated agents involved in the policy maintenance etc.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle, such as requirements gathering, Modeling, analysis, design, and development.  • XLDP is DB driven website with Struts Action Controller and SQL Server database.  • Generated Use Case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase. Used java Design Patterns like DAO, Singleton etc.  • Used Struts tag libraries (like HTML, logic, tab, bean etc..,) and JSTL tags in JSP pages.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • A Test-Driven Development (TDD) Agile Methodology has been followed.  • Deployed all application on WebLogic Application Server and development using Eclipse.  • Used DAO pattern to retrieve the data from thedatabase.  • Involved in system design and development in core java using Collections, multithreading and exception handling.  • Implemented Multithread concepts in Java classes to avoid deadlocking.  • Used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with thedatabase.  • Developed batch programs to update and modify metadata of alarge number of documents in FileNet Repository using CE APIs.  • Worked on creating Packages, Stored Procedures & Functions in Oracle using PL/SQL and TOAD.  • Involved in coding and code reviews.  • Developed Custom Tags to simplify the JSP code. Designed UI Screens using JSP, Struts tags and HTML.  • Involved in design and implementation of document-based Web Services.  • Written SQL Statements for retrieving and updating data with varying complexity.  • Involved in implementing multithreaded environment to generate messages.  • Used prepared statements and callable statements to implement batch insertions and access stored procedures  • Application Developer and used CVS for version control. Designed, Developed and Implemented JSP's in Presentation layer for the Submission Application reference implementation.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for unit testing the integration layer.  • Call PayPal/CyberSourceAPI to authenticate and authorize the transactions.  • Banning the IP address that is considered as a fraud based on business requirements.  • Involved in production support of the application(L3), debug/analyze the rolling logs in a production environment.  • Co-ordinate with on-shore resources for the tickets raised by the customer support team and solve the issue after tracking the root cause analysis.    Environment: Java 1.4, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Hibernate, Spring 1.4, Struts, tag Libraries, JDBC, PL/SQL, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle 9i (SQL), UNIX, JSPs, AJAX, Eclipse 3.0, Windows XP/2000, Tomcat Server, LINUX, CVS. Web Developer Capture IT Solutions Hyderabad February 2010 to November 2011 Description:Capture IT Solutions is an innovative idea in the form of a company formed in the year 2011 with likeminded industry specialists with many many years of experience in their respective fields. Capture IT Solutions intention has been to fulfill the overall requirements of enterprises and not limited to a specific area.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of UI/UX implementation of an internal mobile catalog application including Design, Prototyping, development and testing phases.  • Rewrote and maintained the internal library and built a structured MVC /MVVM framework by redesigning the front- end UI components.  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, and JSON with MySQL database as the backend.  • Built HTML templates for high traffic and complex data-driven website.  • Debugged all look and feel issues in the target browsers, in conjunction with quality assurance.  • Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested event handling logic using jQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Used Selectors in jQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Experienced in implementing Rich Internet Applications i.e., RIAs using JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX calls and JSON data from the server.  • Programmed standards-compliantHTML and CSS working with jQuery modules and JavaScript libraries.  • Worked through cross-browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS.  • Tested cross-browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE8+.  • Made changes to various CSS properties to enhance the UI as per client requirements. Wrote SQL, PL/SQL (Procedures/Functions/Packages/Triggers) to handle business functionality.  • Used XML SAX parser to simulate XML file which has simulated test data.  • Code review and function testing for better client interface and usability.  • Participation in meeting with the team, senior management, and client stakeholders.    Environment: HTML, CSS, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, MVC Framework, XML, J2EE, JSF, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (8 years), SQL (7 years), TESTING (7 years), AJAX (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 8 (JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8), Python, PHP.  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets (3.x), JDBC (4.x), JSTL, Java Server Pages (JSP 2.x), JSF, MS.  Frameworks Struts (2.x.x), spring (3.x/4.x), Hibernate (3.x/ 4.x), Apache Camel (2.x), Swing, Apache CXF.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, AngularJS, Angular 2, React JS, AJAX, Backbone.js, jQuery, SOAP and Restful, Node.js.  Web Servers Tomcat (8.x/ 9.x), Web Logic (9.x), Web Sphere (6.x), Red Hat JBoss Fuse, Glassfish Server (4.x).  Tools Ant (1.x, Gradle (3.x), Maven (3.x), Log4j, Git (1.x/2.x), SVN (1.x), CVS (1.x.x)), JUnit (4.x), Selenium (3.x/ 4.x) Mockito), Jenkins, Hudson and Bamboo.  IDE Eclipse Luna(M6), IntelliJ IDEA (15.x), Net Beans (8.x), RAD (7.x)  Web Services AWS  Databases Oracle 11g/12C, MySQL, SQL, MongoDB, Mainframes, Teradata, PostgreSQL, Cassandra.  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, BO XI R3.  Cloud AWS.EC2.  Version Control Tools CVS, VSS, Rational ClearCase, Tortoise SVN, Mercurial, ANT, Maven  Testing JUnit, Log4J, Mockito, FitNesse Tests  Messaging Tools JMS, Java Mail.