IT Support IT Support IT Engineer US Develop and increase my knowledge and obtain most experience and  knowledge for be a professional better. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience IT Support TECMA - Ciudad Juárez, Chih. July 2016 to Present Part of a new project of technology solutions, reporting to Plant Manager in the local applications development, modification, and support. Server administration.  Local network and IP phones support. IT Support on new production lines and work  station, working with TI Corp. Zebra and Lexmark printer's maintenance. Computer  failure analysis, diagnostic, repair and reload computer system. Web Developer OSGO Furniture January 2016 to May 2016 Modification of functionalities on the official site, developing in a web environment with MySql, PHP, HTML and Java Script. Inventory system upgrade, development and support of supplier registration system.  Working with design team, marketing team, content team, and sales team, for a  better construction of the web site  Supporting local network and support to end users with the local applications. Information Systems Technician Sanmina Systems Mexico December 2013 to June 2015 IT Support on Dish business production on: Inventory Systems support to resolve  location merchancy issues and change status. Shop Floor Data Collection, MES  Applications, Local Network, servers, IP phones, Zebra printers, Ricoh and OKI  printers, computers, end users and administrative support, working with IT corp.  IT Support on new production lines and work station, working with Engineering team and Production Team  Windows user account management with Active Directory. Computer failure  analysis, diagnostic, repair and reload computer system. Maintenance of computer  equipment in production lines, like PCs and Zebra printers.  Hardware and software installation in production lines, like extra card networks and serial card. Local network support, solving issues, monitoring and enabling new  local ports. End user and administrative support, enterprise software installation,  printer devices installation, on network and local ports. Education Bachelor's in Computer Scientist Engineering UACJ - Ciudad Juarez July 2009 to May 2016 Skills LEAN MANUFACTURING (Less than 1 year), Desktop Support (5 years), Software Development (5 years), Technical Support Additional Information SKILLS  • Network skills  • Data Base Management  • Programming skills  • Lean Manufacturing  • Core Tools  • Troubleshooting    STRENGTHS  • Self-Directed  • Proactive  • Self-taught person  • Work under pressure  • Leading groups