Police Officer Police Officer UX/UI & Graphic Designer who can write code. Keasbey, NJ Web Developer specializing in front and back end development. Extensively experienced in all stages of the development applications cycle for dynamic web projects. Well-versed in numerous programming languages including JavaScript, SQL,  React and etc. Strong project management focused on customer relations.    Portfolio Link:  https://www.dropbox.com/sh/wuttwtzrcf2ojpg/AAAqIl7iK1capU2eVUGnbZS4a?dl=0    Recent Projects  Amazon Clone - MySQL, Inquirer, Node  An Amazon like store front which would take in orders from customers and deplete stocks from a stores inventory.  Created a datatbase through MySQL that houses all of intventory.  Inquirer.js to prompt the questions for the user and validate responses.  Node.js to show inventory of the stores and served as a UI for the customer.  Friend Finder - Express, Bootstrap, Node  Fill out a survey and find out who in the database who is the closes match to you based off a users answers.  Express allowed for a more interactive experience for the user.  Bootstrap to create a simple yet elegant front-end design.  Node.js to house the data on logic on the server.  Siri Clone - Node.js, Spotify API, Twitter API, OMDB API, and File Support for reading and writing to a log.txt  As the name suggests, LIRI is analogous to the iPhone's SIRI assistant, but rather than using speech,  LIRI is controlled through written text.  Twitter-my-tweets returns your Twitter account's 20 most recent tweets using the Twitter API.  Spotify-You will utilize the node-spotify-api package in order to retrieve song information from the Spotify API.  IMDb-This will output all relevant information about the movie.  Using the fs Node package, LIRI will take the text inside of random.txt and then use it to call one of LIRI's comman Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Police Officer U.S. Air Force September 2011 to Present Successfully lead teams of 25 plus people. Web Developer Rutgers Coding Boot Camp May 2017 to August 2017 Assisted senior developer to manage large, complex design projects for corporate clients.  Develop project concepts and maintain optimal workflow.  Complete detailed programming and development tasks for front end public and internal websites as well as challenging  backend server code.  Collaborate with designers to create clean interfaces and simple, intuitive interactions and experiences. Education Bachelor of Arts in Graphic Design Bloomfield College 2018 Skills BOOTSTRAP (2 years), CSS (2 years), PHP (Less than 1 year), HTML (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), jQuery (1 year), SQL (1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/joshua-serrano-patron https://github.com/jrspxjosh https://www.dropbox.com/sh/wuttwtzrcf2ojpg/AAAqIl7iK1capU2eVUGnbZS4a?dl=0 Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: A1C Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0j4a0lqjnluufolg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Skills  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, BootStrap, Handlebars, MySQL, MongoDB, Firebase,  Node, Express, React, jQuery, PHP