Sr. Web UI Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Web</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web UI Developer - Baxter Healthcare Deerfield, IL ? UI/ Web Developer with over 7+ years of professional experiences in Web Designing and User Interface Development using Web Technologies.  ? Strong developing experience with HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Experienced in JavaScript frameworks like JQUERY.  ? Expertise in using XML/JSON and AJAX to link with back-end applications.  ? Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug and Developer Tools.  ? Excellent working on how to implement User-centered design (UCD) methodology.  ? Experience in using JavaScript frameworks JQuery, AngularJS, Node.js Twitter Bootstrap.  ? Experience in Web Application Development using MVC Architecture with AngularJS andJSP.  ? Experience in tools and IDEs for development and design like Eclipse, Visual studio, Notepad++, IntelliJ, ATOM, JDev, NetBeans, WebStorm.  ? Strong experience with Cross Browser Compatibility issues and Optimization for web, including CSS Sprites and best practices.  ? Professional experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JQuery, JSON, FOP and CSS3.  ? Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  ? Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  ? Hands on Experience with Source code management tools like GitHub, and SVN.  ? Well experienced in using version control systems subversion (SVN), Visual source Safe and team Foundation Server (TFS).  ? Experience in Development and Documentation throughout the entire SDLC.  ? Experience in designing Rich Internet Application (RIA's) with JQUERY, AJAX.  ? Up to date Knowledge with the latest industry trends in UI design and usability.  ? Strong communication, problem-solving, and planning skills, with ability to work independently or in a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Web UI Developer Baxter Healthcare - Chicago, IL February 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Worked in Agile/SCRUM methodology approach for UI Development.  ? Built rich prototypes and applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS.  ? Worked with AngularJS routers, forms, modules, Dom, events, expressions, controllers, filters and Http Request.  ? Designing and implementing functionality using technologies including JavaScript, AJAX, and JavaScript frameworks such as JQuery.  ? Developed cross-browser pages using CSS, HTML, DHTML, and JavaScript.  ? Involved in creating AJAX calls using Angular JS to handle data operations including ordering and filtering.  ? Performed Unit Testing and Integration testing of the application.  ? Participated in daily meeting for enhancing the features of application.  ? As a Developer coordinated with offshore team and client in understanding the business process and requirement understanding.  ? Good exposure/experience in Angular JS for building SPA dynamic web page development.  ? Extensive knowledge on AngularJS components like controllers, directives, factory and service resources, routing, Dependency injection, 2-way data binding, filters and events.  ? Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  Environment: HTML5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, JSON, Eclipse and Dreamweaver Front End/UI Developer Bank of America - Pennington, NJ August 2012 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Interacted with business analyst and Product Owners to understand the requirements to ensure correct UI modules been built to meet business requirements.  ? Created POC for present day working model with AngularJS implementation.  ? Worked closely with the Product Owner's and providing them brief Knowledge over the AngularJS implementation.  ? Created mockups taking up the User-Experience work as highest Priority.  ? Used MVC architecture of AngularJS Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  ? Following the W3 standards created composite code for the Angular Project.  ? Created SPA for the End User providing route technologies with faster and responsive using AngularJS Framework.  ? Experience in building Custer centric Single Page Applications.  ? Designed and developed User friendly web based interfaces using JSP, AngularJS, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and Custom Tags.  ? Developed web pages using Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components.  ? Worked on CSS pre-processor frameworks (SASS 3.4 & LESS 2.0).  ? Implemented AJAX in web pages for accessing application data without refresh the whole pages for better user experience.  ? Used AngularJS, JavaScript for validating client-side validations.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Experience in using ReactJS to build web components.  ? Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems)  ? Extensively used NodeJS on front end (used namespaces, closures and custom bindings).  ? Implemented data-binding using NODEJS for front-end development of a current web application.  ? Performed troubleshooting on all mobile platforms both through telephony Avaya system, and with remote support. Supporting iOS, Android.  ? Worked on tools like Eclipse and GIT repositories and Installed and configured GIT and synced with multiple GIT-Hub repositories.  ? Developed the application using Visual Studio 2013, TFS, MVC Framework, C# and Microsoft SQL Server 2012.  ? Installed and configured GIT on developer workstations and documented merge strategies.  ? Worked in developing dynamic robust UI screens using CSS, HTML, AngularJS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JQuery.  ? Compile statistics and analytics reports into dynamic Excel/Drive spreadsheets using data from Google Analytics, WordPress.  ? Used ReactJS to build web components such as signup form and rule form.  ? Used CSS3.0 for styling and HTML 5.0 for Templates in Ext JS.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring-boot, Web Services, JQuery, AngularJS, Java Script, AJAX, CSS, NodeJS, REST API, Jasmine, ReactJS, GIT, Oracle, Eclipse, Agile. Web Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA May 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, and jQuery, Ajax.  ? Involved in developing responsive web pages using media queries and Bootstrap.  ? Responsible for the all the client side UI validation and implementing the business logic based on user generated events.  ? Built Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular JS, and Object Oriented JavaScript.  ? Developed AngularJS Filters in the view templates for the text manipulations.  ? Created custom directives and custom filters using Angular JS built in $http service from controller through dependency injection.  ? Developed AngularJS modules to separate application views, controllers and models.  ? Used firebug, chrome developer tools and IE developer toolbar for debugging java script and code refactoring.  ? Involved in writing application level code to develop and consume APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and Python.  ? Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility issues and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  ? Worked closely with back-end developers to find ways to push the limits of existing Web technology in service of creating the best possible user experience.  ? Involved in implementing queries to the back-end MongoDB database.  ? Worked in all phases of SDLC, including requirements analysis, design and development, bug fixing, supporting QA teams and debugging production issues.  ? Used CSS Image Sprites to reduce load time of web page by decreasing the number of images which requires less number of server requests.  ? Worked in scrum process attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  ? Used GIT for version control.  Environment: AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, GIT, Putty, Rest Client, MongoDB, UNIX Software Developer Fanniemae - Reston, VA July 2008 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed, Designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of business users.  ? Participated in the design review of the application to come up with UI and provide best possible recommendations for the application from UI standpoint.  ? Implemented presentation tier using HTML, CSS by utilizing the mock-ups that were created by design team.  ? Developed screen functionality using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  ? Developed UI using HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript validations.  ? Traversed the DOM using JQuery using different selectors.  ? Implemented interaction between frontend and backend using the JSON object.  ? Wrote Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer and Firefox.  ? Written CSS to provide table free layout to user interface screen.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JAVA, J2EE. Skills Web Technologies: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, JQUERY, JSON, Ext JS, DOJO, JSON, Backbone.js, Node.js, Angular.js, Require.js Database: Oracle9x/10x, MS SQL Server, MS-Access, SQL Operating: Windows (vista/9x/NT/XP), Win 7. Developer Tools: Eclipse IDE, Dreamweaver, MS Office, MS-Visio, MS Excel Browser: IE6, 7 & 8, Firefox, Opera, Chrome 4, Safari 5 Web Services REST, SOAP, SOA AND WSDL Version control tools CVS, SVN and GIT Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, JQUERY, JSON, Ext JS, DOJO, JSON, Backbone.js, Node.js, Angular.js, Require.js  Database: Oracle9x/10x, MS SQL Server, MS-Access, SQL  Operating: Windows (vista/9x/NT/XP), Win 7.  Developer Tools: Eclipse IDE, Dreamweaver, MS Office, MS-Visio, MS Excel  Browser: IE6, 7 & 8, Firefox, Opera, Chrome 4, Safari 5  Web Services REST, SOAP, SOA AND WSDL  Version control tools CVS, SVN and GIT