Software/ Web Developer Software/<span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Internship - Chronic Logic Game Studio Livermore, CA An accomplished Game Designer and Educator Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software/ Web Developer SkillSets Online - San Ramon, CA September 2016 to Present Developed a website for users to watch educational training videos and keep track of their usage. I also manage our Square Space website and database backend. Internship Chronic Logic Game Studio - Santa Cruz, CA March 2014 to Present Network Programming for Xbox indie game (C#/XNA). Tutoring Instructor The Tutoring Center - San Ramon, CA October 2015 to January 2019 I work with students 1-on-1 and in small groups, K-12. We work from our own special curriculum focusing on catching up in Math, Reading and Writing and correcting skill gaps. We use a workbook, but also incorporate creative activities in our teaching. After School Instructor iBest Learning Center - Danville, CA April 2017 to October 2017 Classroom Instructor for 3rd and 4th graders covering common core subjects as well as supplementary math, science and public speaking activities. Coding instructor for 6th graders.  Junior Android Developer TheRubyThree - San Ramon, CA October 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities  I was part of a small team working on the front end of an android application and also did REST integration with a database via our Rails api    Accomplishments  Learned quite a bit about Ruby and honed my Android skills. Completed an app from start to finish.    Skills Used  Java, Android SDK, xml, Ruby on Rails, Github ASP.NET Web Developer AMR - Modesto, CA July 2013 to September 2013 Responsibilities  Worked with a team to create a web application for database access. Mobile Programming Intern Itsy Bitsy Stories - Oakland, CA September 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities  Converted an educational iPhone game to Android and additional programming. Education BS in Computer Science University of California, Santa Cruz - Santa Cruz, CA 2005 to 2011 Skills PHP, Javascript