Technology Architect Technology Architect Sunnyvale, CA • More than 12 years of work experience in across various SDLCs including Modeling, Programming, Testing deployment and production support.  • Extensive knowledge in technologies like Java, Servlets, JSP, JAX-RS, REST, SOAP, Spring, JDBC, XML, AJAX, JSON, Oracle DB, Junit(Mockito/TestNG).  • Having work experienced in Test-driven Development methodology (TDD).   • Have experience in both hosting and consumption of Web services development (Rest web services with java spring, maven and Jboss )  • Having work experience in Agile methodologies like sprint planning, backlog refinement, organizing stand-up meetings.  • Having experience in working with end to end workflow for business requirements starting Analysis, design, development, testing, deployment, documentation and support activities.  • Implemented Blacklist patterns and keywords and filter financial applications log data.  • Worked extensively on Multithreading, Java Collections framework for Batch processing.  • Experience in design and developing multi-tier web applications focused in JAVA Technologies (Core Java, Servlets, REST, JSP, JDBC, Hibernate and Spring framework).   • I have worked in the domain of Banking and Financial Services, Telecom and E-Commerce.  • Proven track record of leading multiple program management initiatives in financial services.  • Strong experience in Customer Expectation, Business Presentations, Audits, Proposals, Team Building, Project Management, Estimation, Technical Proficiency, Process Management, Finance Domain, Delivery Management, Growing Business.  • Managed teams across the geographical locations (onshore and offshore).  • Possess excellent interpersonal, communication and organizational skills with proven abilities in people management, customer relationship and planning activities.  • Excellent Communication, Highly Committed, Problem Solving, Multi-Tasking, Team Player, Determination and highly organized.  • Achieved Excellent Performer of the Year 2015 L&T InfoTech. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Technology Architect Infosys - Sunnyvale, CA Present Project: Apple Identity Management Service (IdMS)  Identity Management Services (IdMS) is among the most critical systems at Apple which offer one-stop service to multiple touch points in the Apple ecosystem including external customer-facing applications such as iTunes, Apple Online Store, iCloud, Face Time, etc. The IdMS - DS Core Service is a high-volume online transaction processing system with a multi-data center presence.     ·    Working on to develop new feature and maintain existing feature.   ·    Extensively worked on business, and persistence tier using the core java 8.   ·    Involved in design, development and testing phases of project.  ·    Involved in design, analysis and architectural meetings. Created Architecture Diagrams using EA, and Flow Charts using Microsoft Visio.   ·    Followed agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development and scrum status meetings.  ·    Used JUnit to test persistence and service tiers.  ·    Used Eclipse and Jboss for entire project development.  ·    Worked on tools like GIT, SVN and Radar for configuration management and bug tracking and fixing.  ·    Developed multiple services related to support admin activities like change password, add or remove user accounts or restrict the accounts, reset password.  ·    Having experienced in working with splunk to analysis and debug services and deploy directory services applications into servers.  ·    Having experience in working with Solr to search user information using Solr querys. Having experience in working with Couch base to store namespaces and user information.  ·    Developed services for Apple School Education to support to manages the Roles & Privileges and Users (Admin, Teacher, Students). Account management activities like Account creation, Password management, privilege management.  ·    Developed the multiple services for Apple Pay to support Account creation, password management, Family support, Geographic support, payment support various Billing payments like CC, debit cards, PayPal, WeChat. Project Lead L&T Infotech - Sunnyvale, CA February 2013 to November 2016 Project: CITI InControl  It’s a maintenance and support project of CITI corporate application InControl. InControl is a suite of tools that provide an easy-to-use solution that empowers you to efficiently manage real estate, expense, resources & more.     ·    Single Point of Contact (SPOC) to update the defect raised by the Testing team during System Integration Testing.  ·    Creating & Maintaining Project related documents.  ·    Extensively worked on business using the core java 8, ExtJs, Spring, Flex Action Script, Oracle  ·    Extensively involved in communication with business experts in order to understand the new requirement or change in requirement.   ·    Involved in design, development and testing phases of project.  ·    Interacted with the Client for any queries or issues raised by the team member.  ·    Involved in design, analysis and architectural meetings.   ·    Followed agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development and scrum status meetings.  ·    Used JUnit to test persistence and service tiers.  ·    Used Eclipse and Apache for entire project development.  ·    Worked on tools like GIT, SVN and JIRA for configuration management and bug tracking and fixing. Associate Manager Ushacomm India Pvt Ltd - Kolkata, West Bengal December 2010 to February 2013 Project: Web-based Telecomm billing product Web-Based Unicorn  Unicorn is the telecom billing product to generate bill for the postpaid mobile connection.   ·    Understand the business requirement. Worked on the CRM part of the product like Interface design, screen design, styling, skinning, customer registration through wizard, customer demographics management, billing address management, plan product offering allocation to the customer, customer dashboard.   ·    Designing regression testing tools of the changed requirement as well as different Automation tools for Managing the environment flow and process health check.  ·    Working on to develop new feature and maintain existing feature using Core Java, Flex Action Script, Oracle.   ·    Involved in design, development and testing phases of project. PHP & Flex Developer Randem IT Pvt Ltd - Kolkata, West Bengal March 2009 to November 2010 Project: Ingram Micro Virtual Expo Tech  It is a web-based virtual expo for INGRAM MICRO. Different vendor and reseller company can join this expo, book their stall, design their stall, do the video conference and live chat.     ·    Extensively worked on business, and persistence tier using the PHP & ADOBE FLEX.  ·    Involved in design, development and testing phases of project.  ·    Followed agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development and scrum status meetings.  ·    Used JUnit to test persistence and service tiers.  ·    Used Eclipse and apache for entire project development.  ·    Worked on tools like GIT, SVN and Radar for configuration management and bug tracking and fixing.  ·    Worked on the Interface design, screen design, styling, skinning.   ·    Working on to develop new feature and maintain existing feature using Core Java, Flex Action Script, Oracle.   Web Application Developer Diadem - Kolkata, West Bengal August 2008 to March 2009 Project: Property Insurance Manager  The main purpose of this system to manage insurance policy customization, manage broker, customer and their policies.   ·    Extensively worked on front end, business, and persistence tier   ·    Involved in design, development and testing phases of project.  ·    Involved in design, analysis and architectural meetings. Created Architecture Diagrams, and Flow Charts using Microsoft Visio.   ·    Followed Agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development and scrum status meetings.  ·    Used JUnit to test persistence and service tiers.  ·    Used Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE) in entire project development. Consultant Developer Crony Infotech - Kolkata, West Bengal August 2007 to August 2008 ·    Worked on the different types of E-commerce website.   ·    Extensively worked on front end, business, and persistence tier   ·    Involved in design, development and testing phases of project.  ·    Followed Agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development and scrum status meetings.  ·    Used JUnit to test persistence and service tiers.  ·    Used Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE) in entire project development. Education BTech in Information Technology Kolkata, West Bengal July 2002 to August 2006 Skills Java (10+ years), Javascript (3 years), J2EE (8 years), XML (7 years), SQL (7 years), Agile (6 years), HTML (5 years), CSS (5 years), Ajax (6 years), Eclipse (10+ years), Git (7 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/debjoty-sil-b472108a/ Awards Excellent Performer of the Year 2015 2015-12 Achieved Excellent Performer of the Year 2015 L&T InfoTech.  Certifications/Licenses Brain Bench Java 6 (783235111800206561) Present NCFM Certification (NCFM-00001149050) Present