ServiceNow Developer/Admin ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin ServiceNow Developer/Admin - Integra Cloud Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow Developer/Admin Integra Cloud - Atlanta, GA May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? A Service-Now expert with experience on implementing end to end as Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Release Management, Configuration and Asset management and Service Catalog in Geneva, Helsinki, Istanbul.  ? Designed and developed solutions within the Service-Now environment to include modifications of application, forms, workflows, interfaces and any other customization required to support ITIL process.  ? Created Buttons and Context menus on both form and list using UI actions.  ? Written Catalog client scripts and UI policies to make client side changes.  ? Knowledge and Hands on experience inAngularJS, JavaScript, Node JS Frameworks  ? Created many workflows which are being reused and propagated and handled many custom events.  ? Also, involved in generating the emails and escalating to the appropriate managers depending upon the business rules of the application.  ? Involved in Designing, Development and Implementation of CMS (Content Management System) Web Site and has been part of end user self- service portal management.  ? Designed CSS page layouts that are cross browser compatibility and standard compliant.  ? Configured Email notification and Alerts to notify users about specific activities in the system.  ? Involved in migration between various environments in Service-Now using updates sets and import Sets.  ? Worked very closely with ITSM process architect, customer personal, Business Analyst, IT architect, IT Support teams and other technical teams to ensure that business needs around implementation of ITSM process and Service-Now are in a controlled and predictive manner. ServiceNow Developer/Admin CDW - Chicago, IL July 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Implementation and Administration of ITSM (Incident, Problem and Change) Management Processes, Building Service Catalog, CMDB (Configuration Management Database) Maintenance and Custom Application Development in Service-Now.  ? Created Applications, Modules, tables, Columns as per the requirement specification in Service-Now.  ? Created Workflows, Sub flows and Tables on JakartaManaged inbound and outbound notifications.  ? Involve in migration between various environments in Service-Now using update sets and import sets between Helsinki, Istanbul and Jakarta.  ? Involved in creating users, groups, roles and load the data to Service-Now using import sets on daily, weekly or requirement basis.  ? Installed plugins for Customer Service Management CSM, csm for orders and users.  ? Created bidirectional, hierarchical relationships in CSM.  ? Developed the administrative UI using AngularJS, JSON.  ? Involved in redesigning the workflows using Service-Now workflow editor also involved in reconciliation of complicated workflows to simpler form.  ? Development of Service Catalog, which includes creating new Catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  ? Worked with reporting in configuring Service Level Agreements (SLA).  ? Created Record Producers, Order Guides and Catalog Client Scripts and Workflows.  ? Utilized Orchestration to extend workflows to interact with systems and applications outside the Service-Now instance.  ? Developed Transform maps to map values between Import Set and Service-Now tables in Jakarta.  ? Handling the Web responses and Parsing the XML and JSON data to load into tables using XML and JSON parsers in Service-Now.  ? Data Population for New Catalog Item, Maintenance of CI (Configuration Items) and workflows in CMDB module.  ? Worked on change management module by enhancing the tool to the stakeholders and made it easy to understand.  ? Worked on DISCOVERY, set up mid servers, and check for the connectivity.  ? Experience on CMDB, Discovery and integration with other external modules.  ? Involved in loading of data into CMDB using discovery and file imports.  ? Involved in upgrading version of Service-Now from Istanbul to Jakarta with focus on Service Catalog and have knowledge with patches for same version.  ? Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, Soap, web services, CSS, HTML5.  ? Worked on Glide AJAX and Glide Records for scripting and UI actions.  ? Worked on scheduling the report generation in Service-Now as per the requirements. ServiceNow Developer/Admin Capital One Services, VA September 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in requirement gathering sessions and creation of functional and technical design documents as per the requirements  ? Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Asset, Incident, Change, Problem, Knowledge, Service Catalog, CMDB in Service-Now.  ? Extensively worked on the Implementation, Configuration and maintenance of Business Rules, Client Scripts and UI Policies.  ? Extensively worked with integrations between Service-Now and third party application like BMC Remedy.  ? Involved in creating reports in Service-Now and schedule the report generation in Service-Now.  ? Developed custom probes and sensors to populate CMDB with pertinent asset data via JavaScript, Perl and Power Shell.  ? Expert in AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, prototype and Jelly scripting used in Service-Now.  ? Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, JSON, CSS, HTTP, and HTML5.  ? Involved in automating the routine production support activities using Power Shell and VB Scripting.  ? Worked on loading the data into Service-Now using import sets.  ? Imported data from various data sources (FILE, JDBC) using import sets and transform maps.  ? Experience in data modelling, database design, SQL and PL/SQL Programming.  ? Experience in developing Crystal reports and converting crystal reports to Business Intelligence and Reporting Tool (BIRT) reports for web applications. ServiceNow Admin Gannett Co January 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in integration and changes about the Service-Now tool.  ? As a Service-Now developer, generated Buttons and context menus using UI actions on forms and lists.  ? Creating scheduled tasks, monitoring the ticket queues and generating statistics.  ? Interacted with ITSM Tools like BMC Remedy, HP Service Manager and their implementation.  ? Involved in migration between various environments in Service-Now using Update Sets and Import Sets.  ? Worked with reporting and configuring service level agreements (SLAs).  ? Design and implement new functionality using Business Rules, UI Policies, and Access Lists etc.  ? Involved in Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident, Change, Problem, Knowledge, Service Catalog, CMDB in Service-Now.  ? Created data sources and loaded the Service-Now tables with different data formats.  ? Involved in creation of reports, dashboards in Service-Now  ? Strong working knowledge of various Service-Now components such as Service Desk, Change Management, Incident Management, Asset Management, Problem Management, CMDB, Knowledge Management, Mobility and Service Request Management.  ? Imported Configuration Items (CI) from third party applications using import set tables.  ? Hands on experience in ITSM platform (Service-Now, Remedy, Remedy Force).  ? Expertise in Design and developing custom applications in Service-Now and utilize its potential in PaaS (Platform-as-a-service) and SaaS (Software-as-a-service).  ? Designed email templates by using html, jelly scripting, and used them in notifications.  ? Provide advanced support for Service-Now by troubleshooting a variety of difficult software problems, implementing bug fixes and performing root cause analysis.  ? Experience on Glide and Jelly Scripting, Java Script, HTML, XML, AJAX. Web Developer Nexus Techno Systems - IN August 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Experienced with Design Patterns Model View Controller (MVC).  ? Involved in system design process, utilized Rational Rose for design and detailed documentation of Use Case Diagrams, Structure Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams.  ? Analyzed of the specifications provided by the Client.  ? Preparing High Level Design Documentation.  ? Implemented Struts frame work.  ? Done the JavaScript validations for the user input screens.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript for designing and interfacing the web application.  ? Worked with application and component groups to integrate into the application infrastructure.  ? Packaged and deployed the entire application code to integration testing environment for all the releases.  ? Build process with ANT framework to build and deploy the application.  ? Deployed the application on a WebSphere 6.x server.  ? Tested the entire System per the Use Cases using JUnit. Education Bachelor's Skills Database (3 years), HTML5 (3 years), ITIL (4 years), JavaScript (6 years), JQuery (4 years)