Application Programmer Application Programmer Application Programmer - Bank of America Merrill Lynch New York, NY Work Experience Application Programmer Bank of America Merrill Lynch January 2019 to Present • Work as part of digital marketing team to manage various company websites and pages.  • Use CMS, Adobe Experience Manager, to implement daily changes to the different sections and pages on the company website.  • Create and add new pages to the company's business solutions website.  • Use knowledge of programming languages and technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript to debug, adjust and create new content. Web Developer January 2017 to Present • Created a Bootstrap based wedding website for a company that also used HTML5, CSS3, vanilla JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used a front-end stack of HTML5, CSS3 and vanilla JavaScript to create a photography website with a mobile-first design for a client. (http://iqbalphotographynyc.com/) Front End Developer & Writer Hoop-Ball September 2017 to April 2019 • Used knowledge of front-end languages like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript/jQuery to add changes to the company website.  • Navigated through back-end stack often and gained an understanding of PHP and phpMyAdmin.  • Gained a working knowledge of React by adjusting pre-written code for existing pages.  • Tested new plug-ins to ensure compatibility with the site's themes and other plug-ins.  • Implemented improvements to the site's busiest areas like the forum and blurb pages.    Freelance Web Developer Education Software Engineering Intensive New York Code and Design Academy 2018 B.S. in Political Science in Political Science Queens College 2016 Skills JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, PHP, PYTHON, FLASK, React, Front-End, UI, Front End Links https://github.com/awalia1 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Proficient in HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Experience with jQuery, AJAX, Ruby on Rails, API's and Bootstrap.  • Understanding of responsive design, MVC, WordPress, databases and version control.  • Knowledge of React, SQL, Python, Flask, PHP and more.