ServiceNow Developer/Admin ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin ServiceNow Developer/Admin - KPMG New York, NY • Around 8 of experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC , quality management systems and project life cycle processes.  • 4 years of experience in ServiceNow platform as both Developer and Administrator  • Configured Applications using Service-Now tool used in ITIL Management. Strong understanding of ITIL V3. Deep functional and technical knowledge of the Service Now platform as well as experience delivering medium to large-scale Service Now implementations.  • Experience in Installation and Configuration of different modules of Service-Now.  • In-depth knowledge of the technical implementation of Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Catalog, Configuration Management, Reporting, Discovery and Integrations.  • Worked on End-to-End implementation of CMDB module using manual data load using Import Sets and Transform Maps, along with accurate data population from Discovery and other third-party tools such as SCCM, and AWS Cloud  • Adding, understanding existing Help Desk and Customer Service Management System to migrate from existing to Service Now.  • ServiceNow applications implemented: Incident, Problem, Change, Configuration, Asset Management, Software Asset Management, Contract Management and Procurement.  • Hands - on experience in implementation of various IT processes on ServiceNow such as PPM and other ServiceNow modules.  • Deftness in carrying out implementation, troubleshooting, development and configuration of BMC Remedy and ServiceNow Applications.  • Strong technical knowledge of AR System Platform and ITSM Products (Incident Management, Change Management, Problem Management, Asset Management, SLM, SRM, CMDB, AIE)  • Functional knowledge, implementation and configuring of ServiceNow CMDB, Discovery as per the client's requirement.  • Functional knowledge and implementation experience of IT Service Management (ITSM) frameworks and demonstrated project management skills and experience working directly with customers and clients.  • Strong technical knowledge on Java scripting, Web APIs which includes SOAP and REST.    • Visual Source Safe, Rational Clear Case, SharePoint  • Experience in Application Architecture, Analysis, Technical Design, Development, Implementation, Performance Tuning, Testing, Configuration Management and Release/Build management in all stages of Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of software applications using J2EE technologies.  • Involved in implementation of Service Portal and Configure Widgets and DashBoards by instance.    • Gathered requirement for SLA and configured in ServiceNow Development and design of Self-Service Portal.  • Familiarity with ServiceNow Orchestration, Performance Analytics, and HR Service Management modules.    • Worked with different bug tracking tools like JIRA, Remedy, Clear Quest and Bugzilla.  • Provided technical documentation for the specific projects guided by the Manufacturing and Engineering departments.  • Configuration and customization Service Portal, Web Pages, Widgets and DashBoards  • Involved in Implementing of CSM with Customer Self Service, Connecting to Other Departments, sending proactive Targeted Communications, Automating Repetitive Requests.  • Authored technical documentation and best practices for the help desk knowledge base.  • Full understanding of SDLC, RUP, Agile, SCRUM Methodologies and process.  • Experience in Implementation, understanding, performance and configuring Event management and Orchestration as per the requirements.  • ITIL V3 Certification.  • ServiceNow Admin Certification.  • Manual Tests. Involved in Requirement Management, Peer reviews, Inter group coordination and Training Programs Good analytical, problem solving Work Experience ServiceNow Developer/Admin KPMG - New York, NY January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created Applications, Modules, Tables, and Columns as per the requirement specifications in ServiceNow.  • Develop and manage application code, User Interface, and third-party integration components.  • Experience in performing the core configuration tasks including system policies, business rules and client scripts.  • Development of Service Catalog which includes creating new Catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Created and moved update sets to different Service Now instances.  • Well-versed in performing day to day activities of the administration of the Service-Now tool and maintaining the business services and configuration item relationships in Service-Now tool.  • Involved in Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident, Change, Problem, Knowledge, Service Catalog and CMDB in ServiceNow.  • Created Record Producers, Order Guides and Catalog Client Scripts and Work flows.  • Worked on Discovery tool and set up mid servers and check for the connectivity, expertise in troubleshooting Discovery tool.  • Involved in the ServiceNow instance upgrade activities.  • Involved in LDAP integration with ServiceNow for obtaining users and groups.  • Integrated with Active Directory using LDAP for authentication and loaded users, groups and roles into Service Now.  • Created Configuration items (CI), service catalog for service portals.  • Hands on Experience in Designing the Network design Methodology configuration and worked on Devices and as well as the Configurable Items (CI's).  • Hands on Experience in customizing the Service Watch in defining the CI Types, Entry Points and Discovery patterns in the Menu bar and good experience on Monitoring definitions  • Experience in Web Services, Rest, SOAP, WSDL.  • Integrated ServiceNow with external SOAP and REST based web services.  • Created Workflows, Sub flows and Tables on both Fuji and Eureka. Managed inbound and outbound notifications in Fuji and Eureka.  • Worked with windows team, network team and Asset Management team in order to check for the data collected through discovery is accurate.  • Involved in redesigning the workflows using ServiceNow workflow editor also involved in reconciliation of complicated workflows to simpler form.  • Utilized Orchestration to extend workflows to interact with systems and applications outside the ServiceNow instance.  • Developed Transform maps to map values between Import Set and ServiceNow tables.  • Handling the Web responses and Parsing the XML and JSON data to load into tables using XML and JSON parsers in ServiceNow.  • Involve in migration between various environments in Service Now using update sets and import sets.  • Hands on experience in AWS provisioning.  • Integrating AWS with a ServiceNow instance to receive Simple notification service.  • Installing AWS related plug-in and creating user records for AWS cloud activities.  • Experience on Amazon EC2,S3 and generating detailed reports on AWS billing application.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, Soap, web services, CSS, HTML5.  • Experience on working with Microsoft Azure and configuring the azure regions.  • Configured and performed discovery for the azure subscription.  • Experience in defining the SLAs (Service Level Agreements), notifications and reports.  • Complied, analyzed and presented system performance data using crystal reports.  • Knowledge in IT Operations Management (ITOM), Conducting tests required for Discovery.  • Experience in all modules of ITOM. (Discovery, Orchestration, Service Mapping, Event Management)    Environment: SERVICE NOW (Dublin, Fuji, Helsinki, Istanbul, Kingston), JavaScript, Java, Html, CSS, Glide Script, Web Services. ServiceNow Developer/ Administrator Carle Foundation - Urbana, IL January 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Used ITIL practices to implement Service Now applications in phase by phase approach.  • Worked with Incident Management application, Problem Management, Change Management applications in escalating issues, logging, catering, diagnosing, resolving, monitoring, and reporting in Service Now.  • Created SLAs and participated in running SLAs and responsible for closing successfully in Service Now.  • Scheduled SLAs as per scope of tickets in Service Now.  • Written Business Rules for customizing the tool in Service Now.  • Use Service Now reporting to analyze trends of major incidents and identify a high level of root cause for the major incidents.  • Customized forms and Lists of Incident and Problem Management tables in Service Now.  • Used Transform maps to import Data to Configuration Management in Service Now.  • Maintaining product catalog to import the configuration item records in Service Now.  • Managed project and was involved in resource management.  • Co-ordinate with documenting processes used agile methodology to write the Business Requirements documents and designed Functional specifications.  • Configured and developed custom UI components for Incident and Service Catalog.  • Involved in production support for all the service now and report related issues.  • Worked on Creating Users, Roles and Groups and load the data to service-now objects using import sets on daily, weekly, monthly and on request basis.  • Responsible in building Catalog items in Service Now.  • Designed and scheduled workflows and automated the frequent occurring activities across applications in Service Now.  • Handling Production support tickets and assigning them to appropriate teams.  • Used data sources to migrate the data from excel sheets to Service-Now through transform maps.  • Worked on integrating Service Now with LDAP and SSO Implementation.  • Customized Incident/Problem/Change/Service catalog applications using Business rules, Client scripts, Workflows in Service Now.  • Worked as a developer for an End-To-End development for a re-factoring project, resolved many issues and worked on CMDB Management to resolve issues.  • On requirement provided solutions to the Asset Management team in re-building the workflow for in and out of an asset.  • Responsible in building SLA and generating Reports in Service Now.  • Defined users, groups and roles and providing accessing permissions in Service Now.  • Participated in validating Form and Table level using UI Policies in Service Now.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, CSS, and HTML5.  • Created Email notifications and scheduled in Service Now.  • Written scheduled jobs in Service Now.  • SMTP configuration for outgoing mail from Service Now instance in Service Now.  • Design solutions to enhancement requests by developing with JavaScript and implementing workflows.    Environment: Service Now Tool, JavaScript, Jelly Scripting, HTML. ServiceNow Developer/Admin Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA February 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Experienced in the analysis, development and automation of various ITSM processes including Incident Management, Change Management, Asset Management, Service Request, Configuration Management including setup and configuration of MID Server and Configuration Item Discovery.  • Software configuration/ customization including UI customization, workflow administration, data imports, custom scripting, implementing new functionality, homepage customization.  • User Interface - Configure and maintain Forms, Lists, Views, UI Policy, UI Scripts, UI Actions, View Rules, Welcome Page Content, Map Pages and other UI elements for ServiceNow modules.  • Created new Business Rules/Script Includes/Client catalog script/Client Script.  • System Properties - My Company, UI, CSS, System, Email, Approval, LDAP, Application, Security, Users, and Groups.  • ServiceNow application development; including creation and configuration of Service Catalogs, Email Notifications, Data imports and exports and Reports.  • Manage system configurations, gather and document user and process requirements, develop workflow customizations, and support quality assurance teams.  • Perform core configuration tasks.  • Exporting and importing data in XML files.  • Establish and interact with the configuration management database (CMDB), and manage data with import sets, update sets and transform maps.  • Document business requirements/ process and build solutions.  • Modified Operational/Production/Resolution Categorization structure per Customer desired work flow  • Environment: ServiceNow, Java Script, JSON, JQuery, Web Services, SOAP, SQL, XML, Angular JS, Windows 7. Customized and created workflows for change management, knowledge management and for service catalog items  • Monitored and performed ServiceNow admin activities, which involves group, user administration.  • Worked on automated workflow, created training documents, trained personnel, updated processes and procedures  • Successfully managed and developed large-scale implementations of ServiceNow across multiple processes and applications for clients in multiple verticals.  • Orchestrated the efforts of vendors, and internal divisions/departments to internalize new IT Asset Management processes  • Managing ServiceNow (Change Management) to automate and standardize business processes for all Go-Lives. Consolidating all global IT to a single system of record.  • Involved in change and release to production touch points, incident and problem management processes  • Involved in operation, requirements identification and documentation, preliminary and detailed system definition, system design reviews  • Integrated SCCM in ServiceNow  • Involved in MID Servers for granted access to the SNMP devices by the ACL  • Implementing ServiceNow Discovery and CMDB and integrating it with Change management  • Budget management for all ITSM, Service desk and QA departments. ServiceNow Developer Client-United Health Care - Milwaukee, WI January 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Assisting client implementing the MSP (managed service provider) instance for Service-Now and domain separation for Service-Now instances.  • Working with client and functional requirements within service now.  • Facilitating rollout of new applications and modules.  • Worked with windows team, network team and asset team in order to check for the data collected through discovery are accurate.  • Design and implement new functionality using business rules, UI policies, and access lists etc.  • Service catalog and request workflow design and configuration.  • Created various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management, Service Requests and SLA's.  • The service we also provide to clients is a semi managed service for administering their service desks that has been implemented. This includes various administration tasks within service desk software.  • Created buttons and context menus both on form and lists using UI actions.  • Designed many email templates by using html and jelly scripting and used them in notifications  • Created new business rules/script includes/client catalog script/client script.  • Configured chat functionality for service desk ticketing queue.  • Created transform maps for importing CMDB data.  • Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts  • Imported many CI's using import set tables  • Imported active directory to service now using data sources.  • Created data sources and loaded the Service-Now tables with different data formats  • Created transform maps both automatic field mapping and scripting.  • Also worked on asset management and loaded the data into it.  • Integrated fire eye tool with service-now using email integration i.e. Inbound actions scripting.  • Worked on the integration of service now with Siebel, integrated service catalog and incident module.  • Used JMS integration to fulfill this requirement, worked on scheduled jobs and mid server script includes to fulfill the requirements.  • Environment: ServiceNow, XML, HTML, Windows 7, CSS, AJAX. Java/J2EE Developer Kodiak Networks June 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked directly with user groups in analyzing and specifying business requirements for the design and development of project.  • Suggested and advised clients to tactfully alter workflow of application to increase the efficiency and ease of use.  • Designed and Developed user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Extensively used JavaScript for client side validations.  • Experience with input validation using JavaScript.  • Worked on design of interfaces using web services of external applications.  • Developed application based on SDLC Software Development Life Cycle  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, JSP.  • Developed UI, which enhanced user efficiency in using the functionality defined after business analysis.  • Designed intuitive responsive web pages using the concept of negative margins and percentages.  • Experience with UI designing for open source CMSs like word press, magneto, joomla etc.  • Designed cross browser compatible web pages.  • Redesigned several web pages with better interface and features.    Environment: HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Oracle 11g , media queries, jQuery. WEB Designer/ Developer CSC Corp - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Planning of Website design, scoping goals, design and functionality.  • Site map creation and navigation categorizing content.  • Work with graphic artist and copywriters in content creation.  • Setting up server and hosting plans for clients.  • Ensure backups and security are in place for websites.  • Setup metadata and image optimization.  • Html, CSS and JavaScript for prototyping.  • WordPress design and development.  • Website migration and cloning.  • Client training and website maintenance.  • Customer service and client meetings.  • Communicate with clients about design choices, technical issues, scheduling, etc.  • Update existing website.  • Make older website mobile-responsive and compliant with current best practices.  • Troubleshoot and fix display and functionality issues.  • Add new features, such as forms, menus, news feeds, event listings, ad sections, and user-editable content blocks  • Update content, styles, accessibility, and usability. Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Jakarta (Less than 1 year), Oracle (1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year)