UX/UI Developer UX/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UX/UI Developer - Johnson & Johnson Princeton, NJ • Around 6 years of IT professional experience as a UI Web Developer in Web-Designing, User Interface development, integrating, implementing of highly transactional and scalable web applications using web technologies.  • Involved in all the phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), such as Analysis, Designing, Developing, Integrating, Implementing and testing of Client-Server and Web-based applications.  • Development experience with Agile methodologies, scalable platforms using XHTML, HTML4.01/5, DHTML, CSS2/3, JavaScript, Angular.js/Angular5, react.js, Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap.  • Experience in developing the web content having the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and browser compatibility with W3C standards.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting the code using Firebug, IE Tester, and Chrome Developer Tools and exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers.  • Design & implement cross-browser compatible web application using Handlebar templates, CSS,  • JavaScript (jQuery) and Lodash. Expertise in using version control systems subversion (SVN), GITHUB and Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma, along with integration testing Chrome Inspector to fix bugs and worked closely with QA  • Experience in relating the User Interface to underlying objects models using the MVC (model view Controller) design pattern.  • Expertise in using XML, JSON and AJAX to link with back-end applications.  • Expertise in writing the custom directives in Angular5 and developing applications using the frameworks like Bootstrap, Angular5, Angular Material (Grids, Toolbars, Panels and Buttons etc., )  • Strong experience with Cross Browser Compatibility issues and Optimization for web, including CSS Sprites and best practices.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and ReactJS.  • Hands on experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS/Angular5, ReactJS.  • Experienced in using Angular5 Template directives, Routing and navigation, Components, Services and Data Binding.  • Developed a new high-profile project by using Angular5, Web pack, Babel and Angular CLI.  • Creating TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component-based architecture provided by Angular 5.  • Hands on experience with JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, XML, CSS, Ajax. Work Experience UX/UI Developer Johnson & Johnson - Bridgewater, NJ March 2018 to Present Project: PANGEA Cross Reference (X-Ref) Tables Maintenance.  Description: Cross Ref. tables handles the information related to 'Finance' stored in the database. We built an application that allows the user for modifications of the tables by performing various operations like Add/Edit, Upload/Download and Delete the records through the web application based on the Security AD groups.  Responsibilities:  • Developed a complex web application which holds all the database tables related to the project "PANGEA".  • Part of the development team of the Java micro services namely RESTful API's. To consume the global/private generated API services in the UI application that act as a bridge to interact with the database and reflect the changes made by user at all levels in the Enterprise Data Grid (EDG)  • Developed security system where it allows the user to perform the operations based on the level of authentication (Read/Write access)  • Responsible for setting up the project from scratch using the technologies like Angular5, Typescript, Nodejs, Rx js, Susy, Tridion, HTML5, CSS3, Angular Material.  • Worked with LESS which is a CSS pre-processor for making CSS that is more maintainable and extendable.  • Performed a lot of DOM manipulation using native JS and jQuery for loading and manipulating dynamic content on webpages.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.JS, and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Developed a fully functional login page for the company's user facing website with complete UI and validations.  • Built UI development environments and workflows mainly using grunt.js  • Developed front-end UI using AngularJS, NodeJS, grunt, html5, css3, bootstrap, canvas, Javascript, jQuery, and ajax.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Worked on Grunt, bower and angular.js frameworks.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML.  • Implemented XML parsing and JSON parsing for data handling on different application.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.  • Developed and maintained build script using Apache ANT and Maven and MS Build to perform builds efficiently.  • Used Grunt to perform repetitive tasks such as minification, compilation, unit testing  • Used UI based features like geolocation to create small web applications for the website.  • Modified code for different browsers such as IE, Firefox, Chrome, and Safari to resolve numerous cross browser compatibility issues related to CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used GIT as version control management system.  Environment: Planet 9, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, Angular5, Angular CLI, Jasmine, NodeJS, Tridion CMS, Susy, Webpack, Spring. UI Developer Johnson & Johnson - Bridgewater, NJ July 2017 to February 2018 Project: MENSEN.  Description: MENSEN is a Material/Supplier Event Notification system to help the users in the J&J warehouse/sites to manage the incident if there are any issues on the received/supplying goods. In this, we built a web/mobile application in which operator will raise an incident if there is any issue with the goods along with the supported images/docs and the site manager receives a notification regarding the incident and view all the details regarding the incident and perform further steps. In this system there is a capability for a manager to manage the data like site details, defect details or material details by performing various operations like Add/Edit, Upload/Download and Delete the records based on the Security AD groups.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Product Planning, gathering requirements and developing web/mobile application using Agile / Scrum approach.  • Developed client-side applications using ANGULAR.JS, HTML5, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, AJAX, JSON, JSP.  • Worked on Angular.JS to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Developed the functionality for communicating between the modules mostly involved in VIEW and CONTROLLER section of MVC pattern.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework and involved in developing Single Page web Applications using this framework.  • Involved in implementing AngularJS controllers, directives, components, factory and service resources, routings and events.  • Knowledge and experience in Adobe CQ Content Management System (CMS) on how to create a page by using basic template and CQ components.  • Utilized third party libraries such as LoDash.  • Worked with CSS preprocessor SASS, focusing on reusability and modularity.  • Written test cases in Jasmine and used Karma as a test runner.  • Integrated the front-end UI to the back end using Spring MVC via RESTful API's (Micro Services)  • Used SVN tortoise version control system on day-to-day basis to maintain the code history.  • Used Bower as a package manager to manage the frameworks, libraries, assets and • utilities required for our application development.  • Used NPM, GRUNT for UI task runner and experienced in using the GRUNT commands for building and deploying the project.  • Used ATLASSIAN JIRA as a ticketing tool for raising tickets in-order-to get access for any test environments or for doing the build and running the work flows. UI Developer Johnson & Johnson - Bridgewater, NJ January 2017 to June 2017 Project: Next Generation Automation Tool  Description: As a part of UX/Mobility team, we developed a tool that handles the SAP data for Audit log monitoring with Highcharts website starting from Analysis, Designing, Developing, Integrating, Implementing, testing and deploying the application to production.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages using Planet9.  • Involved in launching up the project from scratch using the web technologies namely Angular5, Typescript, Nodejs, HTML5, CSS3, Angular Material.  • Created a boiler plate for the project setup initially with good standards so that this boiler plate can be reused for other upcoming Angular projects in the company.  • Used the dynamic template loader to load the templates based on the Tridion requests.  • Created the reusable Angular components using Angular CLI and followed the TDD writing the test cases while development.  • Utilizing of Highcharts/Highmaps for populating the SAP data.  • Worked on creating the layouts using Angular Material CDK.  • Utilized Angular CDK for layouts, modals, navigation.  • Used Node.Js to setup a proxy service and interact with the Tridion without any cross domain (CORS) issues.  • Worked with DevOps team for setting up the environment to deploy the application.  • Updating the content in Tridion and publishing the new templates to environments.  • Followed the CI/CD process and as part of this process I was responsible to do the builds and deploys on daily basis.  • Interaction with business team and product owners to demo the application progress on a sprint basis.  • Followed Agile Methodology and worked on sprint basis to deliver the work.  • Fixed the cross-browser compatibility issues for Safari, Firefox and IE. Web Developer Digital Insight - Redwood City, CA October 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented various Employee Self Service front end UI Applications developed for easy lookup and creation of HR Records for various Employees.  • Involved in development of Session Facade objects using Stateless session beans (EJB 2.0) for having single point of control for a business service.  • In compliance with Software development life cycle (SDLC), was responsible for creating documents e.g. Functional Specification and System Design based on Business Requirement Document provided by business analyst.  • Designed and developed client-side GUI using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Developed UI pages using HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, AJAX based on the W3C standards.  • Involved in development of Servlets and JSPs using Apache Struts framework.  • Developed user interfaces using Tiles with JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Implemented Form Bean and the Action Servlet using the struts framework.  • Used CVS (Concurrent Versions System) for version controlling.  • Ability to rapidly prototype interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs.  • Understanding of application development lifecycle methodologies.  • Knowledge of human factors and usability, best practices for interface design  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client-side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  Environment: Java, Web service, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Eclipse, JSON, Rest Web Services Front End Developer Symantec - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Building applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, Angular JS and Bootstrap with MySQL database.  • Participated in development of a new business application for the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Integrated the frontend jQuery UI with backend REST API.  • Developed Object Oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client-side validations using jQuery functions.  • Developed source code to consume JSON response received through XHR/AJAX calls using jQuery.  • Implemented AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS based page layouts.  • Built responsive site using Bootstrap that fits devices of different visual sizes.  • Involved in Designing, Implementation, Maintenance and Testing of Databases and Web pages.  • Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS, HTML widgets / libraries for complex UI Controls.  • Used Java to perform server-side backend operations.  • Responsible for JavaScript / AJAX UI upgrades and improvements.  • Designed web pages using HTML, CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  • Facilitated User Testing sessions to solicit feedback on prototypes.  • Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with JUnit.  • Wrote the backend to modify the tags in the database using JSON for data transmission.  • Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  Environment: HTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, XML, MVC Framework, Angular JS, JAVA, Apache Tomcat, Notepad++, Sublime text, MySQL, SVN. Web Developer Sum Total Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  • Used jQuery extensively for event handling, DOM manipulation and cross-browser compatibility.  • Involved in development of User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery, AJAX, JSON.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines; Performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes.  • Worked on jQuery to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Handled browser compatibility issues in HTML, CSS and JavaScript for IE, Firefox and Chrome browsers.  • Extensively used Debugging JavaScript using Chrome developer Toolbar, Firebug.  • Developed the UI with extensive use of JavaScript, JSON and Ajax.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and jQuery.  • Designed user interface for portal for admin and users to interact with system using JSON, JavaScript, HTML4/5 and CSS2/3.  • Coordinate with Interface Design Architects for meeting accessibility standards at code level.  • Participate in the team on agile development cycle and followed the Scrum Methodology.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design and media queries.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Tested pages for cross-browser compatibility for Safari, Chrome, Firefox and IE by cross browser hacks and requirements.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Developed different jQuery component in MVC micro architecture framework which internally use various design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate, etc.  • Worked on CVS as a version control tool.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Responsive design, Grunt, Bower, NPM, Apache Tomcat. Education Bachelor's in Engineering Amrita University Masters Long Island University in NY Skills UI (5 years), USER INTERFACE (5 years), AJAX (5 years), CSS (5 years), JSON (5 years), Javascript, Front End, Angular, Front-End Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Web (UI) Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, DOM, JavaScript, Bootstrap,  Ajax, XML, JSON, jQuery    Databases Oracle, MySQL  Javascript Framework AngularJS/Angular 5, NodeJS, ReactJS  Developing Languages JavaScript, Typescript, Java    Frameworks Planet9, Neptune, Ionic.  Debugging Tools Chrome Inspector, FireBug, IE Tester  Web Servers Apache Tomcat, Web Logic, JBoss, Web Sphere  Version Control GIT, SVN    Developer Tools Eclipse, Sublime, Notepad++, WebStorm, Visual Studio Code, NetBeans    Environment Windows, Linux, Mac    Ticketing Tool JIIRA  Others Adobe CQ5 (CMS), Tridion CMS