Associate Programmer Analyst Associate Programmer Analyst Associate Programmer Analyst - DXC.technology Manchester, CT • Designed, developed and altered logical programming with Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts.  Involved in software development to modify, test and debug the programming files as client request. Ability  to create and mange multiple projects in parallel during critical time situations.  • Web developer with 2 years of experience in developing websites using different web technologies and  framework.  • Good working experience in design and developing complex user interfaces(UI) using HTML, developing  different pages and using CSS for look and feel of the entire web application.  • Experience in working with Version Control Tool like Git and web-based Git-repository tool like GitLab, I  have used tools to tracking changes in working programming files and coordinating work with other team  members.  • Result oriented, self driven, highly motivated, hungry to learn new technologies, methodologies, strategies  and process.  • Proficient understanding of algorithms, functions and data structures.  • Good verbal, written and communication skills. Work Experience Associate Programmer Analyst DXC.technology - Norwich, CT February 2017 to Present • Modification of company products to meet the needs of the client.  • Maintained and added new features to previously existing application using Java and C.  • Build the application using Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts such as: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction.  • Used HTML5 and CSS3 for creating responsive web application. Used JavaScript for validations and implemented business rules on client side.  • Interacted with Testing Team, to support and understand Regression Testing and System Testing to improve product quality.  • Involved in testing the application on a regular basis to improve the performance and provide bug free  application.  • Created basic documentation in work assignments such as Team Managements Sheet.  • Conducts routine quality assurance activities such as peer reviews. Web Developer A.V.M Infosys - Gujarat, IND September 2007 to October 2010 • Design and develop a secure website according to the latest standards and demands of clients.  • Design client's website, using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Develop project concept and ideal workflow. Updated the code, visual layout of existing websites.  • Testing a website before it goes live and identify any problems.  • Responsible for working with various operating systems and using development. technologies including  HTML, CSS. Worked with senior developers to manage complex projects. Junior Developer Intern 4eversoultions Tech - Gujarat, IND June 2007 to August 2007 • Involved in development for patient medicine record system for hospital pharmacy using Java.  • Involved in the software product development life cycle, including: design, coding, software testing and documentation. Suggest changes to improve established java application process. Education BS in Computer Science Central Connecticut State University - New Britain, CT January 2012 to May 2016 General Education Tunxis Community College - Farmington, CT June 2011 to December 2014 Bachelor of Science P.E.S College November 2003 to December 2007 Skills JAVA, C, HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, SCSS, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Node.js, GraphQL, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio, Git, Github, Gitlab, SQL, MySQL, MongoDB Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages: Java, JavaScript, C  Frontend Development: HTML, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, SCSS, ReactJS  Backend Development: Node.js, GraphQL  Database: SQL, MySQL, MongoDB  Developer Tools: Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio, IntelliJ IDEA CE  Operating Systems: Windows, Mac  Version Control: Git, GitHub, GitLab