Android/Ios Developer Android/Ios <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android/Ios Developer - T-Mobile Atlanta, GA • Over 8+ years of professional IT experience in Java/Android/IOS application development, testing & deployment in Consumer and Enterprise Applications.  • Experience in design and development of Rich Mobile Applications using JavaScript, Gerrit, JBOSS, XML, CSS3, and HTML5.  • Strong experience with iOS development using Objective C/Swift. Solid understanding of software development life cycle.  • Good experience as a developer in designing, developing, implementing, testing and publishing apps on iTunes Store. Built Rich User Interface applications, integrating with various Databases and Client-Server applications in iPhone/iPad (iOS 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 6.1, 7.0, 8.0 X Code 4.0, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 5.0, 6.0 Beta, 6.1) application development using objective-C, UI Kit, Core Location, Map Kit, Cocoa Touch and Cocoa Service Frameworks.  • Strong knowledge of Java for Android OR Objective C, cocoa for iOS  • Expertise in creating and custom UI Views, Table Views, Tab Bars and Navigation Bar which are some basic functionality in a Multi view Application.  • Experienced in working with Storyboard and Interface Builder.  • Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Requirements Gathering, Project Design, Development, Support and maintenance phases to meet requirement of project and familiar with agile software development methodologies as well.  • Proficient with Java, C++, Objective C and Android SDK version Android1.5 to Android4.4(Gingerbread, Honey comb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat).  • Expertise in developing applications for android operating system using Eclipse IDE, SQ Lite, Java, XML, Android SDK and ADT plugin.  • Knowledge to build apps with Xamarin Studio, Accelerator, Qt and Cordova.  • Experience with SOAP, REST and JSONHTML5, Phone gap  • Developed apps using various iOS design patterns (MVC, Delegation, Target-action and Slide-out Navigation).  • Highly expertise in integrating Push Notifications and Network Connectivity.  • Extensive experience in building mobile applications using Android framework APIs such as (Location, Camera, Animations, Maps).  • Experience in developing applications using Third-Party APIs such as ESPN, YouTube and Social Networking such as Facebook and Twitter.  • Experience in working with scalable Android UI  • Experience in the use of SCM tools (SVN, Git, Maven), best practices and continuous integration  • Experienced in database systems like Oracle10g/11/12c,MySQL, and MS SQL Server 2005/2008/2010/2012/2014/2016 server to manage tables and created views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, and triggers for the fast retrieval and manipulation of data.  • Experience in Graphic designing in Adobe Photoshop, MS Visio and Front Page for rich user friendly front end contents.  • Strong knowledge on Mobile app interfaces using Java services, Cordova, Google and open source API for Weather, Geo fencing, geo location weather, map.  • Experience in working with XML parser's, RESTful API's and server-side technologies like Apache and PHP.  • Experience in using SQ Lite Database, Content Providers and Sync Adapters for mobile data management.  • Experience on Android UI components such as Text View, List View, View Pager, Customized List View, Menus, Edit boxes, Buttons, Checkboxes, Dialog boxes, Alert boxes, Action bars, and Spinners for various layouts in Application development.  • Solid understanding of interfacing to back-end system using XML/JSON, REST API, OAUTH, etc.  • Experience in branching, pushing and merging codes with remote repository such as Git.  • Self-motivated and excellent abilities to learn new languages and other concepts quickly, excellent interpersonal skills and abilities to communicate with team players.  • Good understanding in Testing Mobile applications and bug tracking for the production team fixing.  • Proficient with UML Diagrams, Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams to design programming solutions. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Android/Ios Developer T-Mobile - Atlanta, GA February 2017 to Present Description: T-Mobile US is a wireless network operator in the United States. The German telecommunications company Deutsche Telekom (DT) is its majority shareholder. Its headquarters are located in Bellevue, Washington, in the Seattle metropolitan area. T-Mobile is the third largest wireless carrier in the United States. T-Mobile US provides wireless voice and data services in the United States, Puerto Rico and the network reaches 98 percent of Americans.    Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed test cases and tests scripts as per Requirement documents and Prepared RTM (Requirement Traceability Matrix).  • Responsible to qualify release compatible for IOS, Android, Mobile web, web.  • Participate in daily stand up meetings to report about scope of work, testing progresses, outstanding issues, blocking points and so on.  • Execute ADB commands to test the app on Android platform(major release components)  • Executed IOS native app, OS compatible (IOS 8 and 9 version).  • Performed UI, Regression, Functional and Back end testing for the applications.  • Web Accessibility testing by using JAWS screen reader.  • Working on technologies Ionic, Cordova, Angular JS and JavaScript  • Developed an application under J2EE Architecture using spring, Hibernate, Servlets and JSP.  • Involved in IOS app build (X Code), Postgre SQL, Post GIS and deploy to test locally and multiple registered devices.  • Implemented customized web view component to load an SWF file and HTML data.  • Involved in mobile testing using simulators, emulators, and actual android, iOS, and black berry devices.  • Knowledge of how to future-proof sites for HTML5 and CSS3, as well as knowledge of how to add modern-day techniques to display in older browsers.  • Worked on RESTful Web service calls, Linux Audio system (ALSA),XML and JSON parsing included in the project.  • Designing the web client by using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, EXT JS, and DOJO with JSON.  • Hands on experience with editor, debugging, native platform integration with Xamarin Studio.  • Unity is a flexible and powerful development platform for creating multiplatform 3D and 2D games and interactive experiences.  • Implemented the required GUI by making modifications to the xml files.  • Collaborated with the team by using the version controller GIT HUB.  • The early nineties and has managed to stay secure in the realm of widespread viruses, spyware and adware for all these years.  • Logged, Tracked, Evaluated and verified the applications test results using Test director to track, analyze and generated reports on them.  • Completed a relatively simple work-in-progress written with Xamarin iOS native tools (not Xamarin Forms).  • Handling XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser.  • Swift is a fast and efficient language that provides real-time feedback and can be seamlessly incorporated into existing Objective-C code  • Used Cocoa pods for dependency management, and fixed issues related to the Pod file  • Utilized AF Networking for REST API calls, in order to retrieve user and artist info  • Worked in all the aspects of iPhone and iPad applications development including designing for all types of screen sizes and orientations.  • Strong experience in Android application development involving User Interface development, Notifications, Content Provider, Intents, Services, and SQ Lite.  • Architected a customized network protocol used by client applications including Android, iOS and Windows Phone7 to communicate with cloud architectures.  • Experienced in monitoring and managing of Oracle instances using Enterprise Manager Grid Control (OEM grid).  • Have developed high performance interactive Java-Flash/Flex applications in various verticals including IT, Education, Healthcare, Telecom etc.  • Developed the Performance Evaluation Application GUI using flex , Action script  • Wrote Apache CXF REST services to add CMTS device.  • Developed the Web Services Client using SOAP, WSDL description to verify the credit history of the new customer to provide a connection.  • Developed code using Test Driven Development  • Developed web apps for iOS (iPhone) and Android using frameworks like jQ Touch, iWebKit.  • Extensively used the DOJO Toolkit to control and provide the rich functionality to GUI.  • Developing web application with Backbone.js and PHP Code Igniter framework.  • Implement modules into node.js to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Completely designed and coded in Flash using OOPS concepts.  • Installing and Configuring Eclipse and Web sphere application Server.  • Constructed custom View Controllers including Table Views with custom Table View Cells using Programmatic UI  • Developed code for the Custom Menus, Dialogs and Image Views, Push Notifications.    Environment: IOS 7.1/8.0 , iPad, iPhone, UI Kit, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, J Query, SQ Lite, Google Maps, AML and SQL Databases, Junit, GPS Services, X code 6.0/6.3/6.4, Objective-C, SDK 7.1, using ARC, Core Data and Auto Layout, Git Hub for version control, XML, JSON Frameworks: UI Kit, Core Location, Agile Scrum Methodology, Eclipse IDE, REST Web Services, Crashlytics, Retrofit , Action-Bar, Xamarin Studio. Android/Ios Developer Ominto - Dallas, TX December 2015 to January 2017 Description: Ominto, Inc. (NASDAQ: OMNT) is a leader in global online Cash Back shopping. Its personalized shopping plat form is used to deliver coupons, deals and Cash Back to shoppers each time they make online purchases on the Company's Partner Program websites, DubLi.com and Ominto.com. Ominto partners with thousands of global, online merchants and travel booking sites to deliver relevant, personalized saving opportunities to its shoppers. Ominto has corporate and non-profit partners in more than 40 countries and serves shoppers in over 100 countries, helping them save time and money in tandem with their current buying habits.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in doing AGILE practices, attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings. Worked with an Agile, Scrum methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work with every iteration.  • Involved in requirement gathering, UI design and development.  • Involved in IOS app build (x code) and deploy to test locally and multiple registered devices.  • Involved in Core Data Framework using SQ Lite.  • Built native IOS and Android applications using Android SDK, IOS SDK in Xamarin.  • Developed critical tools for this project like Customized Navigation bar, Page control and Scroll view.  • Worked on Web Service calls, XML and JSON parsing.  • Linux is supported by a huge Open Source development community that spans continents and companies.  • Execute ADB commands to test the app on Android platform ( major release components)  • Performed UI, Regression, Functional and Back end testing for the applications.  • Web Accessibility testing by using JAWS screen reader.  • Logged, Tracked, Evaluated and verified the applications test results using Test director to track, analyze and generated reports on them.  • Implemented Fragments to make the app usable on both Smart phone and tablets.  • Developed the app to adapt to different orientations and various resolutions (Idpi/mdpi/hdpi) based on the device.  • Added Omniture and BI events for Tablet.  • Added parser classes for Tablet which involved parsing JSON feeds.  • Implemented data caching mechanism.  • Used Junit for testing.  • Involved in development and enhancements of features to restrict the usage based on Authorization and Authentication tokens.  • Worked on the "On the Road" section of the app to provide the user information regarding their proximity to the closest Locksmith/Tow, Taxi, Rental Car, Gas Station, and Hotel and also to the closest State Farm Agent.  • Worked extensively with Objective C and Cocoa frameworks.  • Worked with UI Action Sheets, UI Table View, Custom Cells, UI Scroll Views, Navigation Controllers, delegates and protocols.  • Worked with Objective C, Swift and Cocoa frameworks.  • Worked with Cocoa Frameworks, which includes UI Kit, Car Play, Watch, Home Kit, SiriKit, Foundation, UI Image Picker, and UI Date Picker.  • Updated backend validations to meet tablet specific requirements.  • Provided subsequent releases which included feature changes, enhancements and bug fixes.  • Developed test plans and performed peer reviews of deliverable documents and test cases.  • The Jenkins Android Emulator plugin will automatically download not only the Android SDK but also any system image required for the device configuration you want to run your tests against.  • Worked on iPhone SDK and internet connection Protocols.  • Used a Test-Driven Development (TDD) environment in a Scrum development methodology to provide end to-end development.  • Used AF Networking to connect RESTful API services and maintained background image downloads, uploads, chat conversations, and messages from system.  • Used Google Maps API to develop location based services for the App  • Worked closely with the testing team.  • Worked on Agile based development model.  • Familiar with Core Animation / UI animation concepts.  • Worked with GIT to checkout and update the codebase changes.  • Implemented Accessibility and Localizations on the application.    Environment: iOS 7.1, X Code 6.0/6.3, UI Kit, Cocoa Touch, Foundation, Storyboards, XIBs Auto Layout constraints, Paging, Size Classes, Map Kit, Core Location, iPad, iPhone, Objective-C, JSON, XML, HTML5, CSS3, REST, JavaScript, j Query, SQ Lite, Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, Google Maps, AML and SQL Databases, Junit, GPS Services, Xamarin, MK Annotations, GCD, Instruments, Break points, NS Log, LLDB, Agile, SCRUM. Android/Ios Developer Atmel Corporation - San Jose, CA February 2014 to November 2015 Description: Atmel Corporation is an American-based designer and manufacturer of semiconductors, founded in 1984. The company focuses on embedded systems built around microcontrollers.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the Ses Q application on iPhone/iPad using X code, iOS6 and objective-C.  • Worked closely within a cross functional team of testers and developers.  • Worked on web service calls, XML and JSON parsing included in the project.  • Worked with UI Kit Framework for development and maintenance.  • For managing the memory Automatic Reference Counting (ARC) is used.  • Worked on low-level Language like C and C++ for ensuring the security and memory management.  • Used Core Data Framework for local storage purpose in SQ Lite in few primary projects.  • Formatted the Data as per Business rule to display in UI.  • Followed a work data flow principle for design and development.  • Reported progress/challenges to onsite project lead.  • Worked extensively with Objective C and Cocoa frameworks.  • Worked extensively on table view controller and made customized table view cells according to the client.  • Used build tools such as Ant, Maven.  • Pre-fetching data for different views for smooth screen transitioning.  • Followed a work data flow principle for design and development.  • Worked with Backend team to display the correct data format in devices.  • Worked closely within a cross functional team of testers and developers.  • Debugging issues at onsite whenever required.  • Worked with LLDB and X code for debugging.  • Worked with GIT to checkout and update the codebase changes.  • Used the same XIB to design for iPhone 5 and older iPhones by using Auto-layout.  • Integrated a web-based content made with HTML5 on a Native app using UI Web View  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript.  • Responsible for code optimization and testing of the website across different browsers.  • Implemented interaction between frontend and backend using the JSON object.  • Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server.  • Wrote extensive HTML, CSS2, CSS3 and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages using Eclipse.  • Involved in the development of Dynamic loading of web pages using Ajax calls with server pages.    Environment: IOS 6.0 and 6.1(iPhone SDK), Mac OS X, Objective C, X Code 4.6 and 5, 6.3 Agile Methodology, HTML5, CSS, SOAP, JavaScript, J Query. Android/Ios Developer Sterling Insurance - Brentwood, TN November 2012 to January 2014 Description: Sterling Insurance Company is located in Cobleskill, New York. Since 1895 we have been providing quality insurance protection to New Yorkers with an ever expanding array of product offerings.    Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed test cases and tests scripts as per Requirement documents and Prepared RTM (Requirement Traceability Matrix).  • Responsible to qualify release compatible for IOS, Android, Mobile web, web.  • Involved in IOS app build (code) and deploy to test locally and multiple registered devices.  • Execute ADB commands to test the app on Android platform ( major release components)  • Executed IOS native app, OS compatible (IOS 8 and 9 version).  • Implemented the required GUI by making modifications to the xml files.  • Implemented customized web view component to load an SWF file and HTML data.  • Worked on RESTful Web service calls, XML and JSON parsing included in the project.  • The Linux operating system has been around since the early nineties and has managed to stay secure in the realm of widespread viruses, spyware and adware for all these years.  • Apple has nicked a number of features in creating Swift, its recently unveiled programming language for IOS.  • Collaborated with the team by using the version controller GIT HUB.  • Logged, Tracked, Evaluated and verified the applications test results using Test director to track, analyze and generated reports on them.  • Handling XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser.  • Swift is a fast and efficient language that provides real-time feedback and can be seamlessly incorporated into existing Objective-C code  • Performed UI, Regression, Functional and Back end testing for the applications.  • Web Accessibility testing by using JAWS screen reader.  • Participate in daily stand up meetings to report about scope of work, testing progresses, outstanding issues, blocking points and so on.  • Developed the activities and UI layers.  • Knowledge of how to future-proof sites for HTML5 and CSS3, as well as knowledge of how to add modern-day techniques to display in older browsers.  • Performed different types of functional and nonfunctional testing such as exploratory, GUI, usability, smoke, regression, browser compatibility, platform compatibility, boundary and security testing on different mobile devices with different OS versions.    Environment: Android SDK 4.1, SQ Lite 3.6, Eclipse IDE 3.5, Android API's, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON, HTML, CSS, SQ Lite, GPS service, Log cat, Windows 7. Web Developer HTC Global Services - IN February 2011 to October 2012 Description: HTC Global Services is primarily an IT services and IT solutions company with a major presence also in BPO services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, System study and designing of the project.  • Developed front-end screens with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP's.  • Extensively did client side validations using JavaScript and developed the required Servlets.  • Optimized Websites, mobile channels, social channels using AEM (communique5).  • Worked in designing network applications through architectural style with REST  • Participated in daily meeting for enhancing the features for the portal.  • Participated in Code review and Quality Assurance.  • Used JDBC, application server provided transaction API for accessing data from the Oracle the using standard statements.  • Developed stores procedures, triggers, functions and database tables in Oracle database.  • Worked on developing a suitable GUI for ATM locator.  • As a developer, coordinated with onsite team and client in understanding the business process and requirement understanding.  • Worked with SCRATCH as an authoring tool to create a personal sprites and Backgrounds.  • Expertise in event driven programming with multiple active objects(sprites) in SCRACTH  • Preparation and review of Unit Test Plan, Unit Testing, Test Results review and other quality related work.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, DOM, DHTML, Oracle database, Eclipse, SQL, SVN, GIT, Windows XP/07 and MS Office. Java Developer Visu Cybertech Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2009 to January 2011 Description: Vidura is a hi-end technology tool, which provides for total management of the school administration, effectively and efficiently.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the client in understanding the requirements.  • Walkthrough the Detailed Designs and General Designs.  • Coordinated with the team member on different issues and referrals.  • Deployed the jar files on the tomcat Server.  • Provided Onsite Support after the system went Live.  • Developed the User Interaction Screen using HTML and JSP.  • Developed the module to handle the access roles of the users for front-end system.  • Wrote Stored Procedures for MQSQL Database.  • Worked under the UNIX environment.  • Developed test cases for unit testing.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, MQSQL, UNIX, Tomcat. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in TOOLS AND TECHNOLOGIES Quality Center