UI Leader UI Leader UI Leader Bowling Green, KY Accomplished UI Designer reaching for a challenging and rewarding full time Front-End Designer position, where I can make a vital contribution to the company I am working for. Work Experience UI Leader Scoppechio - Louisville, KY February 2018 to August 2019 As a UI lead for the scoppechio advertising agency, Primarily responsible in leading and guiding  The scopechhio web developer team. All development for each client was under my oversight and Review. Responsible for ensuring each website platform for customer was user friendly  Oriented, visually pleasing, and effective with the best cutting edge technology.    Developed and deployed all final web systems with multiple design n deploy mechanisms: PHP, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, ASP.NET Framework, FireFtp, Wordpress, cs7, Adobe Design technologies Web Producer/Team Leader USAA.com - San Antonio, TX December 2015 to December 2018 Production Responsibilities included devising an application and form that enables users to check specific insurance eligibility. Also was responsible for construction of a web application which gives users the opportunity to apply for a USAA credit card conducive to their credit history. Developed/Devised structure for products & banking, and other vital pages as well.    ? Configured, transitioned, and developed USAA application systems with multiple design mechanisms: PHP, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, ASP.NET Framework, Wordpress, Adobe Design technologies  ? Primary responsibility also included mandatory meeting with business leaders to ensure all web based objectives were delivered in a timely manner. Focused to ensure that the business side of USAA team was satisfied and pleased with visual design their clients would receive.  ? Delegated wireframes, mockups, and other small design projects to various designers to help achieve faster deliverable times. UI Designer/ Developer NEW WESTERN ACQUISITONS - Dallas, TX July 2016 to March 2017 Independently developed a new visually pleasing platform for the New Western Real estate company.  ? Design and Developed all new design concepts, logos, design structure, for total website overhaul  ? Using CSS, Wordpress, Php, and MySQL, Devised web forms and applications and database structure, for the new western management team. The system I developed enabled potential clients to search for lucrative real estate.  ? Front End technologies includes use of HTML 5, wordpress, Php, CSS 3 (SASS) Lead Web Architect American Airlines - Fort Worth, TX May 2013 to June 2014 Designed and developed(with javascript) a fully integrated web application for guests & users to book flights, hotels, and other accommodations.  ? Devised and created customizable template from scratch using HTML/CSS.  ? Met with Business Leaders to negotiate and construct user friendly templates that would appeal to their customers. Templates designed and drawn up in Photoshop, constructed with HTML, CSS, & javascript.  ? Front End technologies includes use of HTML 5, JAVASCRIPT CSS3, ASP.NET frameworks. UI Designer/ Developer Walgreens Company - Chicago, IL October 2011 to December 2013 Designed and developed a fully integrated web form for Walgreens clients to lookup prescriptions.  ? Worked with team members daily to discuss new strategies to make the walgreens online presence more beneficial to customers.  ? Constructed (with JSP) new Keyword Search form to enable all guests to search store related items or categories by a simple keyword..  ? Web technologies includes use of HTML 5, CSS 3 (SASS). (Standard design technologies i.e. ADOBE INDESIGN/PHOTOSHOP) UI Designer/ Developer Nashville.Com - Nashville, TN August 2009 to September 2011 Primary Role at Nashville.com was to maintenance city website. Edited and updated main content as well as developed new and striking photos that would help represent the hotspots of downtown Nashville. While I did construct some basic forms and applications, my primary role was to oversee the design presence of Nashville.com. Main use of the adobe suite package, as well as HTML, CSS, javascript. Worked with a team of of 6 designers and developers to devise a new and better website structure.    Summarization of Skills:  Proficiency in Html, CSS 3, Dhtml, Xhtml, Javascript, Php/Mysql, Asp, Jsp, Cgi.Adobe CS4, Macromedia MX, Macromedia Flash, Macromedia Freehand, Wordpress, Adobe In Design, Adobe Coldfusion, Adobe After effects, Ruby on Rails, WS3, Php Admin, Joomla, Excel. Skills .NET, HTML, PHP, XML, ASP Links http://www.prudentwise.com Additional Information ? Dedicated User interface designer with a Bachelor's Degree, offering a solid education background with over 10 years of industry experience  ? Highly proficient with Front End web development, Graphic Design, Professional Web Structure  ? Personal characteristics include designing and developing web platforms with passion, excellent communication skills, and a raw ability to lead and be a constructive team player.  ? Self-motivated with an unrelenting focus and a high drive to achieve the best results possible.    Knowledge & Skills Area:  Marketing Search Engine Optimization, Content Targeting  Information systems Windows, Mac  Development/Database ASP.NET PHP5, SiteCore, Wordpress, PHP/MYSQL  Other Technologies ADOBE software CS4, CS5, & Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, Html, Html5    Technical Summary:    Operating Systems: Windows XP, MAC  Languages:  .NET and .NET MVC JAVASRIPT CSS, CSS3 HTML/ HTML5  XML ASP.NET PHP JSP