Database Developer Database <span class="hl">Developer</span> Database Developer - American Red Cross Charlotte, NC Expert Software/ Web Developer of twenty five years dedicated to constantly improving tools and infrastructure to maximize productivity, minimize system downtime and quickly respond to the changing needs of the business. Work Experience Database Developer American Red Cross March 2019 to Present - Contractor NC  • Developed and maintain small Contact Management application written in VB.NET and WebForms.  • Developed Stored Procedures for the application using SQL Server 2008.  • Developed Concepts for new project using MVC with VB.Net and Bootstrap.  • Developed Database Schema for new project using SQL Server. Software Engineer SkyBitz Logitstics February 2018 to August 2018 SC  • Develop and maintain large application built in VB 6.  • Developed Stored Procedures for applications/reports using SQL Server 2008.  • Develop SSIS packages for ETL data loads for Customers.  • Develop SSRS reports for application when needed.  • Develop C# application to look through logs from application and gather them based on date and search criteria.  • Develop Services that transferred our SQL data to be sent to DM2 to create orders for customers who used this platform.  • A part of agile team that worked in 2-week long sprint runs. Senior Application Developer Classica Homes - Charlotte, NC July 2017 to November 2017 • Develop and redesign new Website via MVC, C#, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap snd Foundation.  • Developed Stored Procedures for Website using SQL Server 2017. ETL Developer Lash Group - Fort Mill, SC May 2017 to July 2017 Helped Develop Data Feeds via SSIS and .EXE to transfer Data from PPlus System to Files, XML or Web Services.    Web Developer  Schaeffer Group - Contractor Fort Mill, SC  • Helped finish medium size application for Finance team that was built in MVC using SQL Server. Also, used Telerik UI controls for grids and dropdowns. Applied bootstrap to website for tablets and phones.  • Moved and tested existing databases from 2005 to 2012 Sql Server. I also moved .NET/MVC applications from older 2008 server to new server.  • Wrote console application to load SAP data into medium size application.  • Wrote another console application to change access levels in one of the MVC sites based on data from SAP. Web/Application Developer Billy Graham Evangelistic Assoc - Charlotte, NC September 2015 to August 2016 • Developed MVC internal website for Royalties to be paid for Movies. Created the SQL Server Tables and Stored Procedures for the application. Application would send invoices via web services to our DataHaven/Serenic program to be invoiced and paid.  • Worked on additions to existing ASP classic sites.  • Developed ASP.NET Webforms for printing of labels, PDF, and other documents. Integrated with Santori Label Studio.  • Developed ASP.NET Webforms for creation of files for mailings using Santoi Presort and ACE.  • Developed Open XML MVC Form to create letters for attorneys in Legal department.  • Built MVC website with searchable menu of reports and displayed them via SSRS in Iframe.  • Convert existing DTS to SSIS packages and Crystal Reports to SSRS. Senior Web/Application Developer AccessOne Medcard - Fort Mill, SC June 2014 to September 2015 • Developed web services for IVR system Genesys to take credit card and check payments. Also, setup SQL Database and Stored Procedures to capture information from payments. A Second web service was created to talk to Vantiv to process the payments through a third party.  • Designed API's/EXE programs to kickoff Settlement Reports using C Sharp and DevExpress Reporting/Excel API. Created the SQL Server Tables and Stored Procedures for the application.  • Developed MVC internal website for tools to kickoff/update Settlements. Created the SQL Server Tables and Stored Procedures for the application.  • Designed MVC external website for external training for our various credit card programs. Utilized DevExpress Reports for training statistics. Website was designed using Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON, and C Sharp. Created the SQL Server Tables and Stored Procedures for the application.  • Created the SQL Server Tables and Stored Procedures for the application. Senior Web Developer American Efird - Mount Holly, NC March 2014 to June 2014 • Developed internal .NET web site for Product Specifications (PPAP) using VB.Net.  • The site created PDF documents that were used by Quality team when testing the threads A&E produced.  • Designed web services for external site to pull data from Oracle to the external web site.  • Developed C Sharp Application to add new Specifications for the PPAP website.  • Reports were created in Crystal to give mangers information for staffing needs. Programmer/ Web Developer Cadmus/Cenveo - Charlotte, NC July 2009 to March 2014 • Responsible for support/administration/development of RIMS inventory control management system.  • Created complex waste reports with SQL Server Stored Procedures and Crystal Reports for the Jacksonville location I support.  • Created and supported SQL Server Stored Procedures/DTS Packages for large RIMS/Imaginera applications.  • Created and maintained Web Pages/Controls using VB.NET and C Sharp.  • Created program to automate the printing of barcode labels in VB6 with Bartender.  • Created DTS packages for Data Imports from other systems, files.  • Support/Develop Classic ASP for Legacy RIMS application for Lowes Improvement Stores.  • Created applications in VB.NET to create encrypted data for label generation for RJR Tobacco.  • Created unique codes with SQL Scripts for Seapak to use for prize promotions. Database and scripts were created to maintain these codes and generate new ones. Programmer/ Web Developer Cadmus/Cenveo - Charlotte, NC March 2012 to July 2012 • Developed Web Applications/re-useable User Controls with Telerik .NET AJAX Controls and VS 2010.  • Developed Web Services that integrated with SharePoint.  • Developed SSRSReports that were called from SharePoint, and opened within the application. I also would allow the client to save the reports back to SharePoint.  • Developed applications with DotNetNuke, JSON, and JQUERY for Queue application for the nurses in our department. Education Bachelors of Science in Business Administration/ Management Information Systems University of North Carolina - Charlotte, NC 1998 Associates of Arts in Business Administration Central Piedmont Community College - Charlotte, NC 1995 Skills Javascript Additional Information Skills  • MVC  • WebForms  • C Sharp  • VB.NET  • VB 6  • MS SQL Server  • Visual Studio  • Classic ASP  • HTML  • ASP.NET  • TFS    • JQuery  • JavaScript  • Entity Framework  • SSRS  • SSIS  • IIS  • Crystal Reports  • Infragistics  • DevExpress  • Telerik  • Visual Sourcesafe