Web Projects Manager, Senior Web Developer & Instructional Technologist <span class="hl">Web</span> Projects Manager, Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; Instructional Technologist Web Developer South Easton, MA Front End Web Developer with comprehensive experience envisioning, crafting and implementing database driven websites, configuring LAMP servers and deploying projects using industry leading advanced content management systems. Business savvy web specialist with robust technical expertise of cloud business applications, learning management systems, video distribution systems, faculty systems, library systems, pedagogy and classroom learning technology. Pioneering lead IT instructor with outstanding teaching and educational awareness. Successful and highly efficient manager with comprehensive knowledge directing computer technology departments, leading web developers, directing university project teams and managing diverse faculty, staff and students. Work Experience Web Projects Manager, Senior Web Developer & Instructional Technologist Bentley University - Waltham, MA January 2018 to April 2019 • Coordinated and implemented complex web projects in numerous business centric technologies for the Academic Technology Center.  • Performed expert tier 3 support for academic technology cloud based systems and actively created innovative solutions to achieve greater efficiency through the use of APIs and automation.  • Consulted with faculty to implement and extend the functionality of key systems which include peer evaluation, Blackboard SaaS LMS, enhanced video distribution, asynchronous online teaching, department database driven websites, RISE campus display signage, VPN usage, research applications and the library catalog system. Enhanced the student experience and promoted better student teacher engagement through the implementation of extended functionality, superior UI/UX interface design and vendor partnerships.  • Collaborated with software vendors to fix bugs, extend functionality and deliver a superior experience to faculty and students. Successfully investigated product functionality to influence purchasing decisions and optimize the Bentley learning experience. Worked with vendors to enhance product functionality.  • Technology Used: Linux (Ubuntu/Centos), Apache, NGINX, PHP, ASP, C#, MS Visual Studio, MS SQL Server Management Studio, WordPress, ExpressionEngine, Drupal, Modx Revolution, iPeer, CATME, Blackboard SaaS, Kaltura, Qualtrics, Workday, RISE Vision, Encore, VMWARE vSphere, AWS EC2/S3/CloudFront, Zoho Creator, JotForm, Office 365 Apps, Adobe Cloud, Digital Measures, Sierra/Encore, Stackscript, APIs, Panteon, WPEngine, Linode, DigitalOcean, Zoom, Skype, Webex, Sublime Text, WHM/cPanel, Putty, HTML, CSS, JS, jQuery. Lead IT Teacher and Department Head of Computer Technology Blue Hills Regional Vocational Technical School - Canton, MA November 2013 to June 2017 • Taught the state computer technology curriculum to 48 diverse students and successfully prepared them for university and IT environments. Coordinated and motivated students to win district and state competitions by boosting confidence and focusing on high probability competition content and scenarios. Realized extraordinary results with students winning record numbers of highly contested awards, scholarships and internships. Succeeded at encouraging students to set ambitious educational and career goals through peer inspiration and encouragement.  • Appointed webmaster for the institution and both conceived of and evolved an attractive online presence which led to more effective parental communication and community engagement. Increased student registration numbers dramatically resulting in stronger classrooms and enhanced results.  • Administered the regulatory, inventory and infrastructure needs of the computer technology department and taught with the latest instructional tools, technologies and methodologies. Championed students on how to create networks, utilize technology and build commercial websites. Encouraged students to volunteer and construct free websites for the local community and state representatives. Promoted the doctrine of pay it forward.  • Enabled students to create opportunities to build websites for third party clients and generate income.  • Networked with and reached out to technology peers and received classroom sponsorship from AWS, Linode, GitHub, Cloud Linux, cPanel and Digital Ocean.  • Technology Used: Linux (Ubuntu/Centos), Apache, NGINX, PHP, WordPress, Modx Revolution, X2, TestOut, LAN School, Spiceworks, Windows 7-10, Mac OS, Networking Cabling & tools, MS Windows Server 2003/2008 R2/2012, IIS, VMWARE vSphere, AWS EC2/S3/CloudFront, Google Suite, Sublime Text, WHM/cPanel, Putty, HTML, CSS, JS, jQuery, Wireless Projectors, Chromecast, YouTube, Custom Built PCs, Adobe Cloud, Blender, Macrium Reflect. Spotmau, Overclocking, Oracle VirtualBox, VMWARE Horizon, cPanel, WHM, Parallels, Webmin, Shared Hosting / DNS. Senior Web Developer University of Massachusetts - Boston, MA June 2012 to November 2013 • Constructed the university website with the ExpressionEngine advanced content management system. Extended functionality of the existing website to provide extra value to faculty, staff and students e.g. built an advanced database driven interactive campus map, an emergency response active shooter system (in collaboration with emergency response teams, university administration and the press) and an internal document control system. Devised and implemented news sections that could be easily administered by university PR teams.  • Trained colleagues, content editors and faculty to successfully use, develop and scale the university website.  • Implemented performance, security, analytical and SEO measures to enhance value to end users and optimize the effectiveness of the site at reaching target audiences.  • Technology Used: Linux (Ubuntu/Centos), Apache, NGINX, PHP, WordPress, Modx Revolution, ExpressionEngine, HTML, CSS, JS, jQuery, ActivCollab, Office 365, Google Mapping, EEHarbor plugins Education Bachelor's Degree in Commerce & Master's Degree in ECommerce in Commerce Central College - Cork Skills Back end, Content management, Html, Javascript, Php, Xml, Content management systems, Css, Lamp, nginx, Web based, Apache, Linux, jquery, Database, Mysql, Cms, Team lead, Lms, Wordpress, Front End, HTML5, Bootstrap Links https://bit.ly/2w6rWIR Additional Information Skills  • Project Management: Conceiving of business and technical solutions to tough commercial challenges. Implementing technology-based solutions to address existing and future business demands. Directing teams and vendors toward realizing project goals. Achieving successful outcomes with all objectives met. Championing the tenacity, skill and work ethic required to get projects done.  • Content Management Systems: Overhauling legacy web based systems with WordPress, Modx Revolution and ExpressionEngine LAMP based CMS and delivering superior business value and content organization.  • Front End & Server Technology: Utilizing cutting-edge front-end technology including HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, Linux, Apache, NGINX, CDNs and AWS to build comprehensive scalable business solutions.  • Back End: Capitalizing upon the technical strength and performance of Ubuntu, Centos, Apache, NGINX, PHP and MySQL to build cost effective yet reliable and secure business centric applications.  • Teaching and Instructional Technology Outstanding IT Instruction and learning knowledge with excellent ability to upskill and communicate with colleagues. Comprehensive hands on implementational knowledge of Blackboard LMS, Kaltura video distribution, Digital Measures faculty system, Zoom asynchronous learning, Zoho Creator database applications, Qualtrics survey systems, CATME peer evaluations, and Sierra/Encore library systems. Expert knowledge of system API's and application extendibility.  • Communication: Reliable, enthusiastic and highly capable team player with comprehensive problem-solving and public speaking skills. Skilled trainer with advanced knowledge of learning. Exemplary work ethic with extensive exposure to the operations of multiple business centric industries and the communication intricacies therein.  • Management: Motivated manager with exceptionally strong educational background and technical mentoring ability. Bachelor's degree in management, master's degree in electronic business & commerce, former department head of computer technology, business owner, team lead and team manager. Mentored diverse internal and external teams towards achieving business goals and meeting tight deadlines. Hands on manager with ability to take the reins and close out projects efficiently, on time, with goals realized and challenges surmounted.