ETL Developer, Web Developer II, Programmer Analyst ETL <span class="hl">Developer</span>, <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> II, Programmer Analyst ETL Developer, Web Developer II, Programmer Analyst - Navitus Health Solutions, LLC Appleton, WI Full stack developer with over 8 years of development experience in the full software development lifecycle. Customer-focused and detail-oriented team player with a "can do" attitude. Motivational leadership skills with the integrity to see a project through to completion. Exceptional observation and listening skills.  Skills and Tools    C# VB.net HTML CSS JavaScript jQuery Kentico CMS Oracle SQL Server Web API JSON Bootstrap Visual Studio 2017 Selenium Katalon Studios TFS Telerik IIS JIRA Confluence Work Experience ETL Developer, Web Developer II, Programmer Analyst Navitus Health Solutions, LLC January 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  • Collaborate with developers, system analysts, and Marketing to conceptualize and develop new software programs and applications using Agile methodologies.  • Conduct meetings with clients to gather requirements and ensure member portals meet the clients' needs.  • Customize UI features for clients to ensure a good user experience  • Add enhancements, such as responsive design and ensuring portals meet 508 compliance.  • Add to ERD as needed; write stored procedures and functions to accommodate new features and functionalities  • Extensive QA testing - automated, cross-browser and mobile devices  • Document, and launch new features and functionalities for the portals and internal applications.  • Research, debug and fix production issues with internal applications and external websites.  • Research and recommend software improvements and upgrades.  • Write reports and generate statistics for upper management.  • Mentor new developers Web Developer & Designer, Media Team Lead Living Stone Alliance Church August 2010 to Present Responsibilities  • Manage between 3 - 7 team members  • Meet quarterly to gauge team members strengths, weaknesses, and areas of interests  • Meet with the church board to gather requirements for new enhancements and updates to the church website and overall media needs, such as sound systems or the Wi-Fi.  • Design, code, and test new features and functionalities  • Mentor new team members and assign tasks  • Ongoing hardware support Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science UW Milwaukee & UW Oshkosh