UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Bed Bath & Beyond Edison, NJ ? Six years of professional experience in UI development in various fields such as Marketing, E-commerce, and Finance.  ? Knowledge of Search Engine Optimization (SEO) principals to develop search-friendly web application and interface.  ? Solid foundation of front-end library such as React and Redux.  ? Proficient in HTML5, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Ability to translate customer needs into functional and appealing interactive, intuitive landing pages.  ? Excellent in DOM manipulation with JavaScript.  ? Experience in test-driving development.  ? Proficient understanding of cross-browser compatibility issues.  ? Deep experience with coding responsive web applications.  ? Experience with Agile software development methods such as Scrum and Jira.  ? Working experience with Linux server command-line, using Git and npm in a collaborative environment.  ? Ability to write reusable component.  ? Some knowledge of backend programming language: Python, Java.  ? Familiar with relational database: MySQL.  ? Strong communication and documentation skills. Work Experience UI Developer Bed Bath & Beyond - Union, NJ 2018 to Present Description: Bed Bath & Beyond is a North American chain of domestic merchandise retail stores. I joined the front-end team and participated in implement styles and components of an internal application.  Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for implementing and maintain the product catalog with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, React and Redux.  ? Communicated and coordinated cross-functionally in order to collaborate with colleagues across the organization.  ? Wrote pure functions for stateless components by React.js to reduce side effects and simplify testing.  ? Improved web application performance by enhancing accessibility and SEO (Search Engine Optimization) with HTML metadata and headers.  ? Used React-Router to implement Single-Page-Application.  ? Wrote reusable component by implementing High-Order-Components.  ? Used Redux to manage global state used by multiple components in different levels of the Application.  ? Used Git as the version control tool.  ? Performed code reviews and collaborated with other engineers to produce and maintain high-quality front-end code. UI Developer Kroger - Blue Ash, OH 2016 to 2017 Description: Kroger is the United States' largest supermarket chain by revenue, the second-largest general retailer and the seventeenth largest company in the United States. I joined one of the front-end teams participated in developing an e-commerce platform.  Responsibilities:  ? Implemented and maintained the shopping cart interface.  ? Used Bootstrap to implement the basic layouts of the forms on the web pages.  ? Used CSS flex-box to position the buttons and other components on the web pages.  ? Created highly reusable CSS codes for different sections on the website.  ? Tested the styles and functionalities in multiple browsers to ensure the cross-browser compatibility.  ? Applied responsive web design using CSS Media Queries and Bootstrap Grid System.  ? Worked on converted jQuery-based application to React based application.  ? Updated and maintained website content.  ? Developed and tested user interface designs across multiple browsers and mobile devices.  ? Performed code reviews and collaborate with other engineers to produce and maintain high-quality frontend code. UI Developer PNC Financial Services Group - Pittsburgh, PA 2015 to 2016 Description: PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. is a bank holding company and financial services financial services corporation based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. My responsibility in the team was developing the customer interface.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked with cross functional teams Collaborate and innovate with Product, Design, Data Science and other engineering teams to design and develop front-end user interfaces for web applications using JavaScript.  ? Used jQuery events to manipulate the elements depends on user interactions.  ? Tested front-end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility.  ? Added Html semantic tags and Labeling to make web content more accessible for people with disabilities.  ? Created reusable and valid CSS templates to reduce loading.  ? Wrote external CSS files, which linked to the HTML files to optimize the layouts and increase the traffic of the website.  ? Used debugging tools such as Chrome Developer tools to locate the issues and fix the bugs. Web Developer FISCHER HOMES - Erlanger, KY 2014 to 2015 Description: Fisher Homes is a real estate company build homes. My responsibilities in the team was mainly to maintain and updated the web application.  Responsibilities:  ? Assisted with website and web application development using JavaScript, jQuery and CSS.  ? Updated and maintained website content.  ? Developed and tested user interface designs across multiple browsers and mobile devices.  ? Performed code reviews and collaborate with other engineers to produce and maintain high-quality frontend code. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY Skills Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Redux, Webpack, Ui, Web design, Html5, Linux, Dom, Semantic, Bilingual, Mac, Mac os Links http://linkedin.com/in/brsmith Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Web Technologies    Platforms  ? Libraries    JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, DOM, ECMAScript5/6, Bootstrap, Semantic UI, Responsive Web Design, Objected Oriented Programming  Mac OS, Windows and Linux  React.js, Redux    ? Management Tools  ? Communication    Git, NPM, Webpack  Technical Writing, Bilingual Communication