Lead Web Developer Lead <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front-End Developer Denver, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Web Developer RateGenius Loan Services, Inc December 2018 to Present • Maintain the rateGenius custom WordPress theme.  • Develop new theme features and templates.  • Modify and develop custom plugins.  • Integrate 3rd party marketing services like Autopilot HQ, Pushnami, Google Tag Manager, and Google Analytics  • Track development cycle using JIRA  • Meet with stake holders to discuss and analyze project requirements.  • Deploy new features and fixes to development, staging and production environments using git.  • Integrate internal and external API’s.   • Digest API responses and develop templates around response data. Web Developer / I.T Warm Audio LLC - Austin, TX May 2017 to October 2018 • Designed and Developed the new Warm Audio company website.  • Setup VPS for a fast and scalable web hosting solution.  • Setup web space and staging environment using WHM and CPanel.  • Setup and configured WordPress, theme/child-theme, and plugins.  • Configured Cloudflare CDN and migrated DNS records, added new records as needed, enable SSL, configure firewall, restrict back-end access, added page rules for performance, optimized media delivery.  • Added requested customizations using PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Setup all pages with supplied content and media.  • Perform maintenance when needed using wp-cli.  • Setup VPS with Microsoft Server R2 to handle company Quickbooks.  • Integrate Quickbooks with Salesforce platform.  • Launched company Salesforce org.  • Assist employees with computer issues.  • Setup office network to handle increased bandwidth usage.  • Handle any and all I.T. related duties. Web Developer City of Pharr Texas - Pharr, TX August 2015 to May 2017 • Develop all City of Pharr related websites.  • Rebuild the main City of Pharr website on top of the existing WordPress Environment.  • Install SSL certificates on city owned web servers.  • Meet with department heads and management to discuss department pages and layouts.  • Build the Pharr International Bridge website. Integrate and configure a live stream of traffic camera.  • Build single-page sites for city events using HMTL, SCSS, JavaScript, Gulp, and Bower.  • Design HTML email templates for internal use. Education A.A.S in Business Computer Systems South Texas College - McAllen, TX August 2012 to December 2014 Skills Javascript, PHP, Wordpress, CSS, React.js, Salesforce, SCSS / SASS, Jquery, Bootstrap, HTML5, LAMP Stack, Git, GatsbyJS, Photoshop, Adobe XD, Illustrator, HTML, Redux, ExpressJS, MongoDB, Front End, NodeJS, Front-End, React, CSS3, JIRA, Agile, Docker Links https://github.com/vollervi https://vollervidez.com/