Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Long Beach, CA I wish to see myself as a Software Development Engineer.  I am always ready to learn. I have experience in web development and have done academic projects using Java, Python and C. I'm very much keen on learning new things and always ready to try out anything new.  Apart from that, I love collecting and solving cubic and non-cubic puzzles, enjoy hiking and going for long bike rides. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Web Developer Associated Students Inc - Long Beach, CA June 2019 to Present Graduate Student Assistant College of Business Administration, CSU - Long Beach, CA March 2018 to Present ? Generated score reports and item analysis files for 10 different California State Universities for the Business  Assessment Test to assess their business school for accreditation.  ? Reviewed resumes of faculty in CSULB CBA and entered into the accreditation database. Tutor Advanced Computers - Kalyan, Maharashtra September 2017 to November 2017 Tutored five students on Digital Electronics and Internet of Things and conducted a practical session on Raspberry Pi Frontend Web Developer Pavoh.in - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2015 to October 2015 Completed Web Programming internship with Pavoh (A RiiDL incubation startup). Created the coming soon page using  Javascript and the initial release website. Technologies used: JavaScripts, HTML, CSS. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Engineering California State University - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2018 to December 2019 Skills HTML (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (Less than 1 year), PYTHON, CSS (4 years), SQL, Git Links https://github.com/Inolas http://www.linkedin.com/in/saloni-buddhadeo-b94a67115 Additional Information Technical Skills  ? Java, Git - Intermediate level  ? Android App Development - Mini projects  ? Python - Basic understanding, mini projects  ? Web development - HTML, CSS, JavaScript  ? SQL - Basic understanding, mini projects  ? Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word