Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Chicago, IL • Thinking "out of the box" to provide software-based solutions  • Developer skilled in Python, Angular, C#, .NET, Web Development and SQL with database analysis and design.  • On requirements gathering, business systems planning, procedural development & expertise implementation, validation, problem solving, business contingency planning, change management and UAT Testing.  • Excellent knowledge of industry standard methodologies like Waterfall & Agile Models/Scrum and Iterative Software Development Life Cycle Process.  • Working knowledge in developing scope/vision documentation, project plan, tracking project process, and managing resources to ensure successful delivery.  • Expertise in the management of user request change, and handling user conflicts.  • Proficient in creating use cases, use case diagrams and activity diagrams etc.  • Knowledge in developing test plans and test cases; ensuring adequate testing on software both before and after completion; conducting and documenting UAT.  • Proficient in Microsoft office and working understanding in database concepts.  • Excellent Analytical, business communication and presentation skills. Extensive working and presentation experience with business users, software developers, senior management as well as business leaders & business users.  • Capable of adapting to new and fast changing technologies quickly to deliver a quality product on time.  • Professional with experience in the development, implementation and integration of strategies within a team oriented environment, utilizing quantitative and qualitative analytical skills.  • Possesses excellent written, communication and interpersonal skills. Worked in big and small teams with very little supervision. Very hardworking and highly collaborative Team player.  • Proficient in creating Sequence Diagrams, Collaboration diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Class Diagrams using Rational tools and Microsoft Visio. Work Experience Software Developer Expedia Inc - Chicago, IL April 2019 to July 2019 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in daily scrum meetings and bi-weekly sprint planning to deliver high quality software regularly  • Worked on Redux with React to handle large chunks of data for the better performance.  • Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Implemented AJAX to request JSON data through third party REST APIs to acquire data from the server and display it in sorted order.  • Worked on implementing innovative features using JavaScript, jQuery, HTML across different sites to determine ways to make loyalty customers happy and retain them.  • Implemented map State to Props, map Dispatch to Props for the interactions between Redux andReact.  • Developed web pages with functionalities like login, register, forget password, Email, filters using JavaScript, jQuery and HTML.  • Used React JS to create custom components for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format.  • Used Redux-Thunk for asynchronous data fetching and accessing the browser cache.  • Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection(Core) and Spring Annotations.  • Involved in building and consuming various REST API to get customer related information using Spring Boot  • Worked on XML/ JSON technologies like Jackson and JAXB libraries for binding data to java objects  • Designed and Developed data model consists schema, tables and created corresponding mapping entities in Hibernate using annotations, mapping associations.  • Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database operations and avoid redundant database access statements  • Externalized the application properties and client configurations by implementing Spring Cloud Vault.  • Used POSTMAN to test Web API service, applied Jasmine and karma to do unit testing.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Involved in deploying applications in AWS environment using Jenkins, Dockers, Vault and Git.  • Retrieve log from the Splunk to check the errors generated when a case is searched in worker portal.  • Tested pages for cross-browser compatibility for Safari, Chrome, Firefox and IE by cross browser hacks and requirements.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, IntelliJ, Jenkins, Tomcat, Java8, JDBC, JPA, FTL, Web services(REST), Maven, Apache tomcat, GIT, Jenkins, Web services(REST) Web Developer Intern Assembly Line Technologies May 2018 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved throughout the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Scrum-Waterfall.  • Conferred with Business Users to elicit requirements and worked with design & development team on solution design.  • Worked with JavaScript frameworks to create rich interactive content.  • Collaborated within an Agile team structure where they will assist with developing code using such technologies as: JavaScript and Word-Press, and MySQL Database.  • Assisted team with testing code in multiple browsers. (Chrome, Microsoft Edge, Internet Explorer)  • Interacted with users to verify User Requirements, manage Change Control, and update existing documentation.  • Created use cases, process flow diagrams, and designed solutions using the Functional Specification Document (FSD).  • Documented the requirements to meet end-state requirements and compiled Software Requirement Specification Document, Business Specification Document, and Use Case document.  • Defined requirements for client side validation & server side validation. Identified and documented all business rules for Middle Tier, communicated the rules to technical team to provide scope and requirement clarification on a low-level.  • Worked on GUI development: created screen-mockups to review the requirements and provide feedback on the screen design, created ad-hoc screen mock-up to review with the users.  • Kept the application extremely simple by encapsulating all the complexity of the system in coarse grained services.  • Experience in documenting the Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM).  • Communicated with the stakeholders throughout the lifecycle of the project, constantly updating them on benefits and risks associated with the project.  • Demonstrated strong analytical and project management skills, including a thorough understanding of how to interpret business needs and to verify that the new system being place has the functionalities justifying the business needs.  • Assisted in scripting rules for Data Validation. Validated all web methods by ensuring the requirements have been met.  • Assisted in developing the Test Plan, Test Cases and Test Scenarios, based on business requirements and technical specifications. Collaborated with the QA team to ensure adequate testing of software by conducting UAT.  • Demonstrated understanding and experience with SQL queries.    Environment: SQL Server, MySQL, UML, Agile, Agile (SCRUM), MS office 2013, MS project 2013, MS excel 2013, MS PowerPoint 2013 and MS Visio 2013, SharePoint, WordPress, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, PHP. Student Assistant Wayne State University July 2013 to July 2015 Computer Science Department)    Responsibilities:  • Used XML to create Web-based tools for transactions on SQL and Oracle databases.  • Troubleshot and resolved bugs in .NET applications to ensure optimal development environment.  • Developed WinForms user interface projects with initial layout and base controls.  • Developed enhancements to enterprise financial planning Web-based .NET application for leading insurance provider.  • Designed and reviewed Java application architecture; analyzed software development process and suggested alternative technologies.  • Liaised with production team to analyze bugs and resolve issues.  • Worked with SQL Server databases and designed stored procedures.  • Designed Web-based ASP.NET Internet applications linked to firm-wide SQL databases.    Environment: SQL Server, .NET, C#, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Visual Studio, XML, Agile Education BACHELOR'S DEGREE in Computer Science WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY December 2018 Skills Visio, Data modeling, Requirement gathering, Uml, Use case, Use cases, Data analysis, Sharepoint, Jad, Uat, Ms sharepoint, Ms office, Gap analysis, Excel, Ms excel, Outlook, Ms powerpoint, Powerpoint, Ms word, Word Additional Information AREAS OF STRENGTH:    • • Business/IT Analysis • Requirement Gathering • Process Reengineering/Development • Project Management • Gap Analysis, Benefit Analysis • Feasibility Analysis • User Acceptance Testing (UAT) • Data Analysis/Data Modeling • Report Modeling & Simulation • Business Artifacts Documentation skills Project Scope • Business Use Cases • Business Functional Requirement Document • Requirement Traceability Matrix • UML- Use Case, Activity, Class, Sequence, State Diagrams    Business Skills:  Business Process Analysis & Design, Gap Analysis, Impact Analysis, JAD/JRP Sessions Requirement Gathering, and Use Case Modeling.    MS Office tools: Outlook, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Visio, MS SharePoint, MS PowerPoint.