DBINFO DBINFO DBINFO Quincy, MA • Around 4 years 9 months of strong experience as a Front-End Developer in developing User Interface (UI) web applications by using JavaScript, DOM, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JSON, AngularJs, Angular 4, Angular6, Angular 7.  • Academic Knowledge on NodeJs, Express, MongoDB, Heroku.  • Reviewing business requirements and functional designs for application, creating and following Wire Frames.  • Expertise in DOM manipulation using JavaScript, and Angular.  • Expertise in Manipulating the DOM using directives in Angular 6.  • Deep Knowledge in consuming HTTP services and Handling HTTP errors properly.  • Built re-usable components in Angular 6.  • Proficient in Formatting data using pipes and Custom Pipes in Angular 6.  • Expertise in Building template-driven and reactive forms in Angular 6.  • Hands on Experience in Adding routing and navigation in Angular 6.  • Added Forms Validators Attributes in Angular 6.  • Strong experience in CSS3 preprocessors styling such as SCSS.  • Extensively used CSS3 and Bootstrap for styling the HTML5 elements.  • Expertise in developing Responsive Web Design, Grid Framework Applications using Twitter Bootstrap.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap.  • Hands on experience developing Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap and CSS media queries.  • Used ngbootstrap for Bootstrap components.  • Experience working with different data formats like Object, JSON and different JSON Media types.  • Understanding of all the phases of software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Have excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills. Ability to adapt to changing professional work environment to implement software solutions in an efficient manner.  • Participated in SCRUM calls to discuss the status of the items being worked on.  • Participated in SPRINT planning and discussed user stories.  • Involved in grooming sessions on how to implement solutions/fix bugs.  • Confident, articulate, and professional speaking abilities. Work Experience DBINFO DBINFO May 2019 to July 2019 SUMMER 2019)  • As part of course curriculum created DBINFO project using Angular7, NodeJs, MongoDB, Express, Bootstrap.  • Implemented features like Authentication by JWT Token and AUTH GUARD.  • Deployed using Firebase and Heroku available at https://db-project-mean.firebaseapp.com/login  • Integrated third party libraries PDFJS, ng-toaster for improved functionality.  • Application mainly intended for accessing metadata of database.  • It is responsive web application can be accessed on different types of devices.  • Used angular forms and new angular cli features to generate application using Angular7.  • Used HTTPCLIENT for rest calls to send and receive data from server. UCM BLOG January 2019 to May 2019 SPRING 2019)  • As part of course curriculum created UCM BLOG project using Angular6, Firebase, Bootstrap.  • Implemented features like Lazy Loading, AUTH GUARD etc and Authentication using Google.  • Deployed using Firebase and available at https://ucm-blog.firebaseapp.com/blog  • Integrated third party libraries ngx-spinner, ng-toaster for improved functionality.  • Application mainly intended for sharing information over network.  • It is responsive web application can be accessed on different types of devices.  • Created reusable components using Angular6. WEATHER INFO WEATHER INFO August 2018 to December 2018 FALL 2018)  • As part of course curriculum created WEATHER APP project using Angular6, Firebase, Bootstrap.  • Implemented features like Lazy Loading, Dynamic component loader and ngx-spinner.  • Deployed using Firebase and available at https://weather-application-info.firebaseapp.com/  • Created dynamic advertisements using Angular Dynamic Component Loader using directive concept.  • Application mainly intended for showing weather information when we click on advertisements.  • Used rest api calls by using HTTPCLIENT to get current location data.  • Integrated with Firebase to track the number of signups.  • Protected routes using AUTHGAURD implementing authorization.  • Used ngx-spinner for loading feature implementation.  • Weather information is build by using Angular-cli and deployed using Firebase which is available at https://weather-info-tracking.firebaseapp.com/signup Software Engineer DATAGAPS - IN November 2017 to July 2018 Angular 4 / Angular 6)    Responsibilities:  • Converted Angular4 project into Angular6 project.  • Responsible for creating complex UI screens using modern CSS libraries like Bootstrap 4.0.  • Followed Angular Best practices throughout the application.  • Utilized core Angular 4 features such as HTTP, Data Binding, Forms, Services and Dependency Injection.  • Developed UI screens using excel sheets and a picture.  • Added authentication by maintaining using JWT.  • Protected routes navigation by using AUTH Guard.  • Integrated AGgrid for rich grid functionalities.  • Integrated drag and drop functionality for large set of data in Angular6 by using PrimeNG.  • Implemented SQL editor functionality by using ACE editor.  • Responsible for writing Angular 4 code that calls server-side APIs over JSON.  • Build reusable shared components across the application.  • Build reusable Reactive forms in Angular 4.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, TypeScript and Angular 4 to design a user-friendly and multi functionality interface.  • Responsible for writing CSS and interested in using newer technologies such as SCSS.  • Developed the Single Page Application using Angular Directive, Routing, Service, Component, Pipe and Module.  • Responsible for handling large data and binding huge data which returns from backend.  • Used Angular 4 custom Directives for reusable DOM manipulation and Services to implement Dependency Injection.  • Used Angular 4 build-in template expression to perform two-way data binding.  • Involved in Styling Flex Containers.  • Designed User interface sketches by using Pencil.  • Designed prototype for the application by using Axure.  • Experience in developing Single Page Application (SPA) with Angular 4 and Web API.  • Skilled working with data formats such as JSON.  • Have Experience with browser differences and limitations and client- side performance.  • Coordinated my work across teams to build a seamless feature.  • Looked at a UI mockup and implement it using JavaScript, HTML, Angular and CSS.  • Communicated thoughts on my own and others' designs and implementations in a friendly and encouraging way.  • Worked independently or as part of a team.  • Experience working in an Agile environment. Associate Software Engineer (Angular2) NAPIER HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS - IN March 2016 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Created web pages using Angular and Bootstrap.  • Redesigned each screen in angular2 product based on AngularJS product.  • Implemented encryption and decryption to hide the data through network by using cryptosJS.  • Created web pages for the product called HIS3.0  • Developed web pages for the project JASLOK HOSPITAL.  • Worked in various healthcare modules like Billing, SCM, IP, OP, ADT.  • Written front end calculations for billing module.  • Used Angular framework to bind HTML5 (views) to JavaScript objects (models).  • Written ajax calls to get data from server.  • Followed Agile/Scrum methodology for the software development  • Used bootstrap, HTML5 for the visual design  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issues tracking.  • Build reusable shared components across the application.  • Build reusable Reactive forms in Angular 2.  • Converted AngularJs project to Angular2.  • Performed screen integrations based on the data received from server.  • Implemented authentication and authorization using JWT token.  • Created reusable components which have extensive use in the product called JASLOK.  • Enhanced the existing product for better navigation and user experience,  • Extensively used browser cache mechanism by using cookies and session Storage.  • Involved in day to day meetings to update the status and discussing various possible ways to improve the product.  • Focusing on user experience and performance.  • Improved the performance by using cache mechanism.  • Implemented scheduling concept with help of quartz scheduler.  • Created reusable patient banner which contains information about Patient demographic details along with unique identification number.  • Used high charts for the representation of patient dashboard, billing dashboard. Web Developer Intern DATAGAPS - IN December 2014 to February 2016 AngularJS)  Responsibilities:    • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design and prototyping.  • Involved in developing user interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJs.  • Involved in day to day discussions with product design team for effective improvement of the application.  • Created reusable directives using AngularJS.  • Involved In creating controllers, views for data interactions and bindings using ng-model, ng-binding etc.  • Created services for rest calls using $http.  • Used powerful concepts in AngularJs like Dependecy Injection in application development.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML & CSS, Bootstrap  • Used Bootstrap for effective design of Web pages.  • Worked closely with Photoshop designers to implement mock-ups and the layouts of the application  • Extensively used GIT for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS and HTML.  • Wrote code to implement AJAX based applications be fetching the response from backend API as a part of JSON  • Worked extensively on design and development of UI, HTML and CSS  • Worked friendly with back-end developers to find ways to push the limits of existing web technology in service of creating the best possible user experience  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation  • Implemented code for AJAX based application by fetching the response from backend API as a part of JSON  • Interacted with Customers and development teams for Fix the Issues.  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Responsible for experimenting with new frameworks and libraries to make decision either should be used in the product/project or not.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for fixing of Issues  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Central Missouri August 2018 to December 2019 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Engineering JNTU Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2011 to May 2015 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/girijapathi-reddy-bakkireddy-uideveloper https://github.com/girijapathi1994