Direct Care Worker-Team Leader Direct Care Worker-Team Leader Awesome Employee Albuquerque, NM My name is Roger Crewse, I think I am an awesome employee because-  I like to interact with people.  Show up early to work and stay late if needed.  complete my assigned task with a positive attitude.  strongly believe in a drama free work space.  Easy to train, and I am not afraid to hit the ground running.  I have a big heart, and I love to help those who are in need.   Keep myself very groomed and I will follow any dressed code.  I like to coach sports for I9.  great Leadership skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Direct Care Worker-Team Leader The New Beginnings - Albuquerque, NM June 2018 to Present TNB is a health care program that works with people who are on the DD waiver, and the elderly population. TNB has there population in residential homes where you would work with the clients programs. TNB work with various types of high functioning individuals, crisis population, low functioning individuals.     I am currently a Team Lead working in a home that has high functioning individuals.     My Duty include:    providing transportation to and from scheduled destinations.  Handing out Medications.  Providing Support for approved state VTA programs.  Crisis intervention.  Cooking.  Cleaning the house when needed.   Providing Supported Living services.  Team Management and scheduling.  Events coordinating.  Responsible for making sure that the team Documentation is correct and meet state Documentation requirements.  Gathering weekly Vitals.  Attending meetings with the clients support team.  Shift Coverage     I am currently meet NM state certification in providing supported living services as a Direct Care Worker. WEB DEVELOPER freelance.com August 2015 to Present biding on contracts on freelance.com, I have completed 25 projects ranging from; data base management, to updating current websites, and content management. Senior Web Developer MaineHealth - Portland, ME January 2015 to July 2015 Maine Health had an outdated Website, then wanted to updated the CMS to a more modern CMS.  Maine Health outsourced the project to a company called Pro Search. Pro Search contacted me and offered me the 6 month contract. My team consisted of 3 web developers and we competed the job on time and under budget.     This project consisted 980 html pages of content.    Provided Technical Support for Outdated CMS.    Created Technical standards for the Capture of Content from the old CMS, organize the content and strip the html tags, in-lined CSS and Inline JavaScript.    Re Html tag by hand the plain text content pages back into the new CMS Build.    Worked in team environment with marketing Department in coordinating data reintegration strategies, Directory Tree Architect layout.    Help Create administrative policy in providing guidance for maintenance of the new website moving forward in the New CMS Build. Education High school or equivalent in General Study Sedona Red High School - Arizona Some college in IT CNM - Albuquerque, NM Skills CASH HANDLING (3 years), CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (Less than 1 year), CUSTOMER SERVICE (5 years), Javascript, PHP, Wordpress, Front End, Angular, Angular, Front End, Javascript, PHP, Wordpress, Jquery, Angularjs, HTML5, Microsoft Office, Management, training, problem solving, Inventory, retail sales, Organizational Skills, Marketing Certifications/Licenses CPR Additional Information ROGER CREWSE  PHONE: 928-592-7608  EMAIL: COOLSTONE987@GMAIL.COM