Software engineer ( Web & Mobile Developer) Software engineer (<span class="hl">Web</span> &amp; Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span>) Software engineer ( Web & Mobile Developer) - iCodice LLC Chicago, IL Dynamic Full web developer focused on back-end programming and front-end user interface design, with 3.5 years of experience building robust user experiences designed for ease of use and functionality. Strong knowledge of the software development lifecycle, contributing on a number of international client projects. Adept at translating user requirements into technical specifications and front-end wireframes. Additionally, excel at database design, architecture, and programming. Work Experience Software engineer ( Web & Mobile Developer) iCodice LLC - Chicago, IL April 2018 to Present • Urban-Counter: CMS for building a Mining store in the greater Chicago land area.  ? Managed Email services, SQL database and URI routes.  ? Created the RESTFUL APIs using Lumen PHP 7 and consumed them with Blade templates.  ? Architected and developed Urban-Counter, applied MVC to assist developers with a competitive pattern.  • Bark Membership: Private dog park membership checking mobile app works with management portal.  ? Developed new User-Interface using widgets, like Menus, Layouts, Buttons, and Edit Boxes.  ? Implemented the Rx Android API library to cut down on development time.  ? Published and updated the application on the Google play store.  • Orgil Auto Transport: A Landing page for auto transportation company. Implemented front-end in Bootstrap.  ? Created auto transport templates using HTML5, CSS3, PHP 7, Bootstrap, and jQuery. Full Stack Web Developer Able Soft LLC January 2015 to June 2017 • Able ERP system: Built PHP-based ERP human resource management, time attendance, and meeting program modules in support of system and software development for multiple projects including children and family apps.  ? Programmed highly customized modules, allowing key functions in human resource, time, and attendance reporting.  ? Migrated a JavaScript-based public module to ReactJS.  ? Designed and programmed user interface design.  • Family and Environment system: Built PHP based web applications for the Authority for family, child and youth development. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA August 2017 to Present Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Mongolian University of Science and Technology September 2012 to December 2015 Skills ANDROID STUDIO, C#, DESIGN PATTERNS, Git, JAVASCRIPT, REACTJS, PHP, LARAVEL, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on Rails, ANDROID, HTML5, MVC, SASS, MYSQL, SQL, MONGODB, JAVA, AJAX, CSS, HTML 5, Jquery, ASP Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/tsoodol