ServiceNow Developer/Admin ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin ServiceNow Developer/Admin - CFN New Mexico, MD • 7+ plus of experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC , quality management systems and project life cycle processes.  • 4 years of experience in ServiceNow platform as both Developer and Administrator  • Configured Applications using Service-Now tool used in ITIL Management. Strong understanding of ITIL V3. Deep functional and technical knowledge of the Service Now platform as well as experience delivering medium to large-scale Service Now implementations.  • Experience in Installation and Configuration of different modules of Service-Now.  • In-depth knowledge of the technical implementation of Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Catalog, Configuration Management, Reporting, Discovery and Integrations.  • Worked on End-to-End implementation of CMDB module using manual data load using Import Sets and Transform Maps, along with accurate data population from Discovery and other third-party tools such as SCCM, and AWS Cloud  • ServiceNow applications implemented: Incident, Problem, Change, Configuration, Asset Management, Software Asset Management, Contract Management and Procurement.  • Hands - on experience in implementation of various IT processes on ServiceNow such as PPM and other ServiceNow modules.  • Deftness in carrying out implementation, troubleshooting, development and configuration of BMC Remedy and ServiceNow Applications.  • Strong technical knowledge of AR System Platform and ITSM Products (Incident Management, Change Management, Problem Management, Asset Management, SLM, SRM, CMDB, AIE)  • Functional knowledge, implementation and configuring of ServiceNow CMDB, Discovery as per the client's requirement.  • Functional knowledge and implementation experience of IT Service Management (ITSM) frameworks and demonstrated project management skills and experience working directly with customers and clients.  • Strong technical knowledge on Java scripting, Web APIs which includes SOAP and REST.    Visual Source Safe, Rational Clear Case, SharePoint  • Experience in Application Architecture, Analysis, Technical Design, Development, Implementation, Performance Tuning, Testing, Configuration Management and Release/Build management in all stages of Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of software applications using J2EE technologies.    • Gathered requirement for SLA and configured in ServiceNow Development and design of Self-Service Portal.  • Familiarity with ServiceNow Orchestration, Performance Analytics, and HR Service Management modules.    • Worked with different bug tracking tools like JIRA, Remedy, Clear Quest and Bugzilla.  • Provided technical documentation for the specific projects guided by the Manufacturing and Engineering departments.  • Authored technical documentation and best practices for the help desk knowledge base.  • Full understanding of SDLC, RUP, Agile, SCRUM Methodologies and process.  • Experience in Implementation, understanding, performance and configuring Event management and Orchestration as per the requirements.  • ITIL V3 Certification.  • ServiceNow Admin Certification.  • Manual Tests. Involved in Requirement Management, Peer reviews, Inter group coordination and Training Programs Good analytical, problem solving  ROLE  ServiceNow Developer  ServiceNow Admin Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow Developer/Admin CFN - Boston, MA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • As a part of support activity resolve incidents by provided with proper root cause investigation.  • Perform day to day administration of the Service-Now tool Maintain business services and configuration item relationships in Service-Now tool.  • Develop and manage application code, user interface, and third-party integration components  • Develop necessary development documentation as needed e.g. technical design, developer notes, etc.  • Performs core configuration tasks including system policies, business rules and client scripts.  • Manages users, groups and roles  • Manages data with Tables, the CMDB, Import Sets, and Update Sets.  • Creates Workflow activities and approvals. Implement new workflows that use a variety of activities to understand how records are generated from workflows  • Performs migration activities Dev to QA, QA to Prod  • Coordinates Service Catalog options, including two-step checkout, cart controls, and variables  • Investigate performance issues, learn troubleshooting tools, and use system logs to find issues  • Coordinates installation of ServiceNow upgrades and/or service packs. Develops and manages the preparation of systems, test criteria and control for upgrades, service packs, new functionality, enhancements or error correction.  • Develops and improves user systems procedures, and prepares systems documentation.  • Establishes and maintains effective communications with customers, other technology specialists, and vendors about services.  • Use Administration of common platform applications: Knowledge Base, Service Catalog, Workflows, SLA's, Reporting etc.  • Core Application Administration: Policies Interactions, Application Security, Events Notifications.  • Managing client scripts, UI policies, UI actions and Data policies.  • Moving data in and out of an instance using import sets and transform maps and also auto import of data into service now.  • Defining Service Level Agreements SLAs , notifications, and reports.  • Develops new applications from beginning to end.  • Maintains existing applications. Creates code that meets system standards.  • Integration of service now with LDAP for authentication.  • Integration of Service Now with BMC Remedy for ticket creation on change submit.  • Subject Matter expert on Incident Management, Change Management Process and Knowledge article.  • Recommends appropriate design alternatives to be implemented based on customer constraints.  • Developsconversion plans and procedures.  • Develops and executes plans and procedures for data conversion, customer acceptance criteria and installation strategy.  • Migration of customizations from one instance to other instance.  • Ongoing Maintenance.  Environment: ServiceNow, ITIL, Javascript, JellyBeans, Web Services, XML, DHTML, JQuery, JSON ServiceNow Developer/ Administrator City Of Memphis - Memphis, TN January 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on auditing and archiving of the applications and forms.  • Worked on change management, problem management and asset management.  • Customizing ITSM application and creating and validating tickets in different ITIL processes.  • Responsible for creation and maintaining of groups and permissions for users.  • Involved in Service-Now Discovery Planning, implementation and Administration.  • Incident management and problem management activities.  • Reviewing SLA performance and recommend corrective action.  • To follow up on escalations and issues with clients and management.  • Worked on Service Catalog and implemented new functionality using Business Rules, UI Policies, and Access Lists etc.  • Designing of Content Management System which involved layout, CSS and Service Catalog work.  • Utilized the Service Now Service Catalog for users to create Service Requests and Service Items.  • Worked on integrating ServiceNow with external SOAP and REST based web services.  • Planning & executing Windows/Unix, Network Discovery through SNOW Discovery  • Day to Day Discovery & troubleshooting Tasks  • Managing CMDB like manual upload data(Import data) from Excel sheet  • Export reports from CMDB as per requirement  • Working on Tickets assigned related to Discovery & CMDB.  • Implement Service-Now customization including, but not limited to, Client Scripts, UI policies, UI Actions, Script Includes, Business Rules, workflow administration, report setup, and data imports and exports  • Change management:  • Develop, document and publish Change Management process and functions  • Analyze change records to determine any trends or potential problems.  • Reviewing change requests for completeness and accuracy.  • Working with service providers to schedule changes.  • Assisting in the preparation, facilitation, documentation, and communication related to weekly and ad hoc Change Management meetings.  • Problem management:  • Perform root cause analysis.  • Investigation and follow-up for permanent fix of the problem.  • Follow-up on tickets being raised regularly for re-occurring incidents.  • Service Now Platform Administration:  • Deliver ServiceNow configuration and enhancement requests  • Implement and manage Incident, Problem, Knowledge, 4 Custom Applications, Self Service Portal / Service Catalog, Change, Configuration (CMDB), Asset Management, LDAP/Active Directory integration, scheduled imports and reports  • Delivered reporting and data from ServiceNow to business and IT users.  • Environment: ServiceNow (Geneva),ServiceNow (Fuji), JavaScript, HTML, SOAP/XML, SQL Server, Mid Server, Agile, Windows 7.  • Utilized Java Scripting to deliver solutions that automate and audit business processes using UI Policy, Client Script, Service Mapping, UI Action and Business Rules.  • Responsible for maintaining and growing data held within ServiceNow such as our users, locations, configuration items, service catalog items.  • Re-designed workflows using workflow editor, reconciled complicated workflows to simpler form JavaScript, XML, HTML5, JQuery, and DISCOVERY.  • Application UI Configuration.  • Development of requirement integration components (SSO, LDAP, SOAP).  • Converted the ServiceCatalog into a fully functional website using Content Management module.  • Design and Configuration of workflows  • Configuration of Email Notification to alert users on ServiceNow activities. ServiceNow Developer/Admin Client- Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA February 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Experienced in the analysis, development and automation of various ITSM processes including Incident Management, Change Management, Asset Management, Service Request, Configuration Management including setup and configuration of MID Server and Configuration Item Discovery.  • Software configuration/ customization including UI customization, workflow administration, data imports, custom scripting, implementing new functionality, homepage customization.  • User Interface - Configure and maintain Forms, Lists, Views, UI Policy, UI Scripts, UI Actions, View Rules, Welcome Page Content, Map Pages and other UI elements for ServiceNow modules.  • Created new Business Rules/Script Includes/Client catalog script/Client Script.  • System Properties - My Company, UI, CSS, System, Email, Approval, LDAP, Application, Security, Users, and Groups.  • ServiceNow application development; including creation and configuration of Service Catalogs, Email Notifications, Data imports and exports and Reports.  • Manage system configurations, gather and document user and process requirements, develop workflow customizations, and support quality assurance teams.  • Perform core configuration tasks.  • Exporting and importing data in XML files.  • Establish and interact with the configuration management database (CMDB), and manage data with import sets, update sets and transform maps.  • Document business requirements/ process and build solutions.  • Modified Operational/Production/Resolution Categorization structure per Customer desired work flow  • Environment: ServiceNow, Java Script, JSON, JQuery, Web Services, SOAP, SQL, XML, Angular JS, Windows 7. Customized and created workflows for change management, knowledge management and for service catalog items  • Monitored and performed ServiceNow admin activities, which involves group, user administration.  • Worked on automated workflow, created training documents, trained personnel, updated processes and procedures  • Successfully managed and developed large-scale implementations of ServiceNow across multiple processes and applications for clients in multiple verticals.  • Orchestrated the efforts of vendors, and internal divisions/departments to internalize new IT Asset Management processes  • Managing ServiceNow (Change Management) to automate and standardize business processes for all Go-Lives. Consolidating all global IT to a single system of record.  • Involved in change and release to production touch points, incident and problem management processes  • Involved in operation, requirements identification and documentation, preliminary and detailed system definition, system design reviews  • Integrated SCCM in ServiceNow  • Involved in MID Servers for granted access to the SNMP devices by the ACL  • Implementing ServiceNow Discovery and CMDB and integrating it with Change management  • Budget management for all ITSM, Service desk and QA departments. ServiceNow Developer Client-United Health Care - Milwaukee, WI January 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Assisting client implementing the MSP (managed service provider) instance for Service-Now and domain separation for Service-Now instances.  • Working with client and functional requirements within service now.  • Facilitating rollout of new applications and modules.  • Worked with windows team, network team and asset team in order to check for the data collected through discovery are accurate.  • Design and implement new functionality using business rules, UI policies, and access lists etc.  • Service catalog and request workflow design and configuration.  • Created various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management, Service Requests and SLA's.  • The service we also provide to clients is a semi managed service for administering their service desks that has been implemented. This includes various administration tasks within service desk software.  • Created buttons and context menus both on form and lists using UI actions.  • Designed many email templates by using html and jelly scripting and used them in notifications  • Created new business rules/script includes/client catalog script/client script.  • Configured chat functionality for service desk ticketing queue.  • Created transform maps for importing CMDB data.  • Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts  • Imported many CI's using import set tables  • Imported active directory to service now using data sources.  • Created data sources and loaded the Service-Now tables with different data formats  • Created transform maps both automatic field mapping and scripting.  • Also worked on asset management and loaded the data into it.  • Integrated fire eye tool with service-now using email integration i.e. Inbound actions scripting.  • Worked on the integration of service now with Siebel, integrated service catalog and incident module.  • Used JMS integration to fulfill this requirement, worked on scheduled jobs and mid server script includes to fulfill the requirements.  • Environment: ServiceNow, XML, HTML, Windows 7, CSS, AJAX. Java/J2EE Developer SEI Corp - Oaks, PA June 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked directly with user groups in analyzing and specifying business requirements for the design and development of project.  • Suggested and advised clients to tactfully alter workflow of application to increase the efficiency and ease of use.  • Designed and Developed user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Extensively used JavaScript for client side validations.  • Experience with input validation using JavaScript.  • Worked on design of interfaces using web services of external applications.  • Developed application based on SDLC Software Development Life Cycle  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, JSP.  • Developed UI, which enhanced user efficiency in using the functionality defined after business analysis.  • Designed intuitive responsive web pages using the concept of negative margins and percentages.  • Experience with UI designing for open source CMSs like word press, magneto, joomla etc.  • Designed cross browser compatible web pages.  • Redesigned several web pages with better interface and features.  Environment: HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, media queries, jQuery. WEB Designer/ Developer Client- CSC Corp - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Planning of Website design, scoping goals, design and functionality.  • Site map creation and navigation categorizing content.  • Work with graphic artist and copywriters in content creation.  • Setting up server and hosting plans for clients.  • Ensure backups and security are in place for websites.  • Setup metadata and image optimization.  • Html, CSS and JavaScript for prototyping.  • WordPress design and development.  • Website migration and cloning.  • Client training and website maintenance.  • Customer service and client meetings.  • Communicate with clients about design choices, technical issues, scheduling, etc.  • Update existing website.  • Make older website mobile-responsive and compliant with current best practices.  • Troubleshoot and fix display and functionality issues.  • Add new features, such as forms, menus, news feeds, event listings, ad sections, and user-editable content blocks  • Update content, styles, accessibility, and usability. Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, Ms project, Reporting tools, Visio, Jakarta Additional Information Software Tools  HP Service Manager, Visual Studio.Net, SQL Enterprise Manager, SQL Management Studio, Rational Rose, MS VISIO, MS project, Word, Excel, JIRA, PowerPoint    Project Management Software  MS Project  Jira    Methodologies  Waterfall  Agile/Scrum    ITSM  ServiceNow  (London, Kingston, Jakarta, Istanbul, Helsinki, Geneva, Fuji)    Operating Systems  • Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012/2012 R2, XP, All Windows 8, 10  REPORTING TOOLS  SQL Server, MS Access, SSIS, SSRS, Excel, Pivot    Data Base skills  SQL Server 2008, MS Access.    Requirement Tools  Rational Requisite Pro, DOORS    Modeling Tools  UML, MS Visio, Rational Rose  Version Control Tools