Store Manager Store Manager Store Manager - The UPS Store Parrish, FL I am currently the manager at a local UPS Store franchise, however I would like to take my career in a new direction. I am eager to learn and take on new challenges in an environment where I have room to grow. Which is why I have recently earned my Community Association Manager license. I have varied experiences from multiple fields that include technology based skills such as web development and computer programming as well as administrative skills that include warehouse management and scheduling. Work Experience Store Manager The UPS Store May 2018 to Present • Oversaw day to day operations of store and managed six employees.  • Developed system to ensure employee duty accountability.  • Worked one on one with customers unhappy with associate interactions.  • Acted as main interface between carrier services and customers in order to resolve shipping issues.  • Helped facilitate management take over of a new store. Web Developer / Webmaster Doctors To You, LLC May 2017 to December 2017 • Developed and managed company websites.  • Worked on projects to improve Search Engine Optimization.  • Worked as full stack developer on web application to connect doctors to patients.  • Monitored user behavior to improve functionality.  • Worked and communicated with team to accomplish company wide goals. Utility position/Tubing Coordinator Graco High Pressure Equipment Company, inc May 2012 to May 2017 • Used CNC and manual equipment to perform rough and finished machining.  • Managed and maintained shop inventory.  • Packaged and shipped large orders. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Edinboro University - Edinboro, PA August 2015 to July 2022 Bachelor of Science University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA August 2010 to December 2012 Skills Css, Html, Javascript, Sql, Scheduling, Inventory, Excel, Microsoft word, Word, Human resources, Retail Management, Team Building, Customer Service (2 years), self management (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Community Associate Manager License August 2019 to September 2021 State of Florida Notary Public July 2018 to July 2022 State of Florida Additional Information Skills  • Manage employees through scheduling daily tasks and delegating work effectively  • Ability to communicate effectively in both a sales and human resources capacity  • Web Development (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL)  • Proficient with Microsoft Word, Excel, and Access  • Ability to organize, manage and account for large amounts of inventory  • Willing to take direction, but also able to be decisive when necessary.