Junior Programmer/ Developer Junior Programmer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Junior Programmer/ Developer - N.C. Department of Agriculture Concord, NC • 4 years of combined professional, college, and personal experience developing Java Android Applications  • 3 years of professional experience as a Test Engineer, .NET and Java Developer  • 2 years of industrial experience developing and testing .NET Web and Desktop Applications  • 1 year of experience in developing web applications that use Java EE Technologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior Programmer/ Developer N.C. Department of Agriculture - Raleigh, NC April 2017 to Present 27601  • Responsible for developing and enhancing the Regulatory System, Recertification, and License Search web applications primarily for the Pest and Pesticides division but also for all divisions.  • Documented bug fixes, enhancements and state of progress made using the Boss Central Ticketing System  • Applications are written in Visual Studio 2015 using C#, ASP.NET, HTML, Javascript, CSS, Bootstrap, SQL Server and ADO.NET.  • Has also troubleshooted Microsoft Access Databases used by the Pest and Pesticides division. Net Developer Lowes Foods - Raleigh, NC November 2014 to March 2017 27615  Responsible for stocking the shelves and maintaining the floors. Web Developer Grover Gaming - Greenville, NC September 2014 to October 2014 27834  Responsible for creating and maintaining software which interacts with external hardware devices, web services and other business logic to compliment the library of games.    Web-Based Reporting Site Project  This site allows the customer to get Ticket earnings daily, weekly, etc. The site allows the customer to create and retrieve invoices, game information and store information.  • Written in ASP.NET MVC with Web API 2 Rest Services. The front end is written with HTML 5, jQuery, 3rd party JavaScript libraries, Bootstrap, and Razor C# server-side code. Database management and data access is implemented by SQL Server and Entity Framework.  • My responsibility was to take the current existing Reporting site and build it from the ground up using new .NET technologies. In addition, I was to build a rest web service that consumes Tickets-related data. NET Developer E3 Retail - Raleigh, NC August 2013 to August 2014 27615  Developed workflows for the point-of-sale systems to drive the activities on the user-interface screen. Retailers using the latest technologies and standards can improve the effectiveness for Retail Sales Associates to perform their duties for customers.    Touchpoint Project  E3 Retail's TouchPoint solution is a web-enabled, browser-based POS application that can be deployed on Point of Service, tablets, mobile devices, kiosks and with a thin or thick client having one business process, workflow and data layer deployed and fully integrated across the enterprise.  • Touchpoint's front-end architecture is built on Microsoft's Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), ASP.NET 4 and HTML5, and the back-end is built on Windows Workflow (WF) and Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Analyzed requirements, flows, and use-case documents to develop activities for workflows that drive the Graphical User Interface and call the business objects related to defined business action.  • Coded and tested defects published by the OnTime, the agile management system, and made enhancements to the project's existing workflow as instructed by the lead architect. Java Developer HCL America - Cary, NC October 2012 to July 2013 27518  Responsible for developing, maintaining and supporting Web and Java applications, gathering and analyzing requirements, and troubleshooting application defects.    My Health First Android Application Project  This application enables the user to have instant access and keep track of health information such as Service Requests, Insurance Policies, Claims, Providers, and Drug Prices.  • System was designed using Android XML, Android SDK, Java SDK, 3rd Party APIs, and Internal Service APIs  • Coded the activities associated with the user interface and made the necessary network calls return JSON and populate the user interface.  • Implementing Google Maps API and Google Places API for showing addresses of providers.    Timesheet Project  This application was designed for the user to fill out work hours for the week and allow managers to maintain and manage users work hours for the current weeks and months specified.  • J2EE project developed using Spring MVC, Hibernate 4, JSP, Javascript, AJAX, and Jquery Software designed using use-case and class diagrams  • Designed, developed, and maintained the MySQL database using MySQL tools  • Responsible for developing the data model using MySQL tools and examined the feasibility of testing the application by experimenting with automated testing technologies. Software Test Engineer E3 Retail - Raleigh, NC August 2011 to October 2012 27615  Tested E3 Retail's pricing engine that retailers use for complex pricing using the latest technologies and industry standards, which enables retailers to solve new and expanding business problems.    Pricing Engine Project  The E3Retail Pricing Engine is a set of core and utility services for small to large retailers designed to interact with enterprise and point of service system to deliver accurate item and transaction level pricing to reporting systems, vendors, and retail customers.  • Core technologies used are .NET 4.0, Microsoft WCF/SOAP services, REST services, SQL Server 2005, and Entity Framework 4.1.  • Coded and implemented C# Unit Tests using Visual Studio Unit Testing Framework to construct test cases concerning the retail scenarios specific to a given retail transaction.  • Reported and fixed bugs in production quality code for software releases.  • Coded and implemented enhancements for change requests. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science East Carolina University - Greenville, NC 2011 Education Wake Technical Community College - Raleigh, NC Skills .NET (3 years), C# (2 years), MS SQL SERVER (2 years), SQL (2 years), SQL SERVER (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages: C#, Java, Kotlin    .NET Technologies: Windows Presentation Foundation, Windows Workflow Foundation, Windows Communication Foundation, ASP.NET MVC 4/5, Web API 2    Java Technologies: Java EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP    Scripting/Markup Languages: JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, HTML 5, JSON, XML    Database technologies: Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008, MySQL 5.5, SQLite    Mobile Tools and Platforms: Eclipse Android Development Tools, Android SDK, Android Studio    Worked with: NodeJS, Yeoman, Express, AngularJS, Grunt, Heroku, MongoDB