3D Industrial Designer & Web Developer 3D Industrial Designer &amp; <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> 3D Industrial Designer & Web Developer Hayward, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience 3D Industrial Designer & Web Developer Ericsson June 2014 to August 2018 Implemented the design of a new gaming/cable box/PC system. Designed gaming controller.  3D printed many of the internal and external parts for the system.  • Implemented UI designs for the Media group. Created animations as needed. Worked with Design team and Development team to define the UI requirements    Skills: Fusion 360, Simplify3D, Meshmixer, HTML 5, CSS3, Javascript Senior Web Developer GE Healthcare December 2013 to February 2014 Created proof of concept applications for viewing very large medical images using Deep Zoom  technology.    Skills: HTML 5, CSS3, SCSS, JavaScript, JQuery, OpenSeadragon, SOAP, JSON Senior Web Developer Level Studios April 2012 to June 2013 • Creation and updating of various web pages for company website.  • Developed interactive web application ads for iOS devices using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and specialized framework for creating ads. Also developed interactive application templates with  specialized GUI interface.  • Worked with Cupertino-based company's managers and designers on multiple projects to deliver  best in class web applications.  • Mentored new team members.    Skills: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, specialized ad framework, TextMate, Safari (Safari Inspector), specialized ad testing software, Photoshop, Versions (SVN client), various smartphones and tablets for device testing. Senior Web Developer Apple September 2010 to November 2011 Developed and implemented the necessary files for bringing the global Wellness site outside the Apple firewall and accessible to the thousands of Apple Retail employees. Set up Akamai  connectivity to hold all graphics, PDFs, and media files used on the site.  • Managed the development of the global Employee Referral Program (ERP) site.  • Developer on these Web projects:  o Wellness (global site)  o HRWeb (global site)  o Employee Referral Program (global site)  o Open Enrollment  o Community Affairs  o Commute Car Share  o Apple Jobs College Advisor  o HR Team site  o HR Tech Docs  • Mac Mail Stationery Development:  o HR Mail project (contains stationery and special installer package).  o VP and Director Bonus Plan  o Division HR (contained 5 stationeries)  o Special HR Mail for VP of Human Resources and Dean of Apple University  o HR Marketing Mail  o Open Enrollment 2011. Five HTML email pages used by a FileMaker bulk mail tool.  o Open Enrollment 2012. Twelve HTML email pages used by a FileMaker bulk mail tool.  o Service Awards. One Mail Stationery and 3 HTML/CSS pages for use with a FileMaker bulk  mail tool.  o Stock Option Grant. Two HTML/CSS pages for use with a FileMaker bulk mail tool.  o Welcome Back Returning Apple Employee email message.    Skills: HTML5, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, XSLT, XML, Xcode, PackageMaker, FileMaker    Additional History Available Upon Request Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science California State University Skills Mac, Mac os, 3D Modeling (3 years), 3D Printing (3 years), HTML 5 (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Javascript (1 year), JQuery (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/joeroberts Additional Information Operating Systems: Mac OS, Linux, Solaris, Windows