Web Applications/Software Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Applications/Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Applications/Software Developer Arlington, VA Results-orientedprofessional with a history of excelling increative problem-solving, critical thinking, attention to details, analytical mindset, andeffectivecommunication skills. Seeking to apply myexperience in Software Development, Object-Oriented technologies, Client/Server applications, andWeb applications.  • Experienced in design and development of software systems involving various technologies, including front-end and back-end development (Full-Stack)  • Developed Data Visualizations with various data types and data structures.  • Worked on Web Services over HTTP using SOAP and REST (RESTful Web Services)  • Wrote queries using SQL in MS SQL Server and Oracle databases.  • Familiar with all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment, and Maintenance.  • Experienced in Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud MicroServices and developing Spring-based applications with fewer configurations.  • Involved in Analysis of the information system's needs, evaluation of end-user requirements, custom design solutions, troubleshooting and debugging.  • CreatedFunctional, Structural, Behavioral Modeling, and Project Planning documents.  • Able to clearly understand issues and find positive solutions though troubleshooting, debugging, problem-solving, teaming, and communication skills.  • Self-motivated, critical thinker with the ability to effectively set priorities to achieve immediate and long-term goals and meet proper deadlines.  • Excellent soft skills such as interpersonal communication, analytical skills, and teamwork.  • Strong problem solving and technical skills coupled with confident decision-making.  • Ability to work in a self-managed as well as a team environment.    Programming Languages Java, Python, JavaScript, SQL, XML, UML, CSS3/CSS, HTML5/HTML, ECMAScript (ES) 5, ES6, ES7.  Java Tools  Core Java, Spring, Spring Boot, Java Server Pages (JSP), Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB), Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Maven, Hibernate, Java WebServices, JUnit, Log4j, Eclipse, MyEclipse.    Web Technologies  HTML, XML, JSP, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, Angular, Node.js, npm, Data-Driven Documents (D3.js), ag-Grid, Bootstrap, RESTful WebServices, Amazon Web Services Simple Storage Service (AWS S3)    Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere.  Databases (RDBMS) Oracle, SQL Server, Access, MySQL. Work Experience Web Applications/Software Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA October 2017 to June 2019 Project Description:  As a Software Developer in Systems Integration (SI) Strategy & Analysis division, I have worked with Business Forecasting team and Data Analysts on creating web user interface (UI) for forecasting model, which allowed business team to integrate and analyze big data from various sources, visualize it in interactive graph charts, and manipulate aggregated data for more precise forecasting and analysis.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in meetings to gather and analyze stakeholders' business requirements, transformed them into technical requirements.  ? Followed Agile/SCRUM/Kanban Software Development Methodology throughout development lifecycle with Leankit tools for better productivity.  ? Engineered design and development of UI hosted with Tomcat webserver.  ? Worked with backend team to create RESTful API with AJAX that invokes AWS Lambda functions to get/save files from/to AWS S3 bucket, converts gzip and/or CSV files to JSON objects.  ? Utilized ag-Grid framework and APIs with JavaScript to create MS Excel-like tables with more versatile functionality based on JSON response data.  ? Manipulated semi-structured data to create nested JSON objects, parse/format different data types, map, aggregate, rollup, and transform nested-structured data with JavaScript implementation of ECMAScript 5 (ES5), ES6, ES7.  ? Implemented Data-Driven Documents (D3.js) framework to create and render data visualizations/interactive graph charts of large datasets.  ? Refactored code for reuse and scaling to create responsive SVG containers and draw multiple graphs with multiple lines with different data formats and multiple scales with D3.js.  ? Created UI input/mouse event listeners, filters, menus, search boxes, 1-click options for changing data visualizations based on user filters.  ? Integrated validation and error handling with JS functional programming, jQuery, D3.js, CSS.  ? Monitored, periodically generated and updated authorization tokens for APIs with Postman IDE.  ? Created responsive UI/UX design with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and JS.  ? Facilitated meetings on UI updates and new/updated requirements.  ? Analyzed and revised code based on stakeholders' inputs.  ? Utilized GitHub for collaboration with team, documenting and revising the code, and version control.    Environment:  ECMAScript 5 (ES5), ES6, ES7, Java, Python, JavaScript, Angular, Node, npm, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JSON, AJAX, RESTful API, Data-Driven Documents (D3.js), ag-Grid, Bootstrap, Zlib, jQuery, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse IDE, Postman IDE, Amazon Web Services Simple Storage Service (AWS S3), GitHub, Agile/SCRUM/Kanban, Leankit, Windows OS. Java/J2EE Software Developer Huntington Bank - Columbus, OH April 2015 to September 2017 Project Description:  Thisproject involved enhancement of the web interface with a set of online tools for better account management. New features were added to personal and business online banking which allowed customers to control their banking activity from remote computers.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in business meetings for requirements gathering and understanding system's needs.  ? Involved in designing technical specifications with UML Diagrams: Activity, Sequence, and Class Diagrams using Rational Rose UML design tool.  ? Followed Agile/SCRUM Software Development Methodology throughout the software development lifecycle.  ? Front-end system web designing of complex pages, where data is pulled from different service interactions.  ? Developed user interface using JSP with JavaBeans, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries, JS, CSS, jQuery, Node.js, Angular 2/4, and HTML to speed up the application.  ? Experience in HTML, HTML5, CSS3, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and Typescript using Angular CLI.  ? Reused code of JSON Utility for flushing the response to Web Pages as JSON Objects from previous projects.  ? Developing a dynamic, responsive Web Application by integrating Angular with Bootstrap which is further integrated with Web Services.  ? Used AJAX data table for the web presentation layer.  ? Developed a strategy for integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring Security and Spring Boot.  ? Implemented security features and access roles in Web Pages and Filtering of requests.  ? Developed applications with MVC software architecture using Struts separating presentation from business logic.  ? Developed Struts Action Classes, Action Forms, and implemented Struts Validation Framework.  ? Applied Spring IOC Container to facilitate Dependency Injection.  ? Used Spring AOP to implement security, where cross-cutting concerns were identified.  ? Used Spring for handling Data Access Exception and Transaction Exceptions.  ? Responsible for Web Services consuming and packaging.  ? Involved in developing the core base Classes and designed the packaging needed for the project.  ? Implemented ORM mapping for one-to-one and many-to-one relations with the tables in the database DB2.  ? Used Docker containers for eliminating a source of friction between development and operations.  ? Involved in the design and decision making for Hibernate OR Mapping.  ? Involved in developing JUnit test classes using EasyMock for Unit Testing.    Environment:  Java/J2EE, EJB, JavaScript, TypeScript, HTML, Bootstrap, JSON, Rational Rose, Web Sphere, GitHub, Angular (2/4), Spring, Struts, MVC, IOC, AOP, Docker, Node.js, Hibernate, Web services, AJAX, Eclipse, Spring Boot, SQL, IBM DB2, SVN, JUnit, Agile/SCRUM. Java/J2EE Software Developer UnitedHealth Group - Irving, TX May 2014 to March 2015 Project Description:  As a Java developer, I have worked on EDI transaction 837 and 270/271 (HIPAA Eligibility Transaction) . The scope of the project includes the implementation of several interfaces and processes, enhancement and support of the existing claims system and electronic data interfaces to accommodate 5010 EDI changes.    Responsibilities:  ? As a part of the development team using Agile/SCRUM methodologies, developed use cases from user stories and took part in daily scrum sprints.  ? Development of the project requirements using Structural, Functional, and Behavioral Modeling using UML diagramming techniques.  ? Developed online functionalities with Spring Front Controller MVC architecture framework.  ? Developed business APIs using Singleton and DAO design patterns.  ? Involved in writing Java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  ? Developed presentation layer with JSP using Spring tag libraries, Spring Web Flow, and AJAX.  ? Mapped Spring View handler controllers.  ? jQuery for Client-Side form validation.  ? Handled Logging and authentication with Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) advices.  ? Developed Maven pom.xml for building application EAR.  ? Collaborated in Spring RESTful credit reporting system development with JSON over HTTP.  ? Involved in design, development, and implementation of stored procedures, SQL DDL and DML statements.  ? Created tables in the Oracle database using SQL.  ? Utilized Git as application repository and for deploying to AWS using code commit.  ? Worked on AWS High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure.  ? Utilized the Hibernate ORM framework to implement object-relational mapping (ORM)  ? Configured Hibernate mappings in Hibernate-cfg.xml file.  ? Handled Transaction Management in Hibernate with Oracle.  ? Performed Unit-testing using JUnit.  ? Participated in a code review of fellow developers.  ? Used TFS for Version Control.    Environment:  Java JDK, JEE, Amazon Web Services (AWS) Lambda, UML, Spring, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlet, WebSphere, Eclipse, Oracle, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, SQL, Maven, RESTful web services, Agile/SCRUM, JUnit, XML, TFS, Windows OS. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Strayer University 2017 Associate of Science in Computer Informatics Contemporary Humanistic Institute 2010 Skills ECLIPSE (5 years), HTTP (Less than 1 year), LINUX (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT PROJECT (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT WINDOWS (Less than 1 year), Front End, Javascript, Angular Additional Information Operating Systems Windows 95/98/XP/Vista/7/8/10, Windows ServerNT/2000/2003/2008, Linux.  Other Tools and Skills  Eclipse IDE, MyEclipse, Postman IDE, Atom, MS Office, MS Project, MS Visio, Leankit, GitHub, Waterfall, Agile/SCRUM, SOAP, TCP/IP, HTTP.