Job Seeker Arlington, VA Creative and reliable professional with demonstrated success in web analysis, communications, and IT consulting; including requirements gathering, manual and automated testing, content management, and documentation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Booz Allen Hamilton - Tysons Corner, VA January 2016 to August 2017 • Performed data analysis on app on usage results to better understand end user needs.  • Generated reports based on usage metrics.  • Worked with project manager to create user stories and task break downs.  • Created process flows and other process supporting documentation.  • Created training manuals, presentations, and other product materials.  • Provided UAT support for pending system releases.  • Manually tested products to ensure readiness for launch/deployment.  • Responsible for troubleshooting problems, and communicating resolutions to other team members and stakeholders. Frontend developer General Dynamics - Alexandria, VA September 2014 to January 2016 • Worked on redesign effort for internal reporting web sites for the US Patent Trade Office.  • Integrated COTS products with existing reporting systems.  • Gathered end user requirements, and wrote detailed test plans, and test cases.  • Ran automated tests using Selenium.  • Ensured that there was a consistent user experience by testing applications in multiple browsers and release environments.  • Provided UAT support for pending system releases. Web Analyst Optimo - Tysons Corner, VA December 2013 to September 2014 • Worked with human factors engineer to design and develop UI designs, and to deliver enhancements for the USPS.com websites.  • Responsible for analysis, design, and quality assurance for existing products.  • Updated training and maintenance guides for various products as required.  • Assisted project manager by creating project status reports, and by facilitating agile/scrum meetings and unit-test sessions. System Analyst Leidos/SAIC - Springfield, VA April 2013 to December 2013 • Analyzed and gathered performance metrics of existing applications and documented results.  • Researched how to push large XML data files from an existing database into a new Cloud based storage system using web services.  • Created test scripts and unit test plans.  • Generated mock data files to inject into application and to test performance of new system.  • Documented results based on metrics that were gathered from test runs.  • Drafted white paper for delivery to client once all testing results were finalized. Consultant Deloitte - McLean, VA May 2010 to April 2013 • Researched and drafted business process documents. Solicited requirements from end users and other project stakeholders.  • Conducted systems analysis, and drafted design documents.  • Created fit-gap reports, detailed product guides, and white papers.  • Updated content including images and text blurbs on client websites.  • Worked with offshore team members to design Adobe PDF converter plugin for reporting system.  • Configured and manually tested SaaS based product (Salesforce) to meet client requirements.  • Conducted 508 compliance tests. Software Systems Engineer General Dynamics - Herndon, VA May 2009 to May 2010 • Worked on large scale project to modernize client's legacy case management system using SOA.  • Participated in requirements dissemination sessions with analysts.  • Developed business logic from requirements.  • Created workflows and wireframes for development.  • Wrote oracle database queries using SQL.  • Modified existing WSDL files, XML schemas and web services.  • Worked with IBM BPM tools to generate business process code. Education MA in Communications Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH 2019 BS in Architecture University of Virginia - Charlottesville, VA 1994 Links http://getsteve.at.gmail.com