Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer 72712, AR • 5+ years of experience in IT including Analysis, Designing, Development, Testing, Bug fixing and Implementation in the Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) of Client/Server and Web Technologies for various N-Tier applications.  • Well versed in N-Tier Architecture and Web applications using Windows forms, Web forms and Windows services, SOAP, IIS and XLST.  • Extensive experience in developing N-tier applications using C#, .NET Remoting, .NET Serviced Components, .NET Web Services, COM+ and Visual Basic 6.0/5.0.  • Thorough knowledge of Waterfall and Agile Methodologies in Application Development with hands on experience working on Agile Development Team following SCRUM Methodology and paired programming using Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Experience in working with Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) and Windows Workflow Foundation (WF) in .Net Framework 3.5.  • Designed and developed UI and various workflows on Point of Sale Data systems using ASP. NET/MVC5 Web API, HTML, CSS, AngularJS.  • Expertise in developing applications using Microsoft technologies such as .NET Framework, Web applications using ASP.NET, ASP .NET MVC, Win Forms using Microsoft Visual C#.NET and VB.NET, Database access using ADO.NET and Entity Framework as ORM Mapping tool for Data Access layer and distributed applications using WCF, WPF, XML Web Services and Messaging system.  • Creating/consuming Web Services including WCF with XML, WSDL, UDDI and SOAP.  • An exclusive experience working with User Controls with VB.NET code-behind files, debugging and Quality Testing of the code.  • Expertise in creating functions of PowerBuilder.  • Extensive experience in Responsive web-based page and site designs using HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap and AJAX.  • Build REST Api for Address verification and CRUD of Address Book in Node.js.  • Worked to develop fully responsive front-end features using Angular JS directives, controllers, factories, and services.  • Worked on Angular 2/4/5 components, UI services to consume rest services using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Experience in working with Angular 2/4/5 Components, Directives, Pipes, Services and Modules using Type Script as Programming Language.  • Worked with Angular 2/4/5 routing, Lazy loading and React(JSX) Forms to develop the client-side application.  • Designed components using JSX and reducers and actions using React.js and Redux using the latest version of JavaScript (ECMA 6).  • Migrated existing applications from older web technologies to single page application architecture (SPA) using modern client side tools like React.js, Angular 4/5, Typescript and Webpack.  • Worked with Node JS as a Backend Server Technology for Making web services calls and  • Proficiency in deploying Web building technologies like jQuery, Java script, ECMA script(ES6), Type Script, Gulp JS, JSON and Node JS.  • Experience in creating dynamic web pages to get faster response time and to obtain partial updates using ASP.NET, Master pages and AJAX framework.  • Expertise in developing windows communication foundation services to expose useful functionality to Web users and Developed Web API's for backend data communication.  • Used Express Framework to set up middleware to respond to the HTTP requests with the help of Node JS.  • Extensive knowledge of .Net security features such as Authentication and Authorization involved in Windows-based and Forms-based Authorizing users.  • Expertise in Working with databases SQL Server, Oracle, IBM DB2 by writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Views, UDF and Oracle Synonyms and using T-SQL, Maintaining Database, experience in Query optimization.  • Experience in Oracle supplied packages, Dynamic SQL, Records and PL/SQL Tables.  • Expertise in Client-Server application development using Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, PL/SQL, SQL PLUS, TOAD and SQLLOADER.  • Good knowledge in writing Constraints, Indexes, views, cursors, Triggers and User Defined Functions using PL/SQL.  • Experience on working with No SQL databases like Microsoft Azure Database, Cassandra DB and Mongo DB.  • Experienced in working with Unit Testing, User Acceptance Testing to check whether all the Business Objective requirements are archived.  • Experience in writing test cases with N-Unit and Karma for Unit test and Performed End to End test using Protractor.  • Excellent knowledge of Object Oriented Design Patterns and Model View Controller (MVC).  • Strong verbal, written and interpersonal communication skills.  • Worked on the Release and Problem management from requirements gathering through testing.  • Involved in production support and fixing production issues.  • Strong team player, ability to work independently and in a team as well, ability to adapt to a rapidly changing environment, commitment towards learning. Possess excellent communication, project management, documentation, and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Full Stack Developer J.B. Hunt. Transport Services, Bentonville, Arkansas - Nashville, TN June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle of 3-Tier architecture including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance using Agile methodology.  • Designed Customized components using C# Language and the project was built on N-Tier Architecture with extensive use of Object Oriented Programming Techniques Like Encapsulation, Inheritance, polymorphism and Abstract Classes, etc.  • Used N-tier architecture for presentation, business and data layers  • Used .Net framework 4.0, N-Tier architecture and Object-Oriented Methodologies for application development.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#.NET.  • Used Mean Stack (Node, Express and Angular JS) to develop applications.  • Developed Mean Stack from scratch including DB server setup and Express JS server development.  • Incorporated different WPF controls and Dev Express controls. Worked on validation and converters in WPF.  • Designed and developed data access layer, which would connect to various databases for various groups.  • Object oriented technology was extensively used for developing re-usable components using C#. NET and VB.NET.  • Designing WPF Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls using XAML language for interactive UI.  • Developed the application using WPF to create an interactive native client GUI and designed the application based on MVVM design pattern.  • Worked with ASP.NET Web Forms, Web Services, and State Management, caching features, configuring optimizations and securing the web application. Developed the Code-behind files in C#.NET and VB.NET.  • Gained an exclusive experience working with Sitefinity, adding User Controls designed using VB.NET into the Sitefinity, creating Custom Modules, Pages, Master templates etc.  • Extensively involved in developing components for Business layer and Data Layer, implementation in MVC architecture.  • Modified WCF Web Services to interact with the other applications and exposed them using SOAP and HTTP.  • Implemented WCF Rest service by passing large file as method argument through JSON.  • Developed system services SOA application platform for use by all web applications utilizing WCF services and the ASP.Net provider model.  • Used Angular 5 to connect the web application to back-end APIs, used RESTFUL methods to interact with several API's, and wrote custom directives for a responsive, CSS-animated user interface.  • Developed Custom Pipes, Directives, Services and Modules in Angular 5 Applications.  • Updated dashboard front end to support multiple dashboards and their CRUD operations using typescript.  • Created event driven Web Forms using ASP.NET and implemented form validation using Validation controls using both Custom validation and JavaScript was written for Client-side validations and used the new validation controls in Visual Studio.  • Effectively used ASP.NET security infrastructure for authenticating and authorizing user access as well as performing other security related tasks using C#.NET.  • Involved in Creating, Deploying, Packaging and Pushing PowerBuilder apps via Content Management Team and Citrix Team.  • Created/Modified Data Windows, Windows, User Objects, Menus in PowerBuilder.  • Design, development and debugging of Code using PowerBuilder 12.0.  • Developed custom AngularJS directives to build custom reusable modules to use across the application.  • Extensively used ASP.NET Data Grid, Data List and Repeater controls for displaying the data in a clear format.  • Utilized Entity Framework technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ. Statements, views, User Defined Functions, Stored Procedures for inserting/updating/Deleting the data into the relational tables.  • Experienced in creating data entry for both web and windows application to query XML documents using LINQ.  • Developed RESTful services using Web API to perform curd operations in Services.  • Worked with Mongo DB and SQL server as database for Project.  • Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS) for all the source code maintenance needs.  • Development of enterprise reports by pulling data from various sources and presenting in SQL reporting services (SSRS).  • Developed Complex database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages for moving the data from staging area to data mart.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning and Application tuning using various tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TRACE, TKPROF and AUTOTRACE.  • Extensively used the advanced features of PL/SQL like Records, Tables, Object types and Dynamic SQL.  • Used JavaScript to perform validations and catch the events on client's browser.  • Experienced in managing both low and high-severity incidents across the life-cycle in accordance with availability, resolution and restoration.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing and debugging also involved in solving issues during development stage.    Environment: Visual studio, .NET, SOAP & Restful Services, SON, Framework, Angular 5, MS.NET Framework 4.5, Type Script, Node JS, Redux, ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#.NET, ADO.NET, IIS, WCF, WPF, AJAX, MVC, WCF, XML, XSL/XSLT, HTML, SQL Server, TFS, SSRS, UNIT TESTING. Full Stack Developer J.B. Hunt. Transport Services, Bentonville, Arkansas - Nashville, TN February 2018 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • As a developer, Responsible for Designing, Coding, developing and implementing web application using C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net 3.5/4.0/4.5/4.6.1.  • Worked on Agile SCRUM methodology.  • Developed interactive pages of the application using ASP.NET Web Forms pages with VB .NET for the code behind modules.  • Used Validation Controls for corresponding validations required for business logic in the Forms.  • Developed XML Web Services using C#, ASP.NET, SOAP, XML, XSLT and WSDL.  • Responsible for developing Layout, Nested Layout Pages, Partial Views Using CSS style sheets for having common layout and look and feel to all the controls.  • Responsible in developing Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, Scripts for database transactions on SQL Server2008/2012.  • Actively involved in coding and designing using C#, XML, ADO.NET, JavaScript, HTML5, and Cascading style sheets (CSS3).  • Created reusable Partial Views and used them in the user interface along with a third party Graphical Menu controls.  • Experience in Web UI Technologies using HTML, J-Query, JavaScript, Angular JS and Node JS.  • Extensively used ADO.NET for database connectivity and transactions. Used Dataset, Data Tables, Data Adapter, Data Reader and other ADO.NET connectivity controls extensively.  • Implemented user level security, extracted technical specifications from the database server using ADO.net and SQL Server stored procedures.  • Developed an Azure based high performance compute environment and client side validations were designed using Data Annotations and java script.  • Angular-JS was used for creating the controllers, Factories, Services, Custom Directives.  • Published Web services using C#.NET to interact with the other applications and exposed them using SOAP and HTTP.  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using React JS framework and JavaScript in conjunction with Angular JS 1.6, HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front-end UI team  • Graphical User Interface (GUI) was designed using ASP.NET MVC and the business logic was coded in C# [MVC Controllers].  • Used React JS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA)  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5, Angular JS 1.6 and React JS.  • Involved in designing of WPF screens and implementing MVC design pattern.  • Responsible for developing Application using ASP.NET MVC 5.0 and C#.  • Involved in design, development and maintenance.  • Used UML for designing the application.  • Created WCF Services responsible for communicating and providing real time data from integrated server to Client Application.  • Complete knowledge to work on with Portfolio while developing stages of web application, windows application and mobile Applications.  • Used knockout JS to create the observables and Data Binding.  • Involved in developing distributed, transactional, portable and secure application using WCF hosted on IIS and access those application using different technologies like java, remoting services.  • Responsible is using JQuery for Client Side Validations, Calling the Controller Actions, and Making calls to the WCF Services.  • Development experience in C#, XAML for Silverlight applications and web applications for Microsoft SQL Server.  • Having good partial knowledge in ASP.NET MVC framework to develop user interfaces.  • Having knowledge on AWS Cloud and Power shell.  • Used LINQ for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation interface screens developed using ASP.Net.  • Angular 5 were used to make the web applications dynamic and is used for making DOM manipulation.  • Created Web APIs using ASP.NET Web API allow new web/client projects to leverage reusable data  • Proficient in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Used SSIS and T-SQL Stored Procedure to transfer data from source databases to staging area and finally into data warehouse.  • Partially worked with behavior driven development and domain driven development.  • Coordinate with the QA Team for Unit Testing and Integration Testing of different modules.    Environment: .Net Framework 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, Visual Studio 2017, IIS7.5, ASP.NET, MVC 5, C#, VB.Net, Silverlight, WCF Services, Angular 5 , WPF Screens, Web API, Angular JS, AWS Cloud Deployment., CSS, Design Patterns, Power Shell, Web Forms, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2008/2012 R2, Stored Procedures and Crystal Reports. NET / Web Developer Pet smart, Pennsylvania - Nashville, TN September 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Framework in the iterative process of development.  • Enhanced the website for improvised usability for the customer, optimized page layout using .NET framework, HTML 5, CSS3, and wrote client-side validations using Java Script.  • Used angular 2 framework for building web-apps and Restful services.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML. Extensively used jQuery selectors in accessing various parts of the DOM. Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and Angular2.  • Created Single Page Application with the help of Angular 2 Router Module and used template routing for bread crumb.  • Worked on algorithms, data structures and multi-threading  • Used UI Bootsrap, Angular UI grid and MVC5 for developing rich user interface  • Developed WEB API services for the HTTP methods get, post, put, and delete for the metrics user story functionalities  • Created custom web apps using .net MVC, infragistic controls and knockout.js to customize company's business needs.  • Developed TELERIK Kendo UI controls for building the application, to focus on value generating development tasks.  • Used Visual Studio to create C# console applications that use LINQ, Dependency Injection, and inheritance.  • Designed the web UI using ASP.NET, HTML, Typescript, CSS, Web Forms and AJAX controls.  • Moved the Legacy code from vb script to C# with entity Framework 4.5 considering code first approach.  • Developed a password distribution module, which will display the initial password to the account owners  • Used XML to create web-based tools for transactions on SQL databases.  • Written automation scripts for testing WEB APIs by reading JSON files, processing with httpwebrequest and http web response objects.  • Used WPF for developing the desktop applications with MVVM pattern and created UI controls in XAML pages.  • Designed few WPF Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls for UI and Dynamic Web Parts for personalized content which allows Change, Edit, Move the content on pages as per users' own choice  • Used nHibernate, WPF to communicate between DAL and other business components.  • Developed application using WCF, RESTful Web Services for getting good responsive to the application from all modules of utilization.  • Used JSON for web services responses.  • Implemented Data Access layer using WCF, Web-API restful services and Entity Framework.  • Used SOAP protocol to transfer the XML based message such as applicant's requests and loan information over computer networks  • Applied multithreading techniques to improve the performance of applications.  • Involved in Data Mapping Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) to SQL database and in developing Data Access Component to access the SQL Server Database using ADO.NET  • Used ADO.NET features- Dataset, Data Adapter, and Data Reader in the data access layer which was built by implementing a custom persistence layer that uses ADO.NET and the caching  • Involved in implementation of the Entity Framework Object relational mapper(ORM) layer using DB first approach.  • Created and modified Oracle objects in PL/SQL  • Handled PL\SQL compile-time, run-time errors, debugging of Stored Procedures for business logic modification.  • Used LINQ to entities to query the database objects and manipulate data  • Worked with deployment, Setup IIS and TFS builds for different environment  • Followed N Tier Architecture development which involves Presentation Tier, Data Access Tier, Business Tier, Data base Tier.  • Setup the Database in Development, Production environment in Cloud-Microsoft SQL-Azure.  • Ensure code quality by implementing unit tests for all modules utilizing mocking frameworks,  • Followed TDD approach and created unit tests for the new functions written using C# and VB.net  • Developed import package to import data from Excel, CSV files into SQL server using SSIS and created ETL packages using SSIS.  • Made Order report, Inquiry report, check out report in Crystal report.  • Generated Reports as bar charts using different techniques like data filtering, adding interactivity, deploying reports to report server using SSRS and Telerik Reporting.    Environment: ASP.Net, Windows Applications, Windows Forms, Class Libraries, Framework 3.5 / 4.0 / 4.5, MVC5, C#, TELERIK Kendo UI, Crystal Reports, Bootstrap, Redux, multithreading, MSSQL, PL/SQL, Reporting Services, Web Services, WCF, XML, Progress, Visual basic, SSRS, SSIS, T-SQL. Net Developer Pet smart, Pennsylvania - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Good experience in all aspects of Software development life cycle (SDLC) as well as various phases in Agile Development.  • Worked on 3- Tier architecture application based on Business logic-layer and Data retrieved from Data Access layer  • Involved in Designing, Coding, Testing and Implementation of the application using Laravel framework.  • Involved in designing and developing web application using ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Web Forms, Dojo tool kit, AJAX Library, CSS, vue.js, HTML and JavaScript.  • Worked on client-side validations and Server-side validation using ASP server events.  • Used JavaScript for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Developed the complete HTML, CSS and JavaScript of the pages with emphasis on standard performance and accessibility using PHP.  • Developed user interface using Asynchronous validation for the fast and user-friendly access using AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript and XML.  • Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment.  • Worked on validating web forms using custom and inbuilt validation facilities in .NET environment.  • Worked on ADO.NET to make communication between client-side application and Database.  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter for consistent access to SQL data sources.  • Created I data Error Info interface for validating the User input in WPF MVVM.  • Developed MVVM framework to decouple view from Business layer in WPF.  • Configured Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) and windows presentation foundation (WPF) service to authenticate clients with Windows credentials for intranet applications for login validations.  • Experienced in using multiple WCF services to integrate patient and payment information with other systems and to interface with other payment management system.  • Developed Silverlight enabled WCF services with ASP .Net authentication services.  • Access ASP.Net WCF services from Silverlight applications and implement AJAX script to handle Silverlight events and manipulate Silverlight controls.  • Written WCF Services to perform data operations.  • Creating MSI Packages using Deployment Frame Work for various BizTalk applications which can be easily managed through Environment file spread sheet.  • Experienced in hosting and deployment of application and developed required documentation like user manuals.  • Involved in the Installation and configuration of BizTalk Server 2006 r2 for Development, Testing and Production environments.  • Utilized the WSDL's given by the third party and generated Schemas for BizTalk  • Designed complex orchestrations for business processing and Exception handling. Exceptions are logged and configured using enterprise library.  • Implemented SCOM with BizTalk 2006R2 and configuring application specific errors with SCOM to send e-mail alert notifications.  • Actively involved in BizTalk Administration in Host management, Adapters configuration, Ports, HAT, TPE, Custom Pipelines and custom functoids.  • Testing End to End Scenarios using different test cases.  • Wrote conversion scripts using SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures, functions and packages to migrate data from SQL server database to Oracle database.  • Used Oracle JDeveloper to support JA Built complex queries using SQL and wrote stored procedures using PL/SQL in Various API's like Java, .Net and Hierarchical databases like Oracle and Access.  • Wrote SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Plus programs required to retrieve data using cursors and exception handling.  • Worked on XML along with PL/SQL to develop and modify web forms.  • Designed and maintained database in SQL Server. Created tables, views, triggers, SQL Joins, user defined functions, triggers and stored procedures for different type of operations like updating data in the database, retrieving data etc.  • Designed various utilities, front end screens with PowerBuilder to serve the user needs and ease the work.  • Maintain Defects of the PowerBuilder Application along with resolution steps, change request of the PowerBuilder Application and issues with the application  • Worked with IIS to deploy and Authentication of application.  • Analyzed and contributed the requirements significantly in developing UML Diagrams.  • Performed extensive unit testing (end to end) and prepared detailed test scripts as a part of it.    Environment: Visual studio, .NET, SOAP &Restful Services, Biz Talk Server, JSON, Framework, MS.NET Framework, ASP.NET, WPF, VB.NET, C#.NET, ADO.NET, IIS, AJAX, Dojo tool kit, WCF, XML, XSL/XSLT, HTML, SQL Server, TFS, SSRS, UNIT TESTING, WCF. Education Master's Degree Skills .NET (3 years), ADO (3 years), ADO.NET (3 years), ASP (3 years), ASP.NET (3 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/vinodh-buddalamohan-374937167 Additional Information Technical Skills:    .Net Technologies: ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#, ADO.NET, WCF, WPF, LINQ, Entity Frameworks, ASP.NET MVC.  Languages: C, C#, VB.  Scripting Languages: Java Script, VB script, jQuery, Angular JS, Express.js, Angular 2/4/5 , Type Script, Gulp JS, Node JS, React JS, Ext JS  Web Technologies: ASP, XML, XAML, XSD, XSLT, Angular JS, JSON, HTML 5, CSS, Bootstrap, SCSS.  Web Services: IIS, IBM Web Sphere, REST, SOAP.  Version Controls: Team Foundation Server (TFS), SVN, Visual Source Safe(VSS).  Development Tools: Microsoft Visual studio 2012/2010/2008/2005, Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0, C#, Java Script, N-Hibernate.  Database: Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, IBM DB2, Mango DB.  Reporting Tools: Crystal reports, SSRS.