Lead .NET Developer Lead .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead .NET Developer - PRAXIS Mexico, MO ? Over 8+years of technical core skills include requirement gathering and analysis, client communication, delivery planning and scheduling, planning for meeting deadlines, driving the team to give high quality and timely output as lead or as individual development. And great fit for Windows, Web and WPF full stack development.  ? Extensively worked in various Microsoft technologies including ASP.NET, C#.NET, WPF/XAML, AJAX, ADO.NET, JavaScript, JQuery, LINQ, XML, Multithreading, Parallel Processing, SOA, Windows Services, Web API, SOAP/REST Web Services, Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), PowerShell, TFS, Entity Framework 4.0 and also worked on MVVM, MVC patterns.  ? Experience in developing UI using HTML, CSS, XML, XAML, JQuery, JSON and Angular (7+) framework.  ? Worked on creating web service using C# WCF and consuming web services.  ? Having sound understanding of N-Tier applications with SOA architecture and good exposure to development of Web based applications.  ? Extensive experience in designing Web Applications using front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax and building Cross Browser Compatibility Web Pages in Responsive Design using Bootstrap.  ? Experience in the deploying the applications using TFS.  ? Experience in mobile app development in IOS, Android, Windows app using Xamarin Studio  ? Proven experience in team leading with zero defect delivery. Equally comfortable working independently as well as in a team environment.  ? Worked on Agile Software Development (Scrum Development), Waterfall and also Hybrid (Agile in Waterfall).  ? Good understanding of designing Business Models using UML (Class, ER, Use Cases, Scenarios, Sequence diagrams, Flow Charts etc.)  ? Managed various software releases through proper definition, planning and monitoring of progress coordinated with QA and Product Support team.  ? Proven experience in team leading with zero defect delivery, equally comfortable working independently as well as in a team environment  ? Excellent Interpersonal and Communication skills coupled with strong technical and problem-solving capabilities.  ? Worked on the research for solving complex problems with Evolutionary Algorithms (EAs) and Heuristic approaches. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead .NET Developer PRAXIS - Mexico City, MX May 2018 to Present Clients: KidZania    Project Description: A web application for the management of amusement parks, tracking of products from acquisition to sales, the management of employees and data analysis tools. A desktop application for the operation of the park, from the entry and exit of visitors and going through the tracking of visitor activities and point of sales operation.  Responsibilities:  ? Gathering requirements from users, business analysts and will perform analysis, design, application implementation, testing and assist in deployment.  ? Developed the blueprint of the enterprise architecture in UML and implemented project using agile methodologies.  ? Build software functionalities with MVC and .NET, C#, ASP.Net.  ? Build software functionalities with MVVM and WPF.  ? Build WCF services.  ? Build UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS 7  ? Modify CRUD queries in response to the client requirements  ? Managing a team of software developers.  ? Build executables for desktop applications.  ? Knowledge of Normalization and Relational Database Management Systems.  ? Test driven development methodology used for fast and efficient task completion.  ? Lead team of 6 software developers and provided technical support. Also lead peer-reviews of solution designs and related code  Environment: C#, .Net, ASP.NET, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Angularjs 7, MVC, WCF, WPF, MVVM, Agile, Windows. Senior C#.Net Software Engineer Quetzal Games, S.A. de C.V., Leon - MX August 2016 to May 2018 Clients: COPROVI, Leon, Mexico    Project Description: A desktop application for construction QA inspectors. The application allows to track the progress of building quality inspection through the construction process.  Responsibilities:  ? Interacted with the client and gathered business requirements, analysis and involved in design of application.  ? Implemented middle Tier Business Component Development using C#.NET to incorporate business and back-end connectivity using entity framework.  ? Developed the data access layer using ADO.NET.  ? Implemented client-side validations using jQuery and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level.  ? Involved in migrating the data from SOA to RESTful services using ASP.NET Web API.  ? Developed the intranet web application with a 3-Tier architecture using .NET Framework 3.5, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2005, and Team Foundation Server (TFS).  ? Implemented WPF and XBAP to ease the presentation feature.  ? Experience on latest .Net Framework (3/3.5/4) with N - tier Architecture model and design patterns.  ? Developing windows application using C#.Net, WPF, Visual Studio 2013 and SQL Server 2008  ? Designing WPF Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls using XAML language for interactive UI  ? Implemented Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) to improve look and feel of the ASP.NET Web Page.  ? Extensively involved in designing Web applications using MVC 4.0, Razor Syntax, Entity Framework, JQuery and JavaScript for Client-Side validation, CSS3 and HTML5.  ? Involved in retrieving data using LINQ to SQL and LINQ to Objects with ASP.NET, worked with the database using LINQ to SQL.  ? Implemented Routing, URL, Security, Action Filter techniques for application development.  ? Developed UI test automation suites using Visual Studio Team System, C#, Coded UI and modifying automation codes.  ? Scheduling work and ensuring completion of deliverables by following AGILE methodology.  Environment: C#, .Net, ASP.Net MVC, ADO.Net, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, SOA, REST, Web API, TFS, WPF, LINQ, SQL, Agile, Windows. School of Evolutionary Computation February 2017 to May 2017 University of Guanajuato  Division of Economic & Administrative Sciences  ? COMIA 2017  ITESM campus Toluca  As an author C#.Net & Mobile developer Quetzal Games, S.A. de C.V., Leon - MX June 2014 to July 2016 Project Description: A mobile game for Android and Windows Phone.    Responsibilities:  ? Conceptual game design for IOS and Android.  ? Game development for Android with C# and Corona SDK.  ? Development of different Web Application using ASP.NET, WCF and C#.  ? Developing Desktop Applications using WCF, WPF, C# and SQL Server  ? Develop proof of concept cross-platform applications for Android  ? Created custom Script (JavaScript) includes handling specialized requirement tasks. Other modifications included were: Email Notifications, Navigation Menus, Front-end/Backend Interfaces and Layouts, Lists.  ? Responsible to develop iOS and Android application using Xamarin.  ? Developed services using WCF (Windows Communication Foundation) technologies.  ? Implemented LINQ for querying, sorting, filtering the complex objects.  ? Developed and used various Web forms, Custom Controls, User controls using ASP.NET, C# and JavaScript.  ? Perform in-depth code-analysis to improve system performance and security.  ? Created new Catalog and Request Items and their corresponding workflows.  ? Fixing issues in internal and external web application.  Environment: C#, XNA studio, Corona SDK, Web Services, Xamarin, Android. C#.Net Web developer Centro de Investigaciones en Óptica, A.C., Leon - MX May 2011 to June 2014 Project Description: A web application to help aspiring students to manage their application for research scholarships and help the researchers to evaluate candidates.  Responsibilities:  ? Coded, tested and deployed .NET Web application with Razor Views, MSSQL server database.  ? Report design and functionality bugs.  ? Design and development of entire systems based on web and windows technology using C# .Net and Microsoft technologies.  ? Maintained applications that are used in the company for manufacturing, process control, account and administrative tasks.  ? Coded programming logic in modules and user controls using C#.  ? Communicate with server team to discuss and provide technical solutions to develop web services for data communication between client and server.  ? Designed user interface screens using user controls and Web forms. Designed and developed Custom controls to use with web forms.  ? Designed and developed a windows application and component using C# to automatically generate user control templates for this application by reading and parsing XML source files.  ? Heavily used LINQ to SQL to retrieve data about Customers & Transactions.  ? Build new functionality for web applications.  ? Bug fixes and application maintenance.  ? Involved in bug finding and fixing and testing the modules by writing Unit Tests.  Environment: C#.Net, Razor Views MVC, JQuery, JSON, XML, Visual Studio 2010, MS SQL Server, AJAX, Windows.    Congresses and Acknowledgments:  ? X International Congress of Computational Systems, Technological of Monterrey Campus Guadalajara  ? First place in advanced programming in Ninth Programming Contest of the University of La Salle Cuernavaca  ? First Technology Forum  University of La Salle Bajío León, Gto  Faculty of Computer and Electronics Engineering Education Master's Degree in Computational Sciences in Computational Sciences National Technological Institute of Mexico Bachelor of Software Engineering and Computational Systems in Software Engineering and Computational Systems De La Salle Bajío University