Associate App Developer Associate App <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front-End Developer Reston, VA I am a front-end React developer with 2 years of professional experience. I also hold a BFA in videogame design and have worked abroad in Tokyo, Japan. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate App Developer Blue Raster - Arlington, VA January 2019 to Present 1. Work within a team of developers, GIS analysts, graphic designers, and project managers to build geospatial apps for global brands that utilize Esri's ArcGIS.  2. Create and style React components for National Geographic and World Resource Institute’s Global Forest Watch Pro and Map builder apps.  3. Participate in daily code reviews, meetings with clients, and occasionally lead weekly lunch training seminars for Blue Raster’s dev team.     Languages/Libraries/Frameworks: JavaScript (ES8), React, Redux, ArcGIS (Esri), HTML5, CSS3/SCSS, Material UI, Cypress, Git, Docker Junior Web Developer Spiritous, LLC - Woodstock, VA February 2018 to December 2018 1. Collaborated with a small team in a SCRUM work environment to improve and debug errors for clients' websites hosted on SharePoint and WordPress.  2. Worked with senior developer to create custom web parts and page layouts in SharePoint.  3. Occasionally designed logos and wireframes using Adobe XD, Photoshop & Illustrator.  4. Participated in meetings and user research to help understand client's target audience as well as developed an information architecture and branding strategy for them.     Languages/Libraries/Frameworks: JavaScript(ES6), jQuery, C3.js, HTML5, CSS/SASS, Bootstrap, Node.js, PHP/Laravel, Git, Gulp  Platforms: SharePoint (2013 & 2016), WordPress CMS Applications Developer I WSP USA - Winchester, VA July 2017 to February 2018 1. Redesigned layouts for WSP's FEMA inspector registration webpages and expense reports app.  2. Created 3D art assets for inspector training simulation app prototype using Blender and Unity3D.  3. Ran Selenium automated tests on intranet SharePoint site.  4. Helped make phone calls to FEMA inspector applicants for training seminar registration during 2017 hurricane disasters.    Languages/Libraries/Frameworks: JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Selenium, C#  Platforms: SharePoint (2013), Unity3d, Blender Freelance UI Artist Next Player Up - Winchester, VA November 2016 to June 2017 Photoshop, Illustrator, XD]  § Created web graphics and page layouts for upcoming videogame review website, nextplayerup.com. Education Mobile Web Specialist Nanodegree Udacity April 2018 to August 2018 BFA in Computer Game Design George Mason University - Fairfax, VA January 2010 to August 2013 Skills Wordpress, Javascript, JQuery, HTML 5, CSS3, SCSS, Sharepoint, Programming, 3D Studio Max, Blender, Photoshop, Illustrator, Unity3d, React, Adobe XD, Microsoft Office, Git (2 years), Front-End, UI, Front End, React, HTML5, User Interface, Bootstrap, Node Links https://github.com/KaylaKremer https://www.kaylakremer.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/kaylakremer/ Awards JS Conf US Opportunity Scholarship 2018-08 I was selected as one of thirteen opportunity scholarship recipients to attend JS Conf US 2018 in Carlsbad, CA. Grow with Google Developer Scholarship 2018-04 I was awarded a scholarship by Google as part of their Grow with Google program to take one of Udacity's Nanodegree programs for free. Google Women Techmakers International Women's Day 2019 2019-03 I was selected by Google Women Techmakers to attend their summit in Washington DC to celebrate International Women's Day. Certifications/Licenses Udacity Mobile Web Specialist Nanodegree October 2018 to Present As part of the Grow with Google Developer Scholarship Program, I earned the Mobile Web Specialist Nanodegree through Udacity.    Certificate Verification: https://confirm.udacity.com/4LLGK9MF