Sr. iOS Developer Sr. iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. iOS Developer - COMCAST Philadelphia, PA Sr.IOS Developer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. iOS Developer COMCAST - Philadelphia, PA April 2018 to Present IOS Developer iOS Developer Autodesk Inc - Plano, TX November 2016 to March 2018 Autodesk Inc. is an American multinational software corporation that makes software services for the architecture, engineering, construction, manufacturing, media, education, and entertainment industries. Autodesk SketchBook is the painting and drawing application which is available in different operating system. As an iOS Developer, I mostly worked with the UIKit framework to display content on screen and facilitate user interactions with responders and gesture recognizers.    ? Worked in an Agile/Scrum environment to deliver high quality software against aggressive schedules.  ? Worked in Jira for tracking and assigning of tasks and continuous integration.  ? Worked on building the app in an MVC pattern.  ? The UI was updated with new brushes options with color editors.  ? To comply with the Swift Coding Style, made and used of Protocols and Extensions.  ? Implemented the drag and drop interactions within the app.  ? Implement the common access menu items with the UIKit Gestures, touches and presses.  ? Try the new ruler and ellipse tools to place precise lines or elliptical shapes, such as circles in perspective, by adjusting the position, size, rotation, and aspect ratio of the drawing guides.  ? Implemented the CALayer for reposition the line of symmetry, anywhere on the canvas, for precise control.  ? Used UIImagePickerController for taking pictures and choosing items from the user's media library.  ? Used Keychain wrapper to safely store the user's card details and address in the personal profile.  ? Developed navigation between various views with a combination of UINavigationController, Segues, and UIGestureRecognizer.  ? Worked with Crashlytics to fix crashes to improve user experience  ? Handle different response of a request made by the Alamofire.  ? Used GIT under the branching model and using a private repository for version control of the source.  ? Worked on parsing the JSON data from the database using Codable protocols.  ? Used instruments to improve the performance of the app  ? Used Core Data to save a user's previous orders for quick reorder  ? Tested the end application for any relevant bugs to resolve memory management issues using Instruments.  ? Adding Analytics checks within the app for better tracking.  ? Used XCTest Framework for creating unit test cases.    Environment: Xcode (7/8), Swift (4x/3x), iOS(11.x/10.x), MVC, Github, UIKit, Networking, Agile, Scrum iOS Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA June 2015 to October 2016 T-mobile is itself the brand name in the mobile communications world which is a subsidiary of the German telecommunications company Deutsche Telekom AG. The project is to build the customer service mobile application allowing their clients to pay their bills, track their mobile data usage, shop for phones, contact customer support, and various other services.    Responsibilities:  ? Project managed using Agile/Scrum methodology; code delivered in 2 weeks sprints.  ? Worked in an existing hybrid codebase utilizing Swift 2 and Objective-C.  ? Customized UI components using Core Graphics and CALayer, including UIVIews, UIButtons, UITableViews, UITabBars, etc with provided wireframes and mock.  ? Worked extensively to improve the UI/UX fluidity by multithreading individual processes.  ? Performed backend RESTful API calls made using URLSession for requests and responses using callbacks and delegation.  ? Refactored codebase to ensure secure web service requests by using HTTPS.  ? Utilized JSONSerialization to parse the information received from the server.  ? Executed unit tests within Xcode using the XCTest library.  ? Implemented Core Data to store sensitive user information in the phone, utilizing the Keychain to securely store minimal amounts of sensitive information.  ? Helped in the creation of a generic module for Push Notifications.  ? Lead code reviews with developers in the development process and collaborated to solve any problems that arose.  ? Actively reviewed codebase, detecting bugs before they appeared and provided solutions promptly.  ? Developed in both production and QA environments, adjusting the codebase for the two different schemes to segregate testing.  ? Worked on a mobile team composed of several other iOS and Android developers, one designer, a dedicated QA team and the server team.  Environment: Xcode (7.x), Swift (2.x/3.x), iOS 9.x, Instruments, Git, iPhone/ iPad, Agile Methodology, Objective-C, CocoaPods, JSON, Core Data, Git. Mobile Developer NCR CORPORATION - Atlanta, GA January 2014 to April 2015 The NCR Corporation is a US-based computer hardware, software, and Electronics Company that provides products and services that enable businesses to connect, interact and transact with their customers. The pulse banking application takes the data from NCR Vision and OptiSuite and summarizes it into an NCR Pulse Banking applications in mobile Devices. As the mobile developer in the project, I was involved in preparing documents, developing the test, consumed and hosted web services and developing UI for mobile applications.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in preparing the understanding document and test estimates for the project.  ? Involved in developing test plans, creating and executing test cases, identifying defects and raising tickets in Jira.  ? Have performed functional, Integration, Regression and Acceptance Testing.  ? Consumed and hosted web services using Rest.  ? Developed UI for mobile applications in various platforms.  ? Hands on experience in SQL, Procedures, Triggers and Views and created tables for the automated test cases to save the results.  ? Fixed several bugs reported by the manager.  ? Worked on Web Services JSON parsing included in the project.  ? Implemented NS Operation Queue and NSURL Connection to integrate with backend web services.  ? Involved in Code Review, code fixes, and bug Fixes.  ? Worked on the project in different environments.    Environment: Xcode 6x, SQL, Jira, Git, REST, JSON, Instruments, Objective-C Front End Web Developer YOMORI Inc - Kathmandu, NP February 2012 to December 2013 Nepal    One of the oldest tech companies in Nepal is Yomari Inc. Yomari is known for its banking software. As a web developer, I was responsible for designing, coding and modifying client websites, from layout to function and according to the client's specifications.    Responsibilities:  ? Regular meeting with the business stakeholders and executive management.  ? Planning and delivering software platforms used across multiple products and organizational units.  ? Collaborate with back-end developers.  ? Created visually appealing sites that feature user-friendly design, cross-browser compatibility and web functions and standards.  ? Developing new user-facing features  ? Handling and deep functional experience with Web Services (REST and SOAP) Education Bachelor's in Software Engineering in Pokhara Pokhara University December 2011 Skills Design patterns, Git, Html, Javascript, Json Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Swift 4.x/5.x, Objective C, C, JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS  Frameworks Cocoa Touch, Core Foundation, UIKit, Core Location, Core Data, Core Animation, Notification Center, WebKit, XCTest,  Web Services RESTful Web Services, JSON, XML  IDE/Tools XCode, Git, JIRA  Operating System iOS, macOS, Windows  Databases Core Data, Realm, SQLite,  Design Patterns MVC, MVVM, Singleton