Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - National Travel Products Inc Kearny, NJ • Over 4 years' hands on experience as Java Backend Developer in using Java EE Frameworks.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile Methodologies using Java EE  technologies.  • Worked on Web Services based applications on SOAP and REST protocols.  • Experience in Object Oriented Design (OOD) and Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)  • Transfer the data among multiple web pages.  • Knowledge in Object Oriented analysis & design (OOAD), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA),  Model-View-Controller Architectures (MVC), 3Tier Architecture (Presentation Layer/Business Layer/Data  Access Layer).  • Experience of analysis and design in SQL and No SQL database.  • Experience of SVN and JIRA for CI/CD.  • Good communication skills, interpersonal skills and effective organizational skills, capable of working  independently with the minimal supervision and perform as part of a team. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer National Travel Products Inc - Linden, NJ August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implement full software development life-cycle (SDLC) in an agile environment;  • Use detailed workflow charts, diagrams and other documents to analyze the design of programs, describe  desired features and operations;  • Write, test and debug code according to requirements- primarily in Java related technologies, using  Eclipse;  • Contribute productively to a fast paced agile/scrum software development team (daily stand-ups, code  reviews, task estimation, unit testing, continuous integration, short bursts of delivery);  • Test driven development experience in Java using JUnit test;  • Develop software including object-oriented analysis & design (OOAD), debugging, unit testing, and integration;  • Develop services and programs in the methodology of Service-oriented Architecture (SOA) and 3-Tier  architecture - Presentation Layer, Business Layer, and Data Access Layer.  • Front end development with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and JSP;  • Develop Business Layer and Data Access Layer using Spring MVC, Spring, and MyBatis;  • Add some service modules using spring boot and spring cloud;  • Install and configure Tomcat server to resolve the web resources;  • Compile and write documentation of program development and subsequent revisions, inserting comments  in the code so others can understand the program;  • Deploy the web-based application onto AWS EC2 Linux servers;  • Review, refine and rewrite programs or expand existing programs to increase operating efficiency or adapt  to new requirements; and  • Write instructions to guide end users. Web Application Developer Tenghui International Trading Co., Ltd - Ningbo, CN August 2013 to May 2016 China  Responsibilities:  • Develop Business Management Platform (BMP) for the company internal use.  • Participate in two stages of BMP: product shipping management and export data for other department to make decisions.  • Collect requirements for the web application.  • Create different tables in Database use E-R diagram and imported previous data into Database.  • Implement AJAX support for better user experience and good performance.  • Use Apache Shiro to implement the security management that performs authentication, authorization, cryptography, and session management.  • Visualize data using JFreeChart.  • Implement web services using Spring.  • Test programs using JUnit Test and use SVN for code version control.  • Deploy project to Tomcat on remote Linux Server and maintained the application. IT Specialist Zhong Da Lian Co, .Ltd - Beijing, CN August 2011 to July 2013 China  Responsibilities:  • Maintain the computers in the office.  • Install operating systems for different computers.  • Install soft-wares and printers.  • Maintain the offices network.  • Back up the business data.  • Analyze data for business performance. Education Master in Computer Science in Computer Science New Jersey Institute of Technology September 2016 to May 2018 Skills Ajax, Css, nginx, Tomcat, Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Jsp, Servlet, Hadoop, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Object-oriented design, Object-oriented programming, Svn, Xml