Office Administrator Office Administrator Office Administrator - Longbranch / Paisan San Francisco, CA Work Experience Office Administrator Longbranch / Paisan April 2018 to Present Manage the daily aspect of the office including expense reports, payroll, business analysis and technical support as needed. Software Administrator University of San Francisco January 2018 to April 2018 Served as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) in providing L3 support across 10+ applications encompassing Canvas, StarRez, Event Management System (EMD), DegreeWorks, Applications Manager, and MICROS. Oversaw the integration of Oracle across multiple applications. Senior Software Engineer Topgolf Media - San Francisco, CA May 2013 to January 2017 Oversaw the development of new features and administration of existing code supporting 17M+ registered players producing 15K+ players in daily games. Managed the extension and maintenance of C# server code consumed by Flash, iOS, and Android clients. Maintained an internal MVC administration website. Led the development and execution of MS SQL database tables, indexes and stored procedures. Leveraged CodeSmith and Neutron to access databases and synchronize nodes. Designed NUnit testing to validate code and perform regression testing. Created and maintained existing MS SQL indexes.  ? Championed the development of scalable WCF and RESTful web services enabling the maintenance of game states across multiple nodes.  ? Optimized server performance by utilizing IIS Cache, Redis and Memcached. Contract Web Developer World Golf Tour - San Francisco, CA November 2012 to May 2013 Identified and updated text and images for localization across 400+ pages, user controls, and JavaScript files. Administered MS SQL database.  ? Effectively deployed and tested various new features. Contractor Longbranch / Paisan - Berkeley, CA March 2011 to October 2012 Contracted to oversee the establishment and administration of network and backups. Developed role-based and remote access entities. Performed new equipment installation such as POS terminals and printers.  ? Spearheaded the development of custom Excel-based functionality utilized in importing data from various software platforms driving analysis in time, sales, labor, product mix, employee productivity, customer trends, and business forecasting.  ? Successfully moved in-house email system to Constant Contact.  ? Migrated email distribution list from Go Daddy. Web Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA April 2008 to November 2009 June 2010 - November 2010)  Collaborated in the development, design, and deployment of a web application focused on capturing and managing user feedback. Administered and updated existing web applications supporting 12 lines of business. Generated interactive SSRS reports.  ? Enabled team member feedback on current software and processes through the design and implementation of a web application.  ? Implemented reports utilizing line graphs highlighting spikes in specific call areas over time to identify trends.  ? Enhanced training processes enabling accurate tracking and reporting by converting a PowerPoint presentation into a web application.  ? Deployed and managed Visual SVN version control system. Education High school or equivalent Skills Sql, Mvc, .net, Visual studio, Application development Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/thomaslhudson