Team Lead - Front End Web Developer Team Lead - Front End <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer El Monte, CA Over 3 years of front end web development experience in React (Node.js) with excellent knowledge in JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Team Lead - Front End Web Developer AiTmed - Anaheim, CA December 2018 to Present ? Built the company's website and web applications from scratch using the latest industry standard technologies in Node.js using JavaScript, HTML and CSS with React.js  ? Led and worked with a team of Web Developers by providing direction, guidance, contributions to best practices and code design patterns to accomplish projects effectively and efficiently.  ? Self-built and implemented a Software Development Kit private NPM package for the company from scratch with TypeScript based on backend HTTP APIs, securing a firm long-term support for developing applications quicker and more efficiently for future projects.  ? Self-built and implemented a company React component library intended to be re-used for all interfaces  ? Written documentation for the Software Development Kit and Read component library  ? Assist chief officers in hiring decisions of candidates for the web development team  ? Search Engine Optimization (SEO) Front End Web Developer AiTmed - Anaheim, CA August 2018 to December 2018 ? Develop front-end web applications with JavaScript, HTML, and CSS using React.js  ? Search Engine Optimization (SEO) IT Support Specialist Continental Agency Inc - Pomona, CA August 2015 to August 2018 ? Installing and configuring computer hardware, software, systems, networks, printers and scanners  ? Troubleshoot system problems, diagnosing and solving hardware or software faults  ? Responding in a timely manner to service issues and requests  ? Providing technical support across the company  ? Automate daily reports sent to division team managers  ? Replace parts as required Education Associate in Graphic Design California State University-Los Angeles - Los Angeles, CA August 2013 to November 2015 Skills React (3 years), Redux (3 years), JavaScript (4 years), HTML5 (5 years), CSS3 (3 years), jQuery (3 years), Node.js (4 years), Amazon Web Services (3 years), Front End (4 years), HTML (5 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/christopher-trann https://healthfulinspired.com https://jsmanifest.com Certifications/Licenses Responsive Web Design Certification - www.freecodecamp.org December 2016 to Present Completed all challenges and projects for the front end developer responsive web design certification. Additional Information SKILLS  Concepts  ? HTTP / REST Architecture Design  ? DOM Manipulation Techniques  ? Single Page Applications  ? UI Design and Implementation  ? Customer Engagement Design  ? Search Engine Optimization (SEO)  ? Debugging    Technical  ? Languages: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, TypeScript, JSON  ? Tools: Node.js, React, Redux, Webpack, Git, GraphQL  ? Applications: Atom, Visual Studio Code  ? Operating Systems: Windows, Ubuntu  ? Database Systems: DynamoDB  ? Services: Amazon Web Services, Firebase