Web Developer III <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> III Photogragher/ Web Developer/Graphic Designer Houston, TX I am a passionate photographer, graphic designer, and web developer that enjoys transforming the way audiences view, interact with, and experience digital and print media. With over eight years of experience working in systems like Wordpress, Wix, and Dreamweaver as well as creating anything from billboards to digital magazine layouts, I bring thoughtful perspective and a blend of creative chops heavy on digital savvy. A team player, I am recognized for my impassioned approach to projects and colorful, outside of the box ideas. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer III The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston - Houston, TX October 2016 to Present Lead designer and co- developer of the McGovern Medical School Department of Surgery's website and worked with a team to implement it in the first year of employment. Currently lead administrator of the website for McGovern Medical School Department of Surgery. Conducts usability testing and adheres to usability standards. Contributes to university Web guidelines through interaction with other leaders in Web development. Copy editor, designer, and distributor of the internal email based quarterly newsletter, SurgeOn, for the Department of Surgery. Designed print and digital media as needed for use by the department. Communications Specialist Texas A&M University at Galveston November 2010 to October 2016 Designed print and digital media for items such as fliers, magazine layouts, and billboards as well as to be used in emails and on the website. Designer and developer of the Aggies By The Sea website. Lead designer and co- developer of the previous TAMUG website and worked with a team to implement it in the first year of employment. Co- developer of the updated TAMUG website and worked with a team to implement it. Lead end-user trainer as well as co-administrator of the Cascade web content management system. Developer, designer, and distributor of the internal email based newsletter, the Sea Aggie Daily. Monitored, and posted items to social media outlets. Photographer and content writer. Education Associate of Science in (A.S.), Design and Visual Communications San Jacinto College 2005 to 2010 Skills Wordpress, Front End, HTML, CSS, Illustrator, Indesign, Photoshop, Word, Powerpoint, Excel, Writing, Photography, CMS, Dreamweaver, HTML5 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/theadreaming http://theadreaming.myportfolio.com