Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Development Instructor - EdgeTech Academy Dallas, TX Work Experience Lead Developer Brierley+Partners - Frisco, TX August 2018 to Present Brierley + Partners is a CRM and loyalty solutions company that underwent a significant transformation into the agile world. I have helped the transformation by leading a team of developers using the leadership and Agile experience I have. Using the Spotify model, I was the anchor who held all agile ceremonies, while continuing to develop and design large scale and complex promotions for our loyalty program. I have worked on several large scale projects for enterprise clients such as Hertz, Moneygram and Essilor, and made sure that through my quick and careful design, a quality product and promotion would be achieved. I have built web-applications from front-end to back-end all the while as maintaining a self-organized attitude.    • Wrote code with MVC, .NET C#, Oracle SQL and AngularJS   • Led a team of around 10 engineers with design and solutioning and led Agile ceremonies  • Created unit test cases to follow TDD standard using Moq  • Created automated cron jobs using file feeds for inbound and outbound  • Pioneered our sites’ security changes in order to comply with today’s current standards Software Development Instructor EdgeTech Academy - Hurst, TX March 2018 to Present Edge Tech Academy is a software development career school that teaches the latest and greatest cutting-edge technologies used in today’s workforce. Edge Tech was looking for a young and talented developer with excellent communication and teaching skills who is passionate about programming and keeps up with the latest trends. I taught students with no prior knowledge of programming concepts as well as several programming languages and frameworks. I wrote the curriculum of courses, as well as mentored students regarding best practices. I managed and assisted/collaborated on their professional projects, set up their resumes, as well as conducted/coached them on mock interviews.     • Taught software development courses   (Node.js, C#/.NET MVC, SQL, REST, Angular, Java/Spring, JavaScript and HTML)   • Managed professional projects requested by companies such as Classic Masonry LTD and Co-Angler   • Created programs for students’ orientation with highly customizable code  • Worked on special projects for the company Software Engineer - C# MedCloud Plus - Dallas, TX February 2018 to Present MedCloud Plus is a startup company that was looking for a software developer to build their automated credentialing system used by physicians and associates. I worked as a programmer and built the front-end web application, back-end database, and PDF generator which creates a completed form compliant with the Texas Credentialing process. The page was designed keeping user experience in mind as well as saves user session and data.    • Wrote code with MVC, .NET C#, SQL Server and AngularJS  • Maintained VSTS source control repository  • Created test cases to run code without starting the application  • Reverse Engineered PDF documents as well as mapping and generation C++ / C# Generalist Programmer Katchy Games Inc - Montréal, QC May 2013 to September 2017 Katchy Games is an independent startup company that creates fun and quirky games, for a core audience that like to challenge themselves through skills and puzzle solving. I worked as the main developer and generalist programmer for all games. I built the front-end (UI/UX), back-end (the core game logic and SDK integration) as well as deployed the projects for the company on app marketplaces. I worked with designs given to me and created art assets for the company as well. I contributed to the optimization through file compression and improved gameplay fluidity through strong algorithmic design.    • Planned and designed through development of proof of concept (PoC)  • Created unique and user-friendly games using C++ (Cocos2dx) and C# (Unity3D)  • Integrated games to a database (SQL Server) and SDKs (AdMob, Unity iAP, Facebook SDK and Google Play SDK)  • Optimized code and fix bugs  • Maintained code in GIT source control repositories JavaScript Web Developer / Agent Katchy Games Inc - Saint-Laurent, QC November 2013 to June 2017 TELUS is Canada’s leading telecommunications corporation and wireless provider. I worked as a developer to ease day to day operations of and tasks in the call center which leads to less expense and better profit margins. I created a proof of concept application which generates agents’ post-call notes dynamically using very few input fields. I created a feasibility document and proposal to save the company millions of dollars in expense and managed the application’s development and deployment which is now being used across the several departments in the company.    • Automated post-call notes through JavaScript and HTML based platform  • Managed the project development cycle with 3rd party and in-house developers  • Wrote technical documents and business proposal documentation  • Testing and debugging product through Smartsheet Web Programmer Quebec Center for Biodiversity Science - Montréal, QC January 2013 to July 2013 QCBS is a biodiversity research company that is a subsidiary of McGill University. The company was looking for a developer to create a user-friendly web interface that generates integrated forms that work with the mobile application ODK Collect. I created the business model as well as the entire application as the sole front-end and back-end programmer. The application is now being throughout the company on research fields, and data is sent to a central database for report generation.    • Generated XML forms for Android applications through user-friendly web interface  • Written in HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, and PHP  • Integrated application with a MySQL Database Education B.S. in Computer Science Concordia University - Montréal, QC December 2016 D.E.C. in Computer Science John Abbott College - Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue, QC July 2013 Ecole Secondaire Dorval-Jean XXIII - Dorval, QC June 2010 Skills C/C++, C#, Bash, Haskell, Python, Lua, ActionScript, Perl, Visual Basic, Oracle SQL, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, PHP, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, CSS, Microsoft Office, ASP.NET, MVC, Unity, Unreal Engine, Cocos2d, GIT, AngularJS, Node.js, React.js, Teaching Certifications/Licenses MTA Networking MTA Database Administration Additional Information HONORABLE MENTIONS AND AWARDS  * MTA Database Administration Certified  * Recognition for Contribution to Student Life at John Abbott College  * MTA Networking Administration Certified  * Notable Leader for Students at Jean XXIII