Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Field Technician - HP/Insight Global To obtain a full time position as a web developer specializing in JavaScript, React, HTML, and CSS. Recent graduate  with a Web Scripting and Database Programming certificate from Seattle Central College. Previously as a Field Service  Technician I provided client support for a wide range of technologies, researching solutions to problems and  educating clients on the solutions. With my exceptional work ethic and technical skills I can work alongside other  talented professionals in creating websites and web apps to the very highest standard. Work Experience Web Developer Self-Exmployed - Seattle, WA February 2019 to Present • Creating and updating websites for clients and businesses  • Use of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node.JS, and React.js to build MERN stacks  • Constant contact with clients to ensure their requests are met Field Technician HP/Insight Global - Seattle, WA 2019 to Present Setting up and installing new equipment including printers, servers, and computers  ? Work independently or as a team with constant contact with the control room  ? Keep meticulous notes about the site for future work, work at hand, and inventory Self Employed Self Employed - Seattle, WA 2019 to Present Freelance Web Developer  ? Creating and updating websites for clients and businesses  ? Use of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node.JS, and React.js to build MERN stacks  ? Constant contact with clients to ensure their requests are met Server/Food Runner Seattle, WA 2014 to Present Take guests food and beverage orders and provide an excellent customer service experience  ? Extensive knowledge of menu items and wine selection  ? Employee of the Month Education Certificate Seattle Central College - Seattle, WA 2018 to 2018 Certificate South Seattle College - Seattle, WA 2014 to 2018 Bachelor of Arts in Psychology in Psychology San Francisco State University - San Francisco, CA 2006 to 2010 Skills Javascript, Node.js, Database administration, Database, Sql server, Sql, Linux, Linux/unix, Unix, Html5, jquery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/joseph-beck-castro Additional Information Technical Skills    ? JavaScript  ? Node.JS  ? React.js  ? jQuery  ? MERN Stack  ? HTML5  ? CSS3  ? SQL Server  ? Database Administration  ? Linux/Unix Environments