Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Broadcom Inc San Jose, CA • 8 years of experience with front-end web development using HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, jQuery, ReactJS, Redux AngularJS, Bootstrap, DOM Manipulation, ES 5/6, Ajax, JSON, XML.  • Good experience in developing client-centric robust web applications with Single Page Applications (SPAs) framework using components like Layouts, Data Model, Binding, Trees, Grids, Widgets and AngularJS.  • Proficient in using front-end applications using frameworks including HTML, SASS, JavaScript and Angular.JS to develop Responsive Single Page Application.  • Used Bootstrap for responsive design and worked with JSP templates & AngularJS.  • Proficient in developing using AngularJS Forms, Events, Validations, Modules, Factory Services, DOM, Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters.  • Experienced in implementing OOO JavaScript MVC, HTML5 applications using libraries - JavaScript, jQuery and Bootstrap etc.  • Experience in implementing jQuery for some models in the application.  • Expertise in developing charts using JavaScript API High charts.  • Developed web applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML.  • Responsible in developing Rich Web Interface modules with JSP, Ajax, Tags, JavaScript, CSS, HTML.  • Used JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript to render the dynamic web pages (presentation layer) for the application.  • Used Agile Development Methodology and Scrum team structure for the development process.  • Handled Browser compatibility issues in HTML, CSS and JavaScript for IE, Firefox, Safari and Chrome browsers.  • Good experience in developing applications using IDE's like Eclipse, Sublime and Atom.  • Used text editors like Notepad++, Edit Plus, Sublime and Text pad.  • Proactive and innovative team Player proven to work under tight deadlines and capable of work efficiently as an individual. Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Broadcom Inc - San Jose, CA March 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed new Components in Project Portfolio Management website and implemented the design in a Hybrid Application using Html5, CSS Preprocessor like SASS, Bootstrap Directives, JavaScript, ES6, AngularJS and Angular 5.  • Developed dropdown components using Bootstrap Directives.  • Developed Multiple selection, Single selection, Simple Dropdown Components.  • Developed Modal instances by retrieving the data from the backend.  • Worked on integrating and upgrading the ag-grid library in to the website.  • Worked on POCs by implementing the third-party libraries like @ng-select Component.  • Interacted closely with UX team in implementing the requirements.  • Downgraded the Angular 5 Components in to Angular JS Directives.  • Worked with API team to consume the data to the UI.  • Used Rally to log the new requirements/bugs/spikes.  • Development of project using version control systems like GIT.  • Used Agile methodology for the development process.  • Created new Components in migrating some of the AngularJS Components in to React using Redux for POCs.  • Tested the application using framework like Jasmine with karma.  • Used Protractor for e2e testing    Environment: JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular5, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Rally, Sublime, Agile methodology, Azure cloud. Sr. UI Developer Alaska Airlines - Burlingame, CA March 2018 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  • Development, design using Html5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, ES6, ReactJS and jest for testing.  • Developing the new Shopping Cart Feature using ReactJS.  • Involved in the Product Owner and UX meetings regarding the new designs and new features of the application.  • Implemented City Picker, Calendar page and the Customer information Form page.  • Developed Test cases for the application using JEST.  • Developed Interactive Route Map as a Gadget using technologies like ReactJS and Redux for state management.  • Worked on React JS Form Events to select the City List from the City Picker.  • Developed state management for the storage and dispatched the actions using Redux.  • Handled cross browser compatibility issues in browsers.  • Worked closely with Backend team in retrieving the data using middleware proxies.  • Designed responsive ROUTEMAP using MAPBOX features.  • Optimized Animation logic for the faster rendering.  • Worked with API team in limiting the number of calls per request.  • Involved in OBN application, where user receives email notifications regarding their Schedule changes.  • Developed Gateways to call Sabre using Java and logs using log4j and Sumo Logic.  • Calling web services using SOAPUI projects.  • Logged tasks, issues and bugs in VERSION ONE.  • Used Visual Studio Code and Visual Studio IDE for the development of the code.  • Involved in Team mobbing sessions to learn and improve the code quality.  • Used Agile methodology for the development process.  • Building the application with Microsoft Services like Azure Portal using CI/CD process.  • Developed SOAP UI project to test the webservice calls data.  • Involved in Mobile Web Application for the Schedule change flow.    Environment: Java, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, SoapUI, Version one, Sublime, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Agile methodology, Azure cloud, ReactJS, Redux. Sr. UI/ Web Developer Virgin America - Burlingame, CA August 2015 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Interacting with business analyst to understand the requirements to ensure correct UI modules been built to meet business requirements.  • UI/UX implementation of a web application including Design, Prototyping, Development and testing phases.  • Gathering and analyzing the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Application development, testing and debugging using Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, ES5/6, AJAX, JSON, ReactJS, AngularJS, Require JS, Node JS and Bootstrap.  • Developed testing environment with City picker List and Date Picker List using ReactJS.  • Used FLUX for the State storage of cities and Fare deals.  • Development of page layouts and navigations.  • Development of project using version control systems like GIT.  • Development of technical specifications using IDE'S and Word.  • Involved in composing application level code to cooperate with APIs,  • Retrieved API Web Services utilizing AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Worked in developing dynamic robust UI screens using CSS, HTML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, Angular2/4, Bootstrap and jQuery.  • Worked in Modern UI methodologies to create multi screening pages with front end applications.  • Worked on Content Management System (CMS) for publishing the dynamic pages on the server.  • Migrated the whole application from Akamai to Azure cloud  • Experience in Agile methodologies to create an updated client-side application.  • Designed and developed user-friendly web-based interfaces using JSP, HTML5, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and Custom Tags.  • Worked in RWD development with HTML, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AngularJS, Require JS, AJAX and JSON.  • Worked on CSS preprocessor frameworks (SASS 3.4 & LESS 2.0).  • Implemented AJAX in web pages for accessing application data without refresh the whole pages for better user experience.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Experience on Azure cloud for the deployment process.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Prototyped UI designs using: Wireframes, Visio, PowerPoint, hand coded prototyped UI designs.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Unit test all the front-end AngularJS code using Jasmine.  • Used GIT as source repository and controlling versions of the code.    Environment: Java, Webservices, Require.js, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, GitHub, Sublime, Eclipse, Agile methodology, Azure cloud and ReactJS for the new application environment. Sr. UI/ Web Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA August 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with business analyst to understand the requirements to ensure correct UI modules been built to meet business requirements.  • Worked in developing dynamic robust UI screens using CSS, HTML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AngularJs, Bootstrap, Backbone, and jQuery.  • Worked in Modern UI methodologies to create multi screening pages with front end applications.  • Experience in Agile methodologies to create an updated client-side application.  • Designed and developed user-friendly web-based interfaces using JSP, HTML5, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, ExtJS and Custom Tags.  • Worked on SQL, Servlets using HTTP to provide updated client-side web application.  • Developed web pages using Responsive web applications, JSP, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components.  • Worked in RWD development with HTML, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AngularJs, AJAX and JSON.  • Used MVC architecture of Ext JS Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  • Worked on CSS preprocessor frameworks (SASS 3.4 & LESS 2.0).  • Implemented AJAX in web pages for accessing application data without refresh the whole pages for better user experience.  • Used JavaScript for validating client-side validations.  • Wrote Ember.js function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumers facing as well as internal application).  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Used CSS3.0 for styling and HTML 5.0 for Templates in Ext JS.  • Used Ember.js extensively for Dashboards (Ember-Table etc.).  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, AngularJs, Backbone.js and Bootstrap.  • Implemented Ext JS Data Grid, Charts, Forms and Layout Manager Components.  • Strong implementation in handling Ext JS Ajax Request and Response using Java Spring and JSON.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Prototyped UI designs using: Wireframes, Visio, PowerPoint, hand coded prototyped UI designs.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Unit test all the front-end AngularJS code using Karma.  • Used SVN as source repository and controlling versions of the code.  • Used Quality center to track defects.  • Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Involved with all stages of Software Development Life Cycle.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring, Web Services, JSP, ExtJs, jQuery, Java Script, AngularJs, Ext JS 4.0/5.0, Ember JS, AJAX, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, XSL, XSLT, SVN, Oracle, Eclipse, Agile. Java/J2EE Developer MindTree - IN March 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Implemented new functionalities in the existing application based on the new requirements.  • Created tables and SQL queries and procedures using PL/SQL required for the modules developed.  • Designed the application in layered approach like Presentation, Service, DAO, Utils and Test modules.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers.  • Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Participated in discussions with product analyst for Requirement Gathering and Design.  • Used Singleton, MVC, Factory Pattern and DAO design patterns.  • Implemented Web Services client to access the exposed web service.  • Created web pages using C# for the internal testing.  • Implemented REST messages for communication between web service client and service provider.  • Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  • Developed Restful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  • Used Spring IOC for dependency injection.  • REST is used to describe web service operations and expose Web Service to outside world.  • Spring Dependency Injection implemented for required objects.  • Developed JUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications (internal and third-party components using RESTFUL WEB SERVICES using Jersey.  • Developed the XML files, DTD's, and parsed them by using SAX parser for the TAF module.  • Implemented logger for debugging and testing purposes using Log4j.  • Designed and developed application based on Spring MVC design pattern.  • Used Spring validation and wrote validation rules.  • Automated the build and deployment process using ANT build script.  • Used ClearCase for versioning of data.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate (Spring + Hibernate integration).  • Used ClearQuest for issue tracking.  • Used Eclipse tool for application development.  • Worked with clients for issues and provided quick solutions.  Environment: JSP 2.3, Servlets 3.1, Weblogic8, Ant, XML Spy, Eclipse 3.3, Spring3.1, Web Services, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, Log4j, Oracle 10g, SQL Developer. Education Master's in Technology Management in Technology Management Southeast Missouri State University - Southeast, Missouri, US Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, Javascript, Bootstrap, Reactjs, Json, Svn, Xml, Xslt, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, Jdk, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Ajax, Tomcat Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, DOM, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, Angular2, Angular 4, jQuery, NodeJS, ReactJS  Languages: Java, C, C#, SQL, .NET  Java/J2EE: JDK, Java, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Structs, Spring.  Tools & IDE: Eclipse, Notepad++, Atom, Sublime, Visual Studio Code, Visual  Studio  Database: SQL Server, MySQL, SQL Developer.  Web/App Servers: Apache Tomcat, Grunt, Gulp, J Boss.  Version Control: SVN, CVS, Version Control, GitHub.  Browsers: IE, Firefox, Chrome, Safari  Operating Systems: Windows 8/7/2000/XP, Mac, Android