UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer Atlanta, GA ? Over 5 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Support, Implementation and testing of Web based and Client Server applications.  ? Experience in Full software development life cycle implementation including Business interaction, Requirement Analysis, Software Architecture, Design, Development, Testing and Documentation phases on Windows platforms.  ? Expertise on designing web pages using Responsive CSS Design, jQuery UI and Bootstrap.  ? Good working knowledge of object-oriented programming.  ? Expert knowledge of the UI design process and deliverables throughout the development lifecycle.  ? Extensively used the Angular.JS, Angular 2.0 and Angular 4.0, frameworks for single page application.  ? Expertise in programming with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Responsive Web design (RWD), JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2, Angular 4, React JS, AJAX, XML, and JSON.  ? Very Strong in developing applications using HTML, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, YUI, XML, Ajax. Experience applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event - driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML.  ? Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries (JQuery) and developing Rich Internet Applications RIA.  ? Good experience in JavaScript frameworks Angular JS, Backbone.js, JQuery especially AJAX driven web applications.  ? Experience in DOM (Document Object Model) as I used it in interacting with objects in HTML, XHTML and XML documents.  ? Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone.js, angular.js, Ext.js, Responsive design.  ? Experience in designing websites with W3C standards using HTML4/5, CSS2/3 to get best cross-browser user experience for long-term user retention and engagement.  ? Experience and full understanding of Software Development Life Cycle, Agile software development methodology. Solid ability to work on Agile.  ? Extensive experience working in an Agile development environment.  ? Experience in debugging and testing the existing code.  ? Good expertise in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers and data connectivity and data integration.  ? Expertise in server-side programming in CORE Java, Multithreading, Exception Handling and Collections.  ? Very good analytical capabilities and broad experience in understanding the business application and planning iterations.  ? An enthusiastic and project-oriented team leader/player with solid communication skills Motivation to take independent responsibility. Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and can learn new technologies very fast.  ? Worked on various platforms including Windows XP, Vista, 7 and UNIX.  ? Ability to learn and master new technologies and to deliver outputs in short deadlines with excellent communication and inter personnel skills  ? Experience of working with version control systems like Git.  ? Dynamic team player with outstanding communication and interpersonal skills.  ? Highly motivated to learn quickly new technologies and methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Atlanta, GA July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Agile development methodology with the help of JIRA, and actively participated in Scrum meetings.  ? Created components for UI pages and search pages using React for the current application. States for the components have been managed using Redux.  ? Developing Stores to maintain the application state, Reducers to modify the state and added dynamic dispatching action creators to dispatch the actions to state using Redux.  ? Develop various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  ? Used jQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations and to create the content on the fly depending on the user request by implementing AJAX features.  ? Implemented the communication of data between components using States and Props. Used Refs in accessing the DOM node created in render method.  ? Worked with running the application on Node Server by using Node.JS and deployed it to Jenkins in every sprint.  ? Involved in unit testing of various modules by generating the test cases using Jest & Enzyme. Perform authentication and authorization using Json Web Tokens (JWT)  ? Have worked on Gulp in the application for building the whole application workflow and creating a clean build to deploy.  ? Used React Router to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  ? Implemented many of new features of CSS3 in the application such as Flexbox, Pagination, User Interface, Object-fit and many other for responsive application.  ? Worked with features of HTML5 such as elements/tags, Canvas, Web worker, web forms and few other in the application.  ? Worked with SASS library by using features like mixins, nesting and few other in the stylings of the application.  ? Experienced in using different JavaScript based packages React libraries like React-bootstrap, Redux for complementary support to the web based application.  ? Using RESTful web services for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON data.  ? Used Git Flow for the version control. Used Git lab for accessing the repositories and maintaining the code.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React.js, Redux, Flex, Node.js, XML, JSON, AJAX, RESTful APIs. UI / Web Developer JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH February 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  ? Implemented Agile Methodologies SCRUM a light weight framework, UI SDE for managing and controlling iterative and incremental projects  ? Involved in web designing using HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and extensively used Table-less Design in CSS for positioning.  ? Implemented functionality using Angular4, Typescript and ES6.  ? Used Angular4 routing features to make the component independent.  ? Effectively used CSS3 features and created multiple columns, borders, backgrounds and used SASS to maintain the code with snippets and the available libraries.  ? Implemented Angular 4 services to communicate with Express.js on the server-side in-order to perform CRUD operations on database.  ? Used Angular4 Life Cycle Hooks though out the application for components.  ? Used @Input and @Output for passing data and triggering events across different components.  ? Created popup forms using Bootstrap version 3.0.0 Models, AngularJS Models and AngularJS Controllers.  ? Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller Which Isolate scopes perform operations.  ? Involved in the development of programming user interface design and front-end (HTML) for the Web application using HTML, Typescript & SCSS to the requirements of the client.  ? Involved in the development of HTML and Angular.js for client- side presentation and data validation on client side with in the forms.  ? Created HTML5 navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  ? Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  ? Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular and Ionic to make the views dynamic.  ? Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration. Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, CSS optimization, and ADA compliance support.  ? Increased developer productivity by using efficient programming methodologies and local development.    Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, NPM, Typescript, DOM, JSON, Angular 4, Ext.js, AJAX, SOAP, XML, GWT, Windows. UI Developer Capital One - Dallas, TX November 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Used NPM for installing required node modules and other published Angular NPM modules.  ? Angular 2/4 is of a Component Driven Architecture.  ? Working knowledge on Azure cloud IaaS and PaaS Services.  ? Worked Extensively with Angular CLI for creating components, Services, pipes, Directives.  ? Updated the application with new features of Angular 4.  ? Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form Validators.  ? Designed and developed the application using Angular 2/4 framework along with HTML5, CSS3, Type Script, Java Script, Bootstrap, Node.js, NPM, Mongo DB.  ? Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2/4 components for more responsive and less dependency.  ? Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript.  ? Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, web pack and grunt.  ? Hands on Experience on Angular 2/4 technology for one complete project in rebasing the UIof the application using the techniques in Angular 4.  ? Designed, developed, planned, and migrated servers, relational databases (RDBMS) and websites to Microsoft azure cloud.  ? Knowledge in configuring Cloud platform such as VMs, Azure AD, Web Apps, DB's, Cloud Services, etc.  ? Experienced on creating and managing Azure VM, VMware tools, Cloud Services, and Storages.  ? Experienced with deployments, maintenance and troubleshooting applications on Azure Cloud.  ? Creating and managing Azure Web-Apps and providing the access permission or Authorization to Microsoft Accounts.  ? Extensively Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Sprites, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Elements & Classes, and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  ? Involved in agile software methodologies using Test Driven Development.  ? Used JIRA to keep track of bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and Communication.    Environment: AngularJS, 2/4, Angular CLI, TypeScript, JavaScript, Node.js, NPM, Express.js, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, GIT, Web Storm, TDD, Jasmine, Karma, LESS, Azure Cloud Services. UI Developer CDS Global Inc - Omaha, NE July 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and Developed User Interactive UI of Web pages with the help of HTML5, CSS3, C, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX.  ? Involved in making the application Responsive using Bootstrap and used LESS pre-processor.  ? Implemented content pages using CSS Pre-processors like LESS.  ? Used REST client - POSTMAN to check the response of various API calls.  ? Experience with concepts of Directives, Data-Binding and Dependency Injection in Angular 2.  ? Used Angular JS built in directives, Controllers, Services and filters functionality to develop UI.  ? The Angular JavaScript (AngularJS) framework for building web applications is highly efficient to use with Restful services.  ? Modified all controllers and directives into Angular 2 components following Angular 2 best practices. Rebuilt an online catalogue with Angular 2.  ? Involved in writing Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript with Cross-browser testing (MSIE, Firefox, Chrome, Opera and Safari) and cross-platform (MAC, Windows 7/8, Firefox and IE)  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using Ajax, Json. Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using modular based architecture provided by Angular 2.  ? Used D3.js animation capabilities, which are built to enhance the data visualizations with transitions.  ? Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX.  ? Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services, used Mongo DB for database services.  ? Used NPM & bower as package manager and Gulp as task runner for automation and GIT for version control.  ? Used Node JS architectural concepts like event loop, call backs, and event emitters.  ? Used GIT as in for the version control and JIRA for defect tracking.  ? Involved in Agile Methodology process which includes bi-weekly sprint and daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress.    Environment: AngularJS/2, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, Bootstrap 3.0, Git, JIRA UI Developer Resource One IT Solutions March 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into user requirement specifications and functional requirement specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  ? Developed Ionic App using HTML/HTML5, CSS3, Angular6, 7 ionic3, 4.  ? Created front end applications using HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, Bootstrap, JavaScript.  ? Designed, Developed and deployed all SQLite Server instances, stored procedures, views, triggers and tables.  ? Involved in developing the UI for the app using Text Views, Buttons, Check boxes, Alert dialogs, Action-bar and spinners for various layouts.  ? Contributed in backend of the application that interacts with the database to form the JSON structure required for Restful JSON response  ? Contributed to application requirement analysis for achieving the specifications provided by the client.  ? Test and error logging on different versions and devices of Android and IOS.  ? Expertise in working with the Mobile technologies like Android, IOS, Windows, Mobile Angular UI, Phone gap/ionic, iPhone, iPad, Mobile UI, Silverlight, ActionScript.  ? Diagnosed and troubleshoot processing problems and applied solutions to increase company efficiency.  ? Responsible for the implementation of Web Design based on CSS3 HTML and Bootstrap Front-End Framework.  ? Design Mobile UI screens using CSS3, TypeScript and HTML5.  ? Worked on JIRA Tool for Bug Tracking System.  ? Used GIT for code push and pull and Bitbucket for repository.  ? Developed Angular6 and foundation-based UI Screens using HTML, CSS and Ionic framework.  ? Designed and Implemented Views and Layouts for User Interaction.  ? Developing dynamic web pages, applying appropriate styling or animations, form validations activities by utilizing JavaScript and JQuery libraries.  ? Provided Web Service programming creating new Service Facade interfaces and supported expanded capabilities of existing Web Services.    Environment: HTML4/5, XHTML, CSS3/4, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, Typescript, Ionic3, Angular 6, 7, jQuery, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap, JSON, Rest API, Grunt, Gulp, NPM, Jenkins, GIT, JIRA, Confluence, Jasmine, Karma. Education Bachelor's Skills BOOTSTRAP (6 years), HTML5 (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), jQuery (6 years), JSON (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, XML, XHTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Typescript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, ES6, Android, iOS, Windows    Other Technologies: Karma, Jasmine, Webpack, Grunt, Gulp, Bower, Protractor, Mocha, Agile methodologies, Jenkins, LESS, SASS.  JavaScript Libraries: React.js, Angular.js, Angular6/5/4/2, Polymer.js, Backbone.js, Node.js, D3.js, Express.js, Ionic.  IDE's and Tools: Eclipse IDE/3.X, HTTP web server, Apache Tomcat server 7.0.63, Sublime, VScode, Bracket.  Publishing Tools: Adobe PageMaker, MS Office  Wire Frame Tools: Adobe Illustrator CSS3 and Adobe Photoshop.  Debugging Tools: Firebug, Bugzilla, (internet explorer)  Database: PL/SQL (oracle), MySQL, MSSQL  Operating System: Windows NT4.0 XP/, LINUX, MAC OS X