NLP Bot Dialogue Developer NLP Bot Dialogue <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Alameda, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NLP Bot Dialogue Developer Asurion - San Mateo, CA April 2017 to Present Working in an agile team to build AVA (Asurion Virtual Assistant). Developing conversational flow structure and logic blocks with Javascript to create complex user-to-bot interactions. Restructured the monolithic dialog flow into modular and reusable components. Developed microservices using AWS services such as Lambda and API Gateway. Unit test prior to delivering the final product to the Quality Assurance team. Monitored application post-production release to identify and fix bugs. Contributed to the NLP models accuracy improvement by labeling production data. Used technical and analytical expertise to examine data and get insights to improve customer experience. Web Development Immersive General Assembly - San Francisco, CA November 2016 to March 2017 SF-Travelogue    Full Stack MEAN Application Application to view or add interesting places in San Francisco Neighborhoods. Worked in a two person team. built the server, designed database structure, created CRUD actions for models and implemented handlebars.    Technologies: JavaScript, handlebarsjs, jQuery, MongoDB, Materialize, Git, Heroku    GA-Hackathon    Full Stack Ruby on Rails Application Application to organize General Assembly Hackathons as a tool to help students learn new skills and push each other  to grow. Worked in four person team. Collaborated by adding front-end validations, designing the following pages: profile, idea, login and signup.    Technologies: JavaScript, Postgresql, Rails, Materialize, HTML, CSS Salon Manager Salon DNA - San Francisco, CA March 2010 to November 2016 Built and established company's reputation and product value through customer service and support. Implemented and managed a CRM system which was crucial to gather customer information in order to find business opportunities for market growth and to increase sales. Over 6 months, client retention was increased resulting in a 20% increase in revenue. Analyzed all issues related to sales, payroll, business and property taxes as well as applicable insurances, providing guidance to the owners managers when necessary. Education Computer Science City College of San Francisco - San Francisco, CA August 2015 to July 2018 Software Development General Assembly - San Francisco, CA November 2016 to March 2017 Skills Git, Javascript, Mongoose, Node.js, OOP, Ruby, Rails, Mongodb, Postgresql, Jira, Java, jquery, Ajax, Rest, HTML, AWS Links http://github.com/greicens http://greicesilva.tech/ Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS    Javascript Java Ruby Ajax jQuery Node.js Express OOP  Rails Mongoose MongoDB Postgresql Git AWS Rest API's Jira