Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Web Developer - Tiktaalik Design Atlanta, GA Ambitious, self-taught, freelance full stack web developer and designer specializing in front-end development and design. Seeking a full-time position with a digital design/development agency or enterprise team. Curious lifelong learner, endlessly fascinated by the wonders and complexities of sophisticated yet minimalist design and their manifestation in web applications. Ready to expand, refine, and grow my craft in a small team environment, collaborating with designers, artists, and developers to deliver highly refined, polished full stack web apps. Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Tiktaalik Design - Atlanta, GA 2018 to Present • Design, deploy, and maintain fully responsive websites with both the MERN stack and the Wordpress ecosystem. Developing both client and server applications.  • Configure and integrate plug-ins, themes, and APIs.  • Implement each step in the project: client engagement, wire-frames & mock-ups/prototypes, design/styling, typography, coding, photo and graphics editing, and content/copy.   • Optimize performance thru analysis tools (GT Metrix, Google Speed Insights, and Google Analytics), script deferment, caching, minification, and image compression.  • Troubleshoot and debug issues via browser Developer Tools server-side debugging. Manage SEO, hosting, domains, and site maintenance/content updates.  Loan Monitoring Team Lead | Officer Bank OZK - Atlanta, GA 2012 to Present • Lead a small team (3 direct reports) in tracking, analyzing, and reporting on commercial loan portfolio.   • Recently chaired a successful cross-functional data collection and review effort. Coordinated tightly with internal software developers to improve the UI and UX of internal apps. Directly managed 12 team leads and over 120 colleagues, spanning multiple departments and in close partnership with senior leaders.   • Lead organizational efforts to update work-flow software.  • Successfully incorporated multiple acquired portfolios into organization. Web Development Intern Deevy Creative - Athens, GA 2017 to 2018 • Designed, developed, and maintained fully responsive landing pages/client sites within the Wordpress ecosystem. Leveraged libraries and plug-ins, including Divi. Integrated APIs.   • Translated projects from wire-frames to functioning sites by implementing sound design principles, utilizing graphic design tools such as Photoshop and Affinity Designer, developing content and markup with HTML5 and CSS3, managing content via CMS, and delivering functionality with Javascript and JS libraries.   • Utilized version control with Git. Deployed with Pantheon Multi-Dev Environment and Cloud Hosting, as well as other hosting services via both Git and FTP.  Education Full Stack Web Development Georgia Institute of Technology-Main Campus - Atlanta, GA 2019 Bachelor of Business Administration University of Georgia - Athens, GA 2012 Skills Prototyping (3 years), Wordpress (3 years), Graphic design, Docker, Javascript, Bootstrap, Mongoose, Content Management Systems (3 years), MongoDB, HTML 5, Model View Controller Architecture, User Interface Design, Git, User Experience Design, JQuery, FTP, Front End, Node, CSS3, React, User Interface, Graphic Design, Leadership, Project Management, Process Improvement, Policy Development, Front-End, HTML5, UI Links http://TIKTAALIKDESIGN.COM https://github.com/jrobs87 Certifications/Licenses Full Stack Web Developer August 2019 to Present