UI Angular Developer UI Angular <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Angular Developer - Motion Industries Birmingham, AL • 7+ years of extensive experience in IT industry as a Front End UI Developer with Web based applications in various domains.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5, Java Script, jQuery and Flash.  • Hands on Experience in developing single-page applications (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Angular JS 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 backbone.js, ext.js, React JS,underscore.js and bootstrap.  • Experience on various Charting/UI tools likeJQplot, High Charts, Google API, JQuery UI, Bootstrap and PrimeNG.  • Hands on experience in breaking up layered PSD into HTML using CSS.  • Experience in working with Angular 2.0 with extensive knowledge on the latest ECMA6 features and Best Practices  • Strong exposure to Adobe tools - Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator and Flash.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions compatibility and SEO/ web standards.  • Coordinating with other development teams, Business analysts, product owners, QA team and DevOps.  • Worked on Selenium for automation testing and knowledge on testing frameworks like Jasmine, Mocha.  • Strong problem solving ability and analytical skills and able to integrate quickly into team and work independently toward team goals.  • Experience with Sketch, InVision, and Balsamiq for designing prototypes.  • Notable skill-set with JavaScript UI frameworks such as Angular2, ReactJS (preferred), EmberJS, VueJS, ExtJS, etc.  • Experience in visualization, creating visual designs, Product Logos, developing high quality of work, maintaining team, and design reviews, handling whole project through its life cycle.  • Experience in system analysis, design, workflow architecture, development, testing and maintenance of web based applications.  • Worked extensively in Agile Development process.  • Worked on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements gathering through client interaction, Design, Documentation, Development, Integration, Testing, Configuration and Production Support.  • Experience in creating training documentation as well as training employees (Engineers, Scientists and IT professionals).  • Excellent skills in building elegant professional websites while adhering to W3C standards. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Angular Developer Motion Industries - Birmingham, AL September 2018 to Present Description: Motion Industries is an industrial parts distributor for products including bearings, mechanical power transmission, electrical and industrial automation, hydraulic and pneumatics, process pumps, hydraulic and industrial hose and industrial/safety supplies. It also provides fabrication and repair services. As of 2017, Motion Industries had annual sales of $4.96 billion and 300,000 customers. Motion Industries placed fourth on Industrial Distribution's 2018 "Big 50" list of Industrial distributors.    Responsibilities:  • Build and designed a user-interactive webpages using Angular7, ChartJS, MomentJS framework and using Web API's to receive and pass data to back-end.  • Responsible to write neat and clean code for reusable Typescript component.  • Involved in working extremely with using angular libraries like ngx-file-drop, ng-circle etc, in this angular application development.  • All the web pages in this application can change the language from English to François or Española, worked with TranslateService, LangChangeEvent to change the language  • Worked extremely on ChartJS to show the visual progress of customer by Line, Bar and Doughnut charts.  • This is a responsive web application, compatible of all the three views (Desktop, Tab and Mobile) so was responsible to write a clean code from scratch which support all the three views.  • As this is a responsive web application, worked extremely with Bootstrap 4 to get all the responsive design.  • Worked on the Handling Forms of angular 7 to validate the input at UI level rather than validating the data at backend which is easy and saves time.  • Used Bootstrap components of Angular-UI like Carousel, Collapse, Dropdown, pagination and Tabs in the member and provider's module to select different plans, products and services.  • Worked with SCSS Background, Layouts, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and SCSS behaviors in SCSS.  • Used RESTFUL web services for Angular7 using Observable and Subscription.  • Wrote code to fetch data from angular services using typescript to get JSON response.  • Responsible for analyzing the JSON response to update DOM.  • Created browser compatibility web pages using HTML5, SCSS and Angular 7.  • Worked with Angular directives and also created customized directives for the application.  • Extremely used Font Awesome icons and social logos on the web pages.  • Worked on the latest Typescript 3.3 version to write all the component level logics and also worked with the MomentJS.  • Worked on Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Gained experiences working with resolver services to pass dynamic data in route when routing.  • Used Jasmine framework to write Unit test cases for the web module. Also, used different developer tools respective to the browser to debug the code.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle using TeamForge.  • Participate with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.    Environment: Angular7, Angular 6, Typescript, HTML5, SCSS, AJAX, JSON, SASS, Bootstrap 4, Web storm, SQL Server, Web services, Jasmine, Karma, Unit Test, GIT, Agile,TeamForge, MyEclipse, VSCode, CodeMix. Sr. UI Developer Bridgestone - Nashville, TN June 2017 to August 2018 Description: Bridgestone Corporation is a multinational auto and truck parts manufacturer founded in 1931 by Shojiro Ishibashi in the city of Kurume, Fukuoka, Japan. The name Bridgestone comes from a calque translation and transposition of ishibashi, meaning "stone bridge" in Japanese. The website provides a strong search function by which customers can find products, coupons, and related articles.    Responsibilities:  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 4.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 4.  • Involved in writing the front-end code for the application using Angular 4.  • Implemented Angular 4 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  • Implementing presentation layer using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and Angular6.  • Extensively used Angular 4 forms like Template Driven forms and Reactive forms (Dynamic Forms) to perform form validations both on server and client side.  • Optimized the performance of application using Angular 4 Lazy Loading and Ahead of Time Compilation.  • Designed and developed a web application by using Angular 4 as front-end and using Web API to receive and pass data to back-end.  • Worked on developing the components using Angular 2 needed for the application from the scratch and customizing from various Angular related libraries to meet the application's functionality.  • Moved existing VueJS controllers and services to VueJS components for more responsive and less dependency  • Created browser compatibility web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle using JIRA.  • Responsible for Generating SASS files and converting them into CSS.  • Developed a single page application using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and Angular6.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY, AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Used Jasmine framework to write Unit test cases for the web module. Also, used different developer tools respective to the browser to debug the code.  • Worked heavily on CSS3 and LESS layout for DOM manipulation.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries bootstrap, AngularJS, AJAX, VueJS for form validation and other interactive features  • Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using JUnit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using Selenium.  • Created prototype before development based on static and approved design documents and wireframes.  • Worked on Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Used Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator to create their statistical concepts.  • Created stored procedure using nodes method to load XML file data into SQL server tables.    Environment:Angular4, Angular 2, RWD, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, XML, AJAX, JSON, SASS, LESS, Bootstrap, Web storm, Angular6, SQL Server, Web services, Selenium, VueJS, VSTS, Jasmine, Karma, Unit Test, GIT, Agile, Photoshop CS6, Illustrator CS6, Jira. Sr. UI/UX Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX January 2016 to May 2017 Description: This project is an internal application for the Verizon call center. Call Center employees use this application to help customer to pay their bill and aware them about their account behavior which helps customers to get new offers. Employees can see the previous records and give suggestions to the customers about their billing details.    Responsibilities:  • Build user-interactive webpages using Angular2, Angular4 ChartJS, and PrimeNG& VZRF framework.  • Participate in meetings with the end-clients to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them with the help of HTML5, CSS3 and Angular2, Angular4.  • Implemented functionality using Angular2, Angular4, Typescript and ES6.  • Used Angular2routing features to make the component independent.  • Used Angular2, Angular4 Life Cycle Hooks though out the application for components.  • Implement reactive Angular components using Ngrx (Redux).  • Use Ngrx/store, Ngrx/effects to ensure component interaction through two-way data binding.  • Worked with various DevOps tools Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software GIT and SVN.  • Analyze the response of JSON in order to update DOM.  • Use RESTFUL web services for Angular2 using Observable and Subscription.  • Design and prototype future releases using Front-End (HTML5, JavaScriptjQuery, Angular, VueJS  • Created and maintain fully automated CI/CD pipelines for code deployment using Web Deploy, PowerShell, leveraging configuration management, and DevOps processes using VSTS  • Worked on designing behavioral target states and worked on CSS Preprocessors like SASS.  • Develop for front-end UI design using PrimeNG Overlay, Panel and Growl Messages.  • Develop data insertion forms and validated them using Angular 2, reactive form feature. Use CSSalong with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Involved in writing end to end test suites using Jasmine frame work and Protractor tool based on top of Selenium server.  • Design table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards.  • Implement Unit testing using Karma and Jasmine.  • Use version controls to update and commit codes using Accurev & GIT.  • Implemented end to end test cases for components using Protractor.  • Participate in testing and debugging new programs using Developer tools.  • Participate with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Use Agile Scrum process with Jira for Sprint Planning.  • Working with off-shore teams in daily basis to understand the requirement.    Environment:Angular2, Angular4, Angular Material 2, Bootstrap, VZRF Framework, PrimrNG, Ngrx, PrimeNG, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, TypeScript, ES6, JSON, DevOps, Selenium, VSTS, VueJS, JQuery, Agile, SASS, LESS, AJAX, GIT, Accurev, Jasmine, Protractor. Sr. UI Developer Seniorlink - Boston, MA December 2014 to December 2015 Seniorlink is creating a solution that honors family and the desire to age at home. The web application enables customers and employees across states to enroll to different health insurance plans which is developed and maintained at Seniorlink. The project involved in upgrading the UI for company website in the members and providers module to provide user friendly experience to the customers supporting products, policy, enrolment, billing, claims & accounts management.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, jQuery and Ajax.  • Contributed for development of Wireframes using Axure.  • Involved in implementing the application using AngularJS MVC architecture.  • Created AngularJS controllers, factories, filters, routers and services in registration module for making it a Single page Application  • Used AngularJS http service for Consuming RESTful Services  • Used Bootstrap components of Angular-UI like Carousel, Collapse, Dropdown, and Tabs in the member's and provider's module to select different plans, products and services.  • Implemented for multiple domains and topics using Bootstrap themes and a CSS "skin" for branding  • Experience using CSS & SASS pre-compiler  • Consumed RESTful web services using AJAX for providing users with insurance plans based on information like zip code and state.  • Developed web front end interfaces using HTML/HTML 5, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, XHTML, jQuery, Java, AJAX, JSON, Angular, NodeJS, BackboneJS, VueJS,  • Created various re-usable Polymer components using polymer library.  • Used D3.js to display most opted Health insurance plans using a pie chart.  • Created JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Developed multiple AngularJS controllers and configured routers using ng-route provider  • Used Ajax and jQuery to update the parts of the Policy review web pages.  • Used jQuery Validation plugin to validate various forms and Autocomplete plugin to implement the search criteria based on business requirements.  • Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Built backend REST API with Node.js, Express.js.  • Worked with jQuery UI for effects and widgets like select menu, tabs and progress bar to show different health care plans.  • Redesigned the web page layouts to make them responsive and cross-browser compatible using CSS Bootstrap  • Node.js to pull back customer information from the server.  • Used SOAP Technology for exchanging the XML application using HTTP  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols  • Used Modernizer to resolved cross-browser issues and web site usability issues.  • Used Git as version control software.  • Performed test cases using Jasmine and Qunit  • Project developed in Scrum development mode.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, VueJS, D3.js, Node.js, Backone.js, XML, SOAP, AJAX, JSON, Git, Scrum, Axure, SQL. Web/UI Developer Virtusa Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to September 2014 Virtusa is a leading global provider of digital media and commerce solutions to small and Medium Businesses (SMBs) and local marketing aggregators. Implemented content managing on the external web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and XML.    Responsibilities:  • Developing the dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript and involved in Java coding for developing the Back-end of the application  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • Worked with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Used CSS Image Sprites to reduce load time of web page by decreasing the number of images, which requires less number of server requests.  • Written and implemented CSS throughout the site, both as in-line and imported files  • Used W3C CSS Validator to check the markup validity  • Implemented form validations across the site using jQuery and JavaScript  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application  • Implemented applications in JavaScript and MySQL  • Worked on jQuery extensively for various user interactions features and to achieve uniformity through all the web pages  • Extensively used JavaScript to make the web page more interactive  • Used advanced JavaScript concepts to validate input fields using regular expression  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON  • Integrated with back end code for highly interactive AJAX based applications  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation  • Worked on developing a REST Web Service for the application  • Implemented XML parsers such as DOM.  • Performed optimization of SQL Queries and Store Procedures by normalizing tables.  • Experienced in finding leaks and bugs in application using Jasmine-testing framework.  • Performed cross-browser testing and ensured websites displays well across all popular browsers  • Used SVN as the version control tool    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSP, OOPS, Eclipse, SQL. Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communication in Electronics and Communication Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Western Illinois University - Chicago, IL Skills C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, JSON, OBJECT ORIENTED, OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING, AJAX, CSS, WEB DESIGN, ANGULARJS, HTML5, DATABASE, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, ECLIPSE, Angular, Front-End, React, UI, Front End Links https://www.testdome.com/cert/2e0b35edf1174b6b93c4c408733c36cd