QUALITY ASSURANCE ANALYST QUALITY ASSURANCE ANALYST QUALITY ASSURANCE ANALYST - COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS, IRVING TX USA Grapevine, TX Result-oriented IT professional with ~5 years of experience in the areas of QA Testing, Web Development, Business Analysis. Adapt and execute in a dynamic environment both as a team player and individual contributor.    • 3+ years of experience in Manual Testing including Backend testing, Cross-browser testing, Regression testing, mobile application testing and web based functional testing.  • Experienced in handling Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC), Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies  • Expertise in writing, maintaining and executing Test Strategies, Test plans, Test Cases, Test Results and generating software defect reports.  • Strong analytical, troubleshooting and debugging skills understanding the business requirements, business rules/processes, and detailed design of the application.  • Experience in dealing with Clients and End users at various stages of QA life cycle.  • 1+ years of experience in Web / software development / GUI  • Process Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis/Design and PHP development.  • Proficient in query writing using SQL/MySQL/Oracle and expert in coding using Core Java.  • Working experience using Frameworks (Zend, Plus Net custom).  • Hands on post development monitoring, testing, trouble shooting.  • Skilled in developing requirements specifications, user documentation etc.  • SKILL SETS / TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY:  • SQA Testing & Methodologies • Regression & Negative Testing • UI & Compatibility Testing  • Test Plans, Cases & Processes • Scripting & Documentation • RCA / Trouble Shooting  • PHP (including OOP concept) • Java, J2EE, C • Zend Frame Work  • Java Script • HTML, UML, CSS • Word Press  • Angular JS • SQL / MYSQL • Oracle / SAP  • Advanced Microsoft Excel • Microsoft Power Point • Outlook    Strong team player with problem solving skills and learning new technologies with effective Communication and Presentation skills. Work Experience QUALITY ASSURANCE ANALYST COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS, IRVING TX USA - Irving, TX April 2018 to Present Working for nations leading Pharmacies Benefit Management (PBM) Client for various Health Insurance Companies.  Responsibilities  • Testing of different Health Insurance plans for several Health Insurance companies.  • Performed Claim Testing/Analysis for Formulary.  • Performed Claim Testing for different Utilization Management edits.  • Validate Claim Adjudication  • Perform PBM User Acceptance Testing  • Perform RX claims testing in AS/400 box  • Good knowledge and experience in Commercial and Medicaid Line of Businesses.  • Experience in Defect Management using Sales Force.  • Perform Root Cause Analysis tools such as fish bone analysis, pareto chart to identify & reduce defects  • Perform data analysis to identify business process improvement and provide insights to drive efficiency.  • Coach new hires on PBM testing activities  • Involved in Team Management activities like allocation of work, project status, team status etc.  • Engage in client reviews on test results, data quality improvement, process improvement etc.  • Following process flows have been implemented:  1. Test Requirement and Test Planning /  2. Test Environment set up and Test Design  3. Test Execution and Defect Tracking  4. Test Reports and Acceptance.  Environment / Technologies: Easy Test, Easy Query, Sales Force, MS Excel using advanced tools/functions such as Pivot tables, V Lookup, HLookup, nested functions etc. FREELANCE TESTER APPLAUSE November 2015 to March 2018 Freelance tester for an online testing platform. Performed various kinds of desktop, web, mobile applications etc., with increased quality. Challenging & dynamic environment that requires self-learning and adaptability to various tools.    • Worked in Web exploratory testing, iOS testing and Android based Mobile device/software testing.  • Write Test Cases, perform Usability testing and Cross browser testing.  • GUI review and user acceptance testing to improve design & ease of use for various CRM systems of several clients of Applause in the areas of marketing, customer service / support, customer surveys etc.  • Deliver results in a compressed time-line and interact with global co-freelance testers  Environment / Technologies: Apple iOS, Android, Amazon Fire, Web Applications, Smart Devices - Apple TV, Google Chromecast, Smart TV, Roku TV, Fire TV WEB DEVELOPER LAMPROS LABS - Cincinnati, OH February 2016 to May 2016 Engaged in several projects for clients of Lampros Labs  • Develop & Design websites / applications for health care and industrial small businesses.  • Created Email Marketing newsletters using Mail Chimp.  Environment / Technologies used: Angular JS, Word Press, PHP, HTML, CSS, Mail Chimp etc. WEB DEVELOPER QBURST TECHNOLOGIES - IN 2007 to 2008 Responsible for development web-based end to end applications for Plus Net, a major ISP company in the UK. Key team member for two major projects for the client.  1. "Partner" - End to End application that handles right from Order Placement, Procurement, Billing, Invoicing and manage customer database for Plus Net.  2. "Meeting Manager" - a web-based collaboration tool designed based on MVC paradigm. The software assists in managing meetings and holidays, which are represented as events. Events can be exported as event list using an iCal export.  • Applied PHP & MySQL skills in developing the software as part of a 10 member team.  • Performed software testing and provided feedback to the team members  • Interacted with the customer to understand the needs and made necessary changes  • Recognized by the client & team as a lead programmer with excellent troubleshooting capabilities.  • Involved right from project conceptualization, development, testing and implementation.  Environment / Technologies used: PHP, Java, MySQL, HTML and CSS. Implemented MVC concept. SOFTWARE PROGRAMMER CBK INFOTECH PVT LTD 2006 to 2007 Key Associate in developing & testing a project "Video over IP" (Java based application)  Complete VoIP as well as Multimedia Streaming mechanism for audio and video communication for Video on Demand and MBone Application by Implementation of RTP / RTSP and SIP.  • Developed a Java based collaboration tool "Discussion Forum". A fully integrated online meeting tool with several utilities for administrator, moderators and attendees. Multiple meetings / discussions can be conducted at the same time by creating different categories to streamline the discussion and limit the queries to the concerned category.  Environment / Technologies used: Oracle & Java Education Bachelor's in Technology Engineering in Computer Science Kannur University - Kannur, KERALA, IN