Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer ? Software Developer with a DevOps mentality and full-stack experience  ? Develops software with a passion for clarity and simplicity in design  ? Full stack development and maintenance experience; development from start to finish includes:  o DNS,  o Server Provisioning(AWS EC2),  o OS(Ubuntu~Linux),  o Scripting(Bash),  o Routing(NGINX),  o Databases  * Relational - T-SQL, MySQL, SQLite  * NoSQL - MongoDB, RethinkDB  o Containerization(Docker),  o Applications(C#, .Net, JS, JS(React), Node)  ? Experience working with Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and Protected Health Information (PHI)  ? Received the Army Achievement Medal during military service Work Experience Software Developer QCI - Des Moines, IA June 2019 to Present ITA Group  ? Created multiple containerization POCs for various existing applications with Docker  ? Generated client-side code and models using Swagger (OpenAPI ) to automate creating network requests to a REST Api. Integrated into existing application as a Nuget package. Software Developer QCI - Des Moines, IA February 2019 to May 2019 Iowa DHS     Developed application architecture for RIMS project based upon standards of department and modern web  development practices. .Net Core, Knockout JS, NPM, Babel, and Webpack  ? Demonstrated usage of both Git and TFVC source control to illustrate distributed(Git) versus centralized(TFVC)  source control and how to migrate from TFVC to Git Software Developer The Stelter Company - Des Moines, IA May 2017 to December 2018 Worked on phased long-term project to sunset existing software architecture and transition to AWS  ? Identified business problems related to technology, researched and enacted solutions best situated for the circumstances in Full-stack/DevOps environment  ? Deployed and maintained multiple servers running Ubuntu (Linux) on AWS EC2  ? Used NGINX as a reverse proxy to allow for multiple applications running on server and to utilize HTTP 2 ability  to multiplex requests from same domain  ? Set up automated SSL certification process for domains using Certbot and LE (Lets Encrypt) with NGINX plugin  ? Used Docker to containerize each application to optimize server resource usage and create version control for application deployments  Collaborated with contract developer to modernize application Gift Illustrator creating an SPA; focusing on accessibility, enhanced functionality and simplified design  ? Link: calculator.giftillustrator.com/default  ? Application architecture used CRA (Create React App) for front-end with a Grails framework, Groovy language  back-end, Rest API to communicate between and a MySQL database  ? Code split front-end SPA to decrease load time and time to interactive  ? Updated back-end code and framework to Java 8  ? Removed back-end WAR packaging and Tomcat dependency by utilizing multi stage Docker build compiling  application using JDK in one stage and pipe resulting .jar file to run in JRE in second stage  Modified and wrote code to customize CMS system in C# and JS throughout employment  ? Refactored large swaths of code in C# removing unused commented out code, redundant dependencies and functions  ? In C# re-implemented server-side cache to properly invalidate cache upon backing file changes  ? Wrote client-side Rest API in JS to talk to CMS Rest API to automate custom, large scale actions not available in CMS UI Web Developer Stelter - Des Moines, IA November 2016 to April 2017 Developed websites based upon mock ups.  ? Re-worked global JS files to avoid global namespace collision, ensure order of execution for both function calls  and event handlers, remove unused code, and decrease load time for all websites  ? Wrote POC using Babel to write modern JS for global JS files and convert them back to compatible code for legacy browsers such as IE11. Project ended up replacing global files entirely and made maintenance easier  ? Showcased the benefits of Git and GitHub in tracking code changes to templates and other reused code  throughout site builds.  ? Rotated on weekly maintenance tasks. IT Application Analyst I Principal Financial Group - Des Moines, IA October 2015 to August 2016 Maintenance of existing applications and databases using mainly VB6, SQL, and C#.  ? Updated older applications to modern web architecture. Including a mixture of .NET MVC, Web API, and C# for back-end while using JavaScript with assorted libraries for front end. Sergeant (E-5) Army National Guard, Iowa September 2015 to August 2016 Specialist HHC March 2010 to September 2015 Acquired Secret Security Clearance  ? Investigated data integrity across multiple military database systems at battalion and brigade level (RCAS, DEERS, SIDPRS)  ? Procured, handled, and maintained Personally Identifiable Info (PII) and Protected Health Info (PHI) Student Systems Administrator University of Iowa Roy J. and Lucille A. Carver College of Medicine - Iowa City, IA August 2013 to July 2015 ? Worked at Predict-HD under the University of Iowa at an office performing data analysis on a research study  about Huntington's Disease.  ? Performed general IT work. Resetting passwords, software installation and updates, data entry, backing up data, remote desktop login, and coordinating with sites. Education B.A. in Computer Science University of Iowa - Iowa City, IA Liberal Arts and Sciences, General Studies and Humanities Kirkwood Community College - Cedar Rapids, IA Skills .NET, C#, DOCKER, JAVASCRIPT, MYSQL