React Developer - Remote React <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Remote Front Web Engineer Indianapolis, IN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience React Developer - Remote Ouedkniss - Agiers April 2018 to Present • Developing new user-facing features for E-commerce website using React.js  • Building reusable components and front-end libraries for future use  • Translating designs and wireframes into high quality code  • Optimizing components for maximum performance across a vast array of web-capable devices and browsers  • Build a single page web that communicate with backend via RESTful API Front End Web Developer Freelance - Indianapolis, IN December 2017 to December 2018 • Consulted with customers to gather requirements and discuss design choices.  • Developed designs to meet specific requirements such as quick-loading sites with particular layouts.  • Produced websites compatible with multiple browsers.  • Designed and updated layouts to meet usability and performance requirements.  • Implemented Google Campaigns and SEO for various types of websites.  • Developed landing pages, dashboards and online applications using Html, CSS and Javascript.  • Optimized web assets for speed and performance. Full Stack Web Developer RICH INT December 2014 to December 2017 • Developed, coded and updated sites for clients.  • Took concepts and produced design mockups and prototypes to strengthen designs, enhance user experiences and improve site interactions.  • Used programming capabilities in PHP, SQL and JavaScript and other libraries as needed.  • Reviewed code to validate structures, assess security and verify browser, device and operating system compatibility.  • Tested websites and performed troubleshooting prior to deployment.  • Implemented Google Campaigns and SEO for various types of websites.  • Collected, defined and translated user requirements into project designs and implementation plans. Lieutenant Project Engineer MDN - Algiers, DZ September 2009 to August 2013 http://www.mdn.dz/ Algiers, Algeria    • Provide successful leadership on numerous Engineering system projects and deployment projects.  • Ensure control equipment availability to maximize production.  • Perform line and grade work for building layout and control as required.  • Maintenance of contract documents and electronic web based documents for field operations.  • Review work progress reports.  • Review and stamp contract drawings, specifications and shop drawings to ensure proper coordination and installation of control systems.  • Report daily the progress of work to the higher commandment.  • Negotiate technical suppliers' contracts with overseas partners.  • Delegate tasks and responsibilities to appropriate personnel.  • Provide personnel on-site training for deployed equipment.  • Coordinate and work closely with team members to implement network solution design.  • Manage the brigade in the absence of the superior.  • Prepare training and presentations for the new acquired equipment.  • Review work progress reports.    • Report daily the progress of work to the higher commandment.  • Negotiate technical suppliers' contracts with overseas partners.  • Delegate tasks and responsibilities to appropriate personnel  • Write technical documentation for the radar simulator.  • Debug and test software.  • Troubleshoot and test hardware. Education Bachelor's in Electrical engineering National Polytechnic College - Algiers September 2003 to September 2009 Skills Javascript, PHP, HTML 5, CSS3, JQuery, MySQL, React, Mongodb, AWS, Wordpress, Front End, Bootstrap, HTML