Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Frederickson, WA Self-motivated web developer with a high level of experience working on multiple projects. Passionate and hardworking with a penchant for meeting deadlines. I work for two other companies performing the same duties you are requiring and would love the opportunity to learn more about the web developer role. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Alex Michael Holden, LLC - Seattle, WA February 2019 to Present • Promoted brand identity by creating company logos and delivering an attractive, user-friendly and unique website.  • Helped manage projects and delegate tasks.  • Customization of ecommerce, APIs, plug-ins, etc.  • Created the site layout and the user interface using HTML/CSS best practices.  • Implemented website into hosting account.  • Developed concepts, target audience, requirements, deadlines and budgets.  • Created wireframe and UI spec documentation  • Communicated neutrally, empathically and comfortably with team members, clients and customers.  • Identified and resolved issues and defects, including browser compatibility issues.  • Maintained and supported Apple Macintosh and Windows PC for end users.  • Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement in a fast-paced environment.  • Implemented Google Campaigns and SEO for various types of websites.  • Oversaw troubleshooting of technical issues to solve problems within a reasonable time frame.  • Established milestones for projects and ensured that all team members were well-prepared so that deadlines were met. Owner HLDesign Studio, LLC - Tacoma, WA August 2009 to Present • Promoted brand identity by creating company logos and delivering an attractive, user-friendly and unique website.  • Helped manage projects and delegate tasks.  • Customization of e-commerce, APIs, plug-ins, etc.  • Created the site layout and the user interface using HTML/CSS best practices.  • Implemented website into hosting account.  • Developed concepts, target audience, requirements, deadlines and budgets.  • Created wireframe and UI spec documentation  • Communicated neutrally, empathically and comfortably with team members, clients and customers.  • UI/UX Design  • Branding/Marketing  • Graphic Design  • Identified and resolved issues and defects, including browser compatibility issues.  • Maintained and supported Apple Macintosh and Windows PC for end users.  • Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement in a fast-paced environment.  • Implemented Google Campaigns and SEO for various types of websites.  • Oversaw troubleshooting of technical issues to solve problems within a reasonable time frame.  • Established milestones for projects and ensured that all team members were well-prepared so that deadlines were met. Web Developer Atomic Revenue - St. Louis, MO Present • Optimized web assets for speed and performance  • Strengthened the company brand by creating a distinctive website.  • Oversaw troubleshooting and technical uses and solved.  • Provided solutions by analyzing requirements and designing, developing and implementing software applications for multiple websites.  • Implemented website into hosting account.  • Maintained, troubleshoot and updated websites as needed.  • UI/UX Design  • Graphic Design work  • Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement  • Created Designs in CMS environment Education High school or equivalent in High School Diploma Bethel High School - Spanaway, WA September 2002 to June 2005 Skills Javascript, PHP, Angular, Wordpress, APIs, Web Development (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Adobe (10+ years), HTML5, Jquery, CSS, Angularjs, Front End, Bootstrap, NET, HTML, C# Certifications/Licenses Google Analytics September 2017 to Present