Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - New Wave Industries, Inc Plantsville, CT A challenging position in Computer Science field, where detail-oriented attitude and  creativity will be valuable. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer New Wave Industries, Inc - Newington, CT January 2013 to Present Designed and developed back-end and front-end of a universal eCommerce  solution in PHP/Zend /MySQL/AngularJS/SCSS.  ? Integrated with Amazon to synchronize products and inventory between Amazon Seller Central and local online store.  ? Integrated application with payment processors.  ? Integrated shipping APIs to calculate rates and print labels  (USPS/Endicia/UPS/FedEx).  • Designed and helped to develop an event ticketing system.  ? Created RESTful APIs for remote access points to validate tickets.  • Helped design and develop a feature-rich restaurant food ordering system built  on Zend 3 MVC framework.  ? Designed database schema capable of providing advanced functionality  desired by customer.  • Tweaked existing stored procedures to improve performance.  • Updated UI of existing web applications to current web standards.  • Improved UX and optimized web applications.  • Maintained existing applications (ASP.NET, SQL Server, AngularJS, PHP, WordPress). Applications/ Web Developer Visual Technologies, Inc - Hartford, CT September 2008 to January 2013 Developed enhancements to a pharmaceutical company's Intellectual Property  System (IP Center). The project implemented a collection of web based tools that  will assist attorneys and supporting personnel with Intellectual Property matters.  (.NET, SQL Server)  ? Implemented database structures to support the application.  ? Developed a number of reports in Excel and Adobe PDF formats.  ? Developed a series of batch jobs to automate certain processes and synchronize local application data with authoritative sources.  • Developed components of the Task Management System, an application that  was developed to support a client's initiative to outsource services to low cost  providers. The application uses ASP.NET, VB.NET and SQL Server.  • Developed and maintained corporate presence websites using ASP.NET, VB.NET/  C#, and SharePoint.    Maciej B?c?awski Web Developer / Designer ITema Inc - New London, CT November 2007 to June 2008 Developed front-end and back-end components of a system where real estate  agents would buy or get ad-supported DIY websites with property feeds coming from Trulia.  • Developed web applications using PHP/MODx CMS, MySQL, XHTML, CSS,  JavaScript/Mootools.  • Designed cross-browser compatible websites and custom themes using table- less layout techniques.  • Integrated various open-source applications (WordPress, SugarCRM, Zimbra)  with in-house web applications. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Central Connecticut State University - New Britain, CT May 2007 Skills Mysql, Sql, Css, C#, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Angularjs, Html5, Mvc, Linux, T-sql, Java, jquery, Photoshop, HTML, XML, Sql Server Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Computer Skills  Programming Languages/Technologies  • JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, Bootstrap, CSS, SCSS, HTML5, C, C#, Java, PHP,  Zend Framework, MVC, T-SQL, MySQL, Git, RESTful APIs    Software  • VisualStudio, IntelliJ, PhpStorm, Photoshop    Operating Systems  • Windows  • Linux