Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - State of Wyoming Cheyenne, WY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer State of Wyoming May 2012 to Present • Develop and maintain ASP.NET MVC websites and applications    • Develop ASP.NET applications that collect user input and insert into SQL Server  databases Web Designer Self-Employed January 2004 to Present • Design and develop custom websites based on client requirements and budget.    • Great skills at determining client need and how to best implement requirements. Web Developer Advanced Media Services June 2011 to May 2012 • Develop websites from Photoshop design comps utilizing WordPress, current trends, and best practices.    • Develop websites utilizing client-side technologies such as, JQuery, Javascript, CSS, and  HTML Web Developer Warehouse Twenty One August 2010 to June 2011 • Develop public facing websites using both SharePoint and WordPress    • Develop websites utilizing client-side technologies such as, JQuery, Javascript, CSS, and  HTML    • Experience with C#.NET and MS SQL Server 2008. Software Developer Wyoming Department of Education December 2006 to August 2010 Develop ASP.NET applications that collect user input and insert into SQL Server and  Oracle databases.    • Information Architect/Project manager in Designing, Developing, and maintaining WDE  external websites utilizing Telerik controls and Sitefinity CMS.    • Design, develop, and maintain WDE external and intranet SharePoint instance(s).    • Work with a team of developers to create source control and collaboration development  environment using Microsoft Team Foundation Server.    • Create reports in SQL Server Reporting Services utilizing BIDS and Report Builder 3.0    • Utilizing Photoshop and Illustrator, designed logos, graphics, and mockups of web  applications and websites. Education A. A. S. in Web Design Laramie County Community College - Cheyenne, WY Additional Information Computer Skills:  Languages: Languages: PHP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, C#, ASP.MVC  Platforms: WordPress, Custom .NET applications,  Databases: MySQL, MS SQL Server 2005/2008    Operating Systems: Windows & Mac  Software: Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop), MS Visual Studio, MySQL Workbench,  PHPmyAdmin, SQL Management Studio, Subversion, WHM/cPanel, Sublime Text, Webkit,  PrePros