Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Citibank Jersey City, NJ ? Having 11+ years of experience with specialization in development, and customization of software applications, to deliver robust and scalable enterprise scale systems for corporate clients using J2EE technologies.  ? Strong experience in working on user interface applications and professional web applications using HTML,  ? HTML5, XSL, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, Node.js,Backbone.JS,ReactJS.  ? Developed, Configured and Deployed a variety of Portals and UI Applications including HTML, CSS3 and  JavaScript.  ? Expert knowledge in Flex, Photoshop, Illustrator, Macromedia Dreamweaver and Flash in a PC environment.  ? Well versed in concept building, information design, visualization, testing web based applications.  ? Knowledge on various terminologies like Software Developmental Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? SOAP response converted to Json message using inbuilt policy.  ? Experience in working with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX and JQUERY.  ? Working knowledge on JavaScript library JSON and XML Technologies.  ? Experience in making Responsive web pages using Twitter Bootstrap and media queries.  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, backbone, Angular JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  ? Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  ? In-Depth knowledge/Experience of Web 2.0, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, W3C Standards.  ? Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  ? Experienced with implementing different features of Bootstrap.  ? Worked with GIS teams to develop Best Practices work flow strategies; Identified potential data conflicts and offered resolutions  ? Provided technical support for all GIS related activities (data development, data gathering, troubleshooting)  ? Good knowledge in Backbone.js and Responsive Design.  ? Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and Java Script.  ? Good understanding in Angular.js, Ember.js, Jasmine, Karma, Backbone.js, React.js, MyBatis, require.js, node.js framework concepts and Responsive Design.  ? Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like IE, Mozilla FF, and Chrome.  ? Worked on IDE's like Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visual Studio to build HTML pages.  ? Developed protocol transformation from XML from/to JSON.  ? Wrote application level code to interact with the backend (Java) code AJAX and JSON. Wrote code to consume the JSON data as a part of JQUERY AJAX calls and update the DOM  ? Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML, CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  ? Experience working on JSP.  ? Experienced in Responsive Web Design.  ? Managing Mongo DB using MMS monitoring tool.  ? Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web, and client-server environments including Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE), JavaServer Pages (JSP), Java Servlets (including JNDI), Struts, and Java database Connectivity (JDBC) technologies.  ? Involved to create the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner using web technologies like HTML5,XHTML, and CSS3 based on the W3C and ADA standards.  ? Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  ? Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on Windows.  ? Experience with Browser testing, knowledge of cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility.  ? Strong experience with Search Engine Optimization (SEO) principles and Cross Browser Compatibility issues, graphic optimization for the web, including browser-safe palettes and file size management  ? Well knowledge of various frameworks of JavaScript like jQuery, jQuery UI and jQuery Mobile.  ? Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues. Work Experience Web Developer Citibank - Jersey City, NJ September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Analysis, Detail Design, Development, Bug fixing and Enhancement in Agile methodology.  • Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTFUL Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Designed Responsive Web pages using media queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture. Experienced in working with Redux architecture.  • Working with ECMA Script 6 features. For build of JSX and ES2015(ES6) used Babel, webpack.  • Working with React Router for developing Single Page Applications SPAs.  • Experienced in developing React components.  • Used Axios with ReactJs for making AJAX Calls.  • Integrated Apache Camel (ESB) with Spring boot.  • Worked on Webpack for build and webpack-dev-server a server.  • Actively involved developing proof of concept for a newly proposed application in using Angular 2.  • Working experience with Typescript new features block scope, type restrictions, decorators, arrow functions, classes, interfaces, modules (import and exports).  • Used webpack, babel and gulp for transpilation(compilation) configuration for typescript to be converted to JavaScript.  • Worked with Angular JS 2.0 to develop single page applications, worked with ngrx/store for managing Angular 2.0 applications.  • Used Spring annotations as well as xml configuration for dependency injection  • Worked with http interceptors configurations for security in Angular 2.0 applications.  • Worked with Angular JS 2.0 directives, components, pipes, injectables.  • For Responsive Web design used Bootstrap to build grids, layouts and components. Used Bootstrap components like dropdown menus, navigation bar, alerts, and labels.  • Setup Jasmine and Karma for UNIT and Functional Testing of JavaScript with mocking frameworks and spys.  • Worked with MEAN/ MERN stack for developing applications.  • Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with MongoDB.  • Worked with Express.js for development of RESTful web services and middle ware configurations.  • Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Worked with npm commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of node js applications.  • Worked with Grunt, Gulp for task runner configurations for minification, watch, jshint, jscs, css autoprefixer, sass compilation, bundling and test runner configurations and make it available as a command.  • Worked with unit testing of javascript applications using Karma, Jasmine, apimocker, Jest, enzyme, snion.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, ECMA Script CSS/CSS3, SASS, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, MySQL, SVN, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Karma, Grunt, Bower, GIT, Agile. ReactJs & NodeJS Developer Intuit/New York November 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Creation of UI pages and custom components using JSP and Spring.  • Work on WCAG 2.0 AA compliance audits for Accessibility.  • Support multiple agile development teams in a highly collaborative environment to remediate existing web applications.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Designed the front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS.  • Involved in writing the front-end code for the application using Angular 4.  • Worked on Creating an AngularJS Application using a MVC framework.  • Involved in unit testing by creating Test Suites using Jest framework, and end-to-end Angular 5 testing using Protractor.  • Developed UI using Polymer and GE Predix components, Flexbox and SASS (CSS pre-processors - Mixins, Variables).  • Designing and developed Micro Services using (MEAN Stack) Node.js, Elastic search on Private Cloud OpenStack Platform using Express.js.  • Extensive experience with Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Transaction, Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring Integration and Hibernate ORM.  • Developed a few UI modules for the mobile version of the website using ReactJS.  • Integrated the different pages to be a single page application using Angular 4 and Typescript.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 4.  • Extensively used oracle sql and used spring data for mapping repository.  • Utilized AngularJS framework to bind AngularJS template(views) to JavaScript object(models  • Created features like dropdown list, search function and card model by using AngularJS material.  • Used HTML5 and AngularJS to format the input forms and handled the input validations.  • Designed and developed the Presentation layer using Angular 4 and Angular Material.  • Built factories to utilize AngularJS services such as $http and $resource to consume the Restful APIs for data parsing from based backend server.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining architecture for Restful API using Spring Boot.  • Designed UI screens using CSS, AngularJS Framework and HTML.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Involved in Agile/SCRUM based approach to UI Development.  • Worked on single page applications using AngularJS 2.0.  • Responsible for creation and execution of the Unit Test Cases using Jasmine as testing framework and Karma as test runner.  • Integration of UI screens with the Database by making use of web services.  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Designed and developed the agent portal using framework AngularJS 2.0.along with HTML5, CSS3, and Typescript.  • Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validations and JavaScript and XHTML pages.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens.  • Involved in consuming Restful APIs and processing JSON data for rendering in UI.  • Expertise in developing Rich Internet Application (RIA) using Adobe Flex and Action Script using Cairngorm Framework (MVC).    Environment: HTML/HTML5, ECMA Script CSS/CSS3, SASS, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, MySQL, SVN, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Karma, Grunt, Bower, GIT, Agile. Sr. UI/UX Developer Novartis - Parsippany, NJ March 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in web designing using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Work with Visual and UX Designers to translate visual concepts into functional online experiences, microsites, and other digital media.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  • Worked within creative, operations, marketing, and development teams AngularJS, ReactJS in an Agile project management setting to administer product life cycle jQuery Bootstrap.  • Used JQUERY plug-ins to implement features as a light box, sliders and other intuitive features.  • Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using Flash, CSS, Adobe, Photoshop, Dreamweaver and JavaScript.  • Assisted with implementation of GIS program and all corresponding requirements  • Perform editing and analysis activities involving heads up digitizing, complex data rules and linear referencing in an ESRI GIS data format.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.js.  • Participated in making Responsive Web Designs using Media Queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front-end UX design such as web pages, graphics.  • Used Jasmine unit testing for JavaScript and Angular JS code.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js and Node.js.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Implemented client side Interface using React.JS (flux).  • Design, develop and test HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.JS, Redux that meets accessibility and web browser standards for car dealerships websites.  • Client Side code was written in React JS, Backbone JS and Server Side Code were developed using MVC4.  • Worked on RESTFUL Responsive Design which would support most of the devices as well.  • Worked on Adobe tagging to capture the Metrix for UI elements based on requirements.  • Performed Unit Testing and Integration testing of the application.  • Developed various functionalities such as search, pagination, filtering.  • Implemented CSS3 and JavaScript based navigation system visually identical to previous table-based system to improve ease of maintenance and organic search engine placement.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, LESS and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Ensure the continuous availability of our mission critical MongoDB clusters.  • Developed a real-time collaborative module in node.js that enabled users to create real-time block diagrams.  • Developed on demand, combo and compression server using Node.js.  • Experience working on Node.js passport module for authentication.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Used AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Developed large scale, real-time, live blogging server and UI using Node.js and Angular.js.  • Worked extensively on applications to work properly on Android devices and all the browsers like Mobile safari, Desktop safari on Windows, IE, Firefox, and Chrome.  Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS3, Java, Dojo, JavaScript, React JS, Responsive Design, Sencha, Node JS, Backbone.js, Node.JS, AngularJS, Mongo DB, JQuery, JSP, AJAX, JSON, Jasmine. Web UI developer Fiserv - Alpharetta, GA August 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Enhanced and maintained a website for the company learning internal working of the shipping industry using HTML, CSSandDreamweaver.  • Used 'JPA Provider' framework which allows easy interaction with database instance.  • Dealt closely with working of order and supply software for shipping parts using Excel for data inventory and analysis  • Understood the dynamics of shipping and fabrication industry and first time exposure to professional industry and got opportunity to work as a team and assist in execution of projects.  • Exposed to SDLC and waterfall model structure of product development.  • Worked on CSS to design the navigation, gradient background and used other style properties to enhance the look of the web page.  • Developed a modular css architecture (using Sass) that significantly reduced the effort necessary to "skin" the user interface.  • Produced sketches, comps, redlines, graphic assets, prototypes, design guidelines and style guides.  • Enterprises user authentication tools in several stages of project.  • Extensively used Knockout Validation to customize the error messages and to make the tool configurable.  • Enterprise User Security and the Oracle Security Architecture was used.  • Created and performed SQL queries to fetch data from the backend database.  • Worked on testing the cross browser compatibility.  • Worked on HTML and XHTML to create web pages.  • Created user-friendly and professionally organized UI's  • Employed complex Microsoft Excel to transform data into formats usable by ESRI.  • Hands on experience in frontend frameworks used MySQL to work on database.  • Create and maintain all front end aspects for seven different software products using Knockout.js, MVC.  • Redesign and maintain existing internal web application usingHTML, CSS, Typescript and KnockoutJS.  • Exposed to SDLC and waterfall model structure of product development.  • Worked on HTML and XHTML to create web pages.  • Used to CSS to create proper look and feel of the web pages and to align them properly.  • Worked extensively on JavaScript to do validation and dynamic web pages.  Environment:HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, knockout js,jQuery, SOAP, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, Node.js, Agile SCRUM. Web Developer PNC Financial Group - Bowling Green, OH November 2010 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the preparation of prototype and demos of the project and presented before the client to check that it meets their requirements.  • Optimized images for web page display, and feature item slides using Adobe Photoshop.  • Maintained page layouts, navigation, presented designs and concepts to the clients and the managements to review.  • Cooperated with team members to conduct user research with strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills.  • Created database tables and manipulated data using MySQL.  • Used JSON to store and access the data in a search pages.  • Developed modules to retrieve data using AJAX calls through jQuery method.  • Applied XML into transferring administration data to the back end.  • Validated the user input using jQuery validation plugin.  • Implemented a lightweight customizable jQuery plugin for styled appearance.  • Resolved Cross Browser Compatible Issues for different version of IE, Safari, Chrome, Firefox and Opera.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and data validation on the client side with in the forms.  Environment:HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, SQL, SVN, Photoshop, XML. Web Developer Saint Petersburg, FL June 2008 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  • Dynamic web site design and programming using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Developed jQuery based calendar to schedule appointments.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON.  • Created appropriate concept models, site organization prototypes, navigation, page layouts and interaction.  Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS Style Sheets.  • Developed interface to display report data using jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript and JSON, XML  • Used various jQuery plugins like auto complete, date picker, color picker, document slider to enhance the usability, functionality and overall experience for website.  • Implemented pagination and sorting functionalities in different modules using jQuery plugins  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Deployed the application using WebSphere Application Server.  • Served as the Lead Developer for the team of eight.  • Built complex desktop - style UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX including configuration wizards and interactive reports.  • Developed the Web Interface using Servlets, Java Server Pages, HTML and CSS.  • Developed the DAO objects using JDBC.  • Business Services using the Servlets and Java.  • Developed and modified Servlets to accept and process request from the clients.  • Developed various objects using java and HTML and DHTML to maintain well-structured GUI and to interact with Controllers to get data from Oracle database.  • Used JDBC to connect the J2EEserver with the relational database.  • User input validations done using JavaScript and developed use cases using UML.  • Extreme programming methodologies for replacing the existing code and testing in J2EE environment.  • Developed java classes for business layer.  • Developed frontend layout and intro for home page using Fireworks.  • Utilized the mail merge techniques in MS Word for the time reduction in sending certificates.  • Extensively used images of the product for web and catalogue.  • Web Application Developed using Web Technologies 2.0.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility, cross-browser / platform testing and compatibility assurance  • Using SVN for version control.  • Participated in requirement gathering, coordinated with various development teams in code integration.    Environment:HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, Adobe Dreamweaver, Eclipse, Apache HTTP  Server,MySQL. Education Bachelor's Skills Application server, Html, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Json, Php, Scripting, Xml, Ajax, Css, Dhtml, Tomcat, Java, jquery, Jsp, Servlet, Database, Jdbc Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac OS  Web Development HTML5, CSS3, SASS,Servlet, PHP,JSP, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, XML, XHTML, DHTML, MVC, DOM, JDBC  JavaScript Libraries JQuery, Ext.js, Angular.js,react.js backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Bootstrap. ,knockout.js,Angular.js/2.0  Scripting Languages HTML, CSS, Java script, AJAX, Shell script, jQuery  Database Skills SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, JDBC  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, FTP and SOAP.  Web/Application Server IBM Websphere6.0/7.0, Apache Tomcat 4.1, and Weblogic10g/11g