Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Developer - Element Fleet Management (Only Local Project) Sparks, MD Having 16 years of professional IT experience in development and support of web-based applications. I have strong domain knowledge in Finance, Fleet, Energy, Health-Care, Manufacturing, State Government, and Federal Government.  ? Strong analytical skills with excellent interpersonal and communication skills.  ? Experience working in Agile IT development team.  ? Result oriented, Lead team player, self starter, quick learner, contributor and proficient in working on multiple projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Developer Element Fleet Management - Sparks, MD November 2013 to Present Roles and Responsibility: Involved with development and support of Element Fleet Management web applications. I write complex SQL queries and procedures. I do code review for the code change made by other developers. I coordinate with QA team and business users for testing and feedback.  Ordering Application: Element is redesigning its existing Ordering application. My role as a senior developer is to write a number of backend services that will be called from the user interface. The completed services can be tested using Postman in addition to user interface. Client fleet managers can order and track fleets from the time order got created all the way to deliver. There are several steps along the way - saved, submitted, submitted with errors, approval pending, rejected, approved, built, and delivered. For approval, the application has rule service that will process an order based on the rules setup. The app has notification service that will notify appropriate stakeholders regarding the status of an order.  Environment: Java 1.8, Vert.x framework, Hibernate, JPA, Backbone, PostGres, Autosys, and Tomcat. The Version control is managed using github and deployment is done using Jenkins.  Chesapeake Funding Application: Chesapeake II is a new funding source for Element. This was structured as one homogeneous pool of asset leases available for investors to fund. With Chesapeake II, the pool of asset leases is divided into multiple pools, with each pool (fund) shaping to a different investment profile. Each profile reflects the asset leases and associated clients populating each pool. For example, one pool could feature a low-risk, low-return profile with financially stable clients, whereas another pool could feature a high-risk, high-return profile.  Environment: Java, Spring Boot, Hibernate, JPA, Backbone, Sybase, Talend, Autosys, and Tomcat. The Version control is managed using github and deployment is done using Jenkins.  Contract and Program Enrollment Application (CPE): CPE application captures fleet client's contract and program enrollment information. The client unit fee codes, fee amount, effective date, and expiry date are captured and sent to Mainframe side for Billing. Earlier, Mainframe was the source system. Going forward, the CPE application will be the source system. The app will send a text file to Mainframe on an hourly basis.  Environment: Java, Spring Boot, Hibernate, JPA, Backbone, Sybase, Talend, Autosys, and Tomcat. The Version control is managed using github and deployment is done using Jenkins. Senior Web Developer Lockheed Martin - Baltimore, MD April 2012 to November 2013 Duties: To provide design, development, and support to Social Security Administration's (SSA) web-based applications. The application I work on is Agreement Workflow Tool (AWT). The application must meet section 508 compliance standard of the Federal government in addition to the business requirements and web development standards.  Agreement Workflow Tool (AWT): This tool manages agencies' electronic agreement workflow process. The newly created agreements or last updated agreements shall always show up on the top of the agreement queue. Users can select an agreement and work through it in a step by step manner to have necessary approvals. The agreement rules are defined in the database. An agreement shows up in the queue based on certain conditions. For instance, completed or expired agreements will no longer show up in the agreement queue but can be found using agreement advance search option. In the next major release, the tool will include major enhancements like Billing, Reporting, Workflow Builder, and so on.  Accomplishment: I am involved in successful completion of two major releases and two maintenance releases. I have received outstanding peer award for dedication and hard work toward successful completion of a major release.  Environment: Java J2EE, JSF, Richfaces, EJB, JSP, Javascript, JQuery, HTML, Ajax, IBM Websphere, DB2, HTML, XML, JavaScript, and J-Query. The Version control is managed using MKS.    Prior project assignments Senior Web Developer PHH Corporation - Sparks, MD August 2011 to February 2012 Senior Web Developer Tri-State Generation & Transmission Inc - Westminster, CO July 2010 to July 2011 Senior Web Developer DaVita - Lakewood, CO June 2008 to June 2010 Senior Web Developer State of Michigan - Lansing, MI October 2003 to May 2008 Education Masters in Information Systems in Information Systems University of Phoenix August 2009 to December 2010 Masters in Information Technology Alagappa University December 2007 to December 2009 Bachelor's degree in Mathematics in Mathematics University of Madras - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 1986 to June 1989 Skills Backbone (5 years), Java (6 years), PostGres (5 years), SQL (5 years), Sybase (5 years) Links http://www.datacoresystems.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Skill Set Experience in years  Java J2EE (version 8) 12  Talend ETL 6.1 4  ColdFusion (version 9) 8  Frameworks - Spring-Boot, JPA, Hibernate, Spring MVC, JSF, MyBatis, AJAX, SOAP and Restful Web-services 9  Servers Tomcat, WebSphere, and Web logic 10  Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 12  Databases - Sybase, Oracle, SQL Server, PostGres, and MySQL 16  JQuery / AJAX 10  Backbone JS and Angular JS 2  Unix and Window OS 12  Github, SVN, MKS, and Jenkin 10