Human Factors Specialist Human Factors Specialist Web Developer/Designer, 508 Specialist Arlington, VA I have over 20 years' experience as a front-end web designer/ developer using HTML5, HTML, XHTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), graphics, and Federal Section 508 and general usability standards. Also experienced working with teammates with additional skills.    Physical limitations require full-time telecommuting. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Human Factors Specialist Federal Aviation Administration August 2018 to Present Working with a team of six including a business analyst and other designers/ developers on UX wire frames for a major FAA project for tracking medical information. Sr. Web Developer Federal Highway Administration - Washington, DC November 2017 to Present Member of the FHWA web team supporting the offices of Policy, International Policy, Civil Rights, and Research, Development, and Technology. Developing a new template for Civil Rights. Maintaining content for all offices. Converting MS Word to complaint HTML. Producing Section 508 PDF documents with CommonLook. Sr. Web Developer Federal Highway Administration - Washington, DC April 2013 to November 2017 Worked with a federal lead to lead a team of three contract web developers to maintain Office of Environment, Planning, and Real Estate Services Converted new documents and updated existing documents, and validated HTML code. April 2013, completed a 4-year redesign of entire site working with a team of 5 to update over 10,000 web pages. www.fhwa.dot.gov/hep/ Web Developer II Federal Highway Administration - Washington, DC May 2002 to April 2013 Maintained the Office of Environment, Planning, and Realty. Converted new documents and updated existing documents. Validated HTML code to W3C standards. Performed quality assurance on other teammates work. Assigned as Team Lead for quality assurance for other teammates work Web Developer Federal Highway Administration - Washington, DC October 2000 to May 2002 Maintained the Office of Environment, Planning, and Real Estate Services. Responsibilities included converting new documents and updating existing documents to match requirements and validating HTML code to W3C standards. Also worked with the FHWA Web Master to update the entire site to new standards and design including implementing Cascading Style Sheets and Section 508 requirements. Education MBA in Technical and Professional Communication Frostburg State University B.S. in Speech Communication Frostburg State College Ongoing Training New Horizons Learning Center - Tysons Corner, VA Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Dreamweaver (10+ years), Web design (10+ years), HTML 5 (3 years), Adobe acrobat, Microsoft office, Photoshop, training, Axure (1 year) Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Planning & Execution — Completed August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively plan and manage resources to accomplish organizational goals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/q3nse3xggvusotkz Verbal Communication — Expert August 2019 Speaking clearly, correctly, and concisely. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pgoox5nqxwsfe4rs Graphic Design — Proficient August 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mih68x3katagfrs5 Email — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s-wwce8ftsfk8wjy Customer Focus & Orientation — Proficient August 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qvpfbn3hb-wk0uh Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skill Areas  • Axure  • Coding HTML5, HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Complying with US Federal Section 508 accessibility requirements and WCAG 2.0 standards.  • Validating HTML documents to the World Wide Web Consortium's (W3C) HTML 4.01 Transitional, XHTML 1.0 Transitional, and HTML5 standards.  • Using Dreamweaver, CSE Validator, and Textpad and other tools to create and publish HTML.  • Using Microsoft Office, Photoshop, Adobe Acrobat, and other applications to create other documents and files related to web design.