Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Saugus, MA My objective is to become an important part of a business committed to a standard of excellence. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer LTHImagery - Boston, MA April 1994 to Present 91 - 01 Graphic Artist at Liquid World Resources  Creating high end graphics for use in multi-media productions. Created 3-D animation, also for use in multimedia  productions.    93 - 00 Graphic Designer, Lotus Corporation  Designing corporate packages and bi-weekly in house newsletters.    95 - 97 Prepress Technician, A-Type  Output film and RC paper on an AGFA 9000 imagesetter. I learned to completely maintain the image setter,  changing it from film to RC, downloading it for either of the two and so on. I essentially saw jobs through from  either their creation, or straight output as a service bureau. I would also trouble shoot problem jobs. A list of  clients includes but is not limited to, Dalbar Inc., Fidelity Investments, Thomson Financial, and Copy Cop.    98 - 08Manager of Information Systems, Webmaster, Prepress Technician  Initially my responsibilities included pre-flight, typesetting, and/or outputting electronic files to film using a Scitex  Dolev 450. I maintained the film processor, and created Dupont Color Water Proofs via a Dupont Water Color  Proofing System. We have since changed to computer to plate technology using a CreoScitex Lotem 800v, and I  have been initially trained in it usage and maintainance. The equipment I worked with includes: Heidelberg Tango  Drum Scanner, CreoScitex Brisque work flow, CreoScitex Lotem 800v, Iris 2Print, Iris 43" wide, Creoscitex  Server 3000, and a Kodak Polychrome CTP Processor. I am responsible for administration of all network  services, maintaining network integrity, security, internet connectivity, and backup processes. I'm an  applications specialist, trouble shooting, or instructing on proper usage. I worked with four servers running  respective operating systems: Windows, Mac, and Unix (CreoScitex Server 3000). I also  administered and maintained the company web site and email server. I was a drum scanner operator, trained on a  Heidelberg Tango drum scanner I was the Company's resident Adobe Photoshop expert. I am an expert user in all of  the industry standard prepress applications on both the Mac and PC. Education Graphic Design Salem State College AA in Liberal Arts North Shore Community College Skills HTML Certifications/Licenses certified Heidelberg drum scanner operator March 2004 to Present Scanned high resolution negatives, using a solution and below tape to secure to cylinder. Squeezing any air bubbles for a precise scan. certified back up systems administrator. from monitoring mail server, to organizing customers original files to be backed up. To backing up customer projects from start to finish. Present I was desigated manager of information systems, in 2005. Implentented fiber optic network and wireless access, and security. Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS:  - Knowledge of all industry standard prepress applications, computer platforms, and practices  7 years  - In depth knowledge of Adobe Photoshop, photo retouching and color manipulation  7 years  - Trained drum scanner operator  1 year  - Administered WAN and LAN office networks, internet access, web site, and email servers  4 years  - Developing Wide Area Networks and Local Area Networks using the Windows NT Server Operating system  and Unix Operating system, connecting them to Local Area Networks based on both PC and Apple  computers.  2 years  - Manage information systems, applications, workstations, and servers.  2 years