Drupal Developer Drupal <span class="hl">Developer</span> Drupal Developer - American Hospital Association Chicago, IL • Over 10 years of experience in PHP development with creation of websites and enterprise application using LAMP, PHP, Drupal, WORDPRESS.  • Drupal Architect/ Developer with over 5 years of experience working on migration and other web and API development projects.  • Areas of expertise include object-oriented PHP, SQL Server, MYSQL (LAMP/WAMP stack), XML, Web service.  • designing, building & supporting complex DRUPAL web applications for large consumer focused websites. Used DRUPAL 6, 7, 8  • Proficient in building User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML/HTML5, XHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, React.js, AJAX, JSON, XML, Twitter Bootstrap.  • Working experience on CSS background, CSS positioning, CSS Text, CSS Broder, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, pseudo classes, pseudo elements.  • Experience working with CSS compilers like SASS/SCSS and LESS.  • Highly experienced with modern JS frameworks and libraries like AngularJS and jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Experienced in solving issues in web browsers, following the W3C standards to maintain the website with defect free.  • Extensive experience in design, analysis, development, Version Control and Production Support of full life cycle or SDLC experience, multi-tier, database and script-based in web-based & desktop applications.  • Created New Templates for the administrator areas with various options to be implemented Using Drupal.  • Developed custom Drupal Theme to effectively address business requirements.  • Used SQL queries to update and retrieve needed information from the Database.  • Experienced in various IDEs like Eclipse, Notepad++, Sublime Text, and Microsoft Visual Studio.  • Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML and MVC Architecture and have experience in using version control (SVN).  • Experience in Web API to build REST based interfaces.  • Extensive experience in working with Eclipse, My Eclipse, Toad and Version Controls such as CVS.  • Creative Knowledge in Art creation, modification and conversion- Logos, print media, web page and software interface design using Photoshop, Adobe Flash and Illustrator.  • Extensively used JavaScript, Angular.js and Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) technologies to build dynamic web contents with high performance.  • Designed and developed relational database systems and Client/Server applications.  • Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc.  • Excellent troubleshooting, debugging and problem-solving skills for technical issue.  • Specialties in Accessible Web design and development, W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines.  • Strong Analytical, Problem Solving and debugging skills with excellent understanding of system development metrics, techniques and tools.  • Experience on developing which also includes web services like Web, REST, RESTFUL API'S etc. with the help of WSDL, SOAP and JAX-WS, MongoDB and AWS to get updates from the third parties.  • Experience in developing Ext-JS components like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, and Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Passionate to create an excellent work environment through coordination and co-operation with the team members and other departments  • Good communication skills, Interpersonal skills and strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Drupal Developer American Hospital Association - Chicago, IL August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Drupal-based website, including: Content types, Views and other functional requirements.  • Worked on Web Form Security for Forms authentication of user's registration.  • Worked on an open-source CMS to build website using Drupal8.  • Designed forms and user interfaces for administrator, supervisor and employee using Drupal and CSS.  • Implemented dashboard enhancements to the Verified website using JavaScript, Tableau.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style mark-up presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Created the screens with table-less designs emphasizing W3C standards.  • Experience on digital-media consulting with adobe Photoshop, macromedia freehand.  • Created Client-Side UI with object- oriented JavaScript and AJAX with API.  • Parsing the JSON requests and responses by creating reports from child data.  • Used JavaScript and JQUERY for user interactivity for making the websites dynamic.    Environment: Drupal 7/8, Hash512, OAuth, PHP , HTML 5, XHTML, CSS3, AJAX, Windows, MySQL, JavaScript, Apache web server. Drupal Developer Optum - Rocky Hill, CT July 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing and implementing new features and functionality.  • Working with multiple Drupal sites for Optum.com  • Enhanced the current Drupal Site with custom and contributed modules using agile methodology.  • Work closely with front-end developers to ensure an affective, visually appealing, functional and intuitive implementation.  • Created REST services to export Drupal data in a JSON format varnish ESI calls.  • Configured Varnish for caching.  • Using JIRA to track all the new tasks, issues and the backlogs.  • Use the Drush commands extensively for the development and deployment.  • Used PHPMYADMIN for MySQL connectivity and management.  • Maintain and improve website design and development.  • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production.  • Maintained and supported existing applications built on the Drupal platform ensuring site availability.  • Support For all Drupal Sites when there's any Drupal Core Security Updates.    Environment: PHP5, Drupal 7/8, JavaScript, HTML5/CSS3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Apache web server, REST API. Drupal Developer Aetna - Hartford, CT June 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities  • Developed multiple POCs to create an interface between Backend to Frontend by using Mongo DB, Express JS, Angular JS and Node.js.  • Implemented RESTFul API's using Doctrine.  • Worked on Extensible MVC implementation supporting layouts and PHP-based templates by default and accessing properties on OOPS with Symfony framework.  • Built a complete CMS in AngularJS as Front end and java (using REST) as backend for creating web and mobile based application.  • Worked on theme layer for Drupal.  • Also worked with a team for designing the payroll form for the employee using Symfony, CSS.  • Involved in the development using Drupal and PHP  • Worked in Agile based environment with daily scrum calls and coordination with the offshore team.  • Worked heavily on Drupal CMS development and developed various custom modules  • Worked on Drupal to create custom widgets  • Worked with Drupal modules, theming, distributions & content management  • Used HTML, CSS, javascript, jquery, Ajax on client side.  • Worked with HTML5 development, including CSS3 and Javascript technologies like jQuery, Angular, and SASS.  • Utilized AJAX and Jquery to improve the performance of the application.  • Extensively used SQL and Relational Databases, especially MySQL and RDS.  • Worked in Agile based environment with daily scrum calls and coordination with the onsite team and client.  • Wrote SQL queries at an advanced level, imported/exported database dmp files, and source control.  • Used Linux command line environment and other tools related to the LAMP stack.  • Developed code using Amazon S3 cloud.  • Conceived and designed database tables in MYSQL 5  • Involved in developing interactive web applications using a dynamic scripting language like PHP, Ruby, Python & Perl.  • Back end development using Symfony2, and MySql, handle front end using HTML, SSL, JQuery and CSS.  • Built custom modules and libraries in Drupal  • Extensively used AJAX for data handling with JSON, DOM and XML as data interchange formats.  • Developed UI event handlers and AJAX callback code using Sencha Ext JS/Touch & Angular JS to interact with the CDP-GUI Web services.  • Majority of code written in Symfony framework.  • Created client side validation tool using technologies such as Ext JS and JavaScript.  • Responsible to handle user interactions with the application.  • Create custom UI Components and involved in Code review and bug fixing.  • Created Graphic User Interface and applied to web site    Environment: Magento, PHP5.3, MySQL, LAMP, Zend, JavaScript, AJAX, Jquery, CSS3, XHTML, HTML5, AWS, Cake JQuery, Angular.js, Node.js, Express.js, Codeignitor, Html 5, XML, XSD, Mongo DB, SOAP, SAAS, PL/SQL, Photoshop. Drupal Developer FedEx Corporation - Irving, TX May 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed fully functional, cross browser compatible websites on DRUPAL platform utilizing Agile and Scrum methodologies.  • Worked as a part of team on a series of Drupal sites (D8), which included custom panels, blocks, content types, and views that allow every user to customize the look of their site.  • Created Drupal modules for Active log sessions and Service Reporting System.  • Maintained groups of multiple users with Drupal CMS.  • Worked heavily on DRUPAL CMS development and developed various custom modules.  • Site content migration from Drupal 6 to Drupal 7 and Drupal 8.  • Implemented dashboard enhancements to the Verified website using PHP, LARAVEL Framework, JQuery and HTML5.  • Worked with design patterns like singleton pattern and registry pattern in Symphony web application framework as well as Model-View-Control (MVC) pattern in ZEND framework.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, Angular.JS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  • Used Angular.JS for heavy DOM manipulation and Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, and JQUERY.  • Deployed application software on Linux Server with Juniper router configuration.  • Used all aspects of MySQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment.    Environment: Drupal 7/8, REST API, OAuth, PHP 5, HTML 5, XHTML, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, MySQL, Windows, Apache, LAMP stack, MVC Frame Work, jQuery. PHP / Drupal Developer Kaiser Permanente - Oakland, CA April 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Created DRUPAL modules for quick approvals, billing and pay rates, custom reporting and payroll Integration.  • Extensively worked on efficient Drupal websites and Drupal development technologies such as Drush, Features, Panels, Services, and Context.  • Involved in implementing MVC architecture to segregate business logic from the view using OOP in PHP 5.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Used PHPMYADMIN for MySQL connectivity and management.  • Maintain and improve website design and development.  • Created report generator that queried the MYSQL database for user-specified information.  • Used AngularJS including authoring complex directives, services, controllers, and filters.  • Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using Angular.JS.  • Deployed the application software on the Linux Server via Juniper router configuration.  • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production.  • Used JQuery to make the HTML5, DHTML and CSS3 to interact with the JavaScript functions. Created pages in Mock-ups and validated the HTML code with W3C Validator. Involved in fixing Front-End issues with the layouts.    Environment: PHP5, JavaScript, Zend Framework, HTML5/CSS3, Angular.JS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Apache web server, LINUX PHP Web Developer Energy Future Holdings - Dallas, TX March 2010 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed/Design the application using LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) architecture Communicated with client to fetch requirement and analyse requirement for developing functionality accordingly.  • Integrated existing Word Press modules as well as created custom themes, modules, views, functions and hooks.  • Provided access to authenticated as well as anonymous as authenticated users to create blogs, post comments in Word Press.  • Developed LARAVEL application for managing Google analytics test.  • Conceived and designed database tables in MYSQL.  • Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using UI and MVC architecture.  • Designed theme using HTML /XHTML, CSS.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while following code standards  • Used php My Admin to handle the administration of MYSQL over the World Wide Web.  • Tracked and fixed bugs that were found during various phases of developments.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, CSS floats, cross browser compatibility and CSS behaviours in CSS.    Environment: PHP5, JavaScript, Zend Framework, HTML5/CSS3, Angular.JS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Apache web server, LINUX. Web Developer Duke Energy - Raleigh, NC February 2009 to March 2010 Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and documented all UI components for the application in accordance with business requirements using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax.  • Performed full life-cycle development, planning and integration of web-based software solution using PHP, Word Press, JavaScript, java, AJAX, and MySQL.  • Daily content change migrations as per Business requirement, such as creating forms, updating the existing forms to accept improvised validations.  • Worked on page load optimization, unit testing and implemented SEO.  • Built AJAX pages using PHP and created various asynchronous web applications.  • Integrating user-facing elements by front-end developers.  • Involved in setting up and maintaining Word Press servers.  • Worked on building custom Word Press plugins.  • Involved in developing Word Press themes and plugins.  • Worked on Linux Environment and familiar with VI editor and file operations in Linux.  • Good knowledge in REST APIs and their integration to Word Press.  • Installed and worked with Subversion for versioning control.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, PHP, Servlets, AJAX, JSON, XML, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools. Education Bachelor's August 2018 to Present Skills Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, JSON, PHP