Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Web Developer - Upwork Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Upwork - Little Rock, AR April 2017 to Present Worked on a variety of projects for a wide range of clients, assisting them with their business needs by creating innovative and cutting-edge web applications.  ? Developed several applications using Ruby on Rails and other software development tools  ? Collaborated with several organizations' in-house software teams to create online applications and tools  ? Provided consulting services in addition to development services, assisting businesses to optimize the software applications and their online presence  ? Key projects included AWS services, Heroku, Database (PostgreSQL) optimization, PayPal research, and Facebook API integration. Senior Software Developer BBA Solutions - Little Rock, AR January 2013 to Present Planned and developed over 30 projects in the textbook marketplace domain. Supported the business team with all the tools and reports they required to meet the organization's objectives. Focused on supporting  the Amazon platform by integrating BBA's online store with Amazon.  ? Produced a competitive pricing engine enabling the company to stay ahead of the competition  ? Created an applications suite to manage a $7M textbook buy-back project  ? Developed an internal marketplace which accommodated over 100 partner merchants,  ? Programmed custom integrations with many of the most advanced third-party APIs  ? Built and populated a custom data warehouse with over 100 data points.  ? Promoted from entry-level Developer to Junior Developer and then Senior Developer  k.elnadim87@gmail.com | 501-551-2855  linkedin.com/in/kelnadim | Karim E. on Upwork.com PHP Web Developer Jenal Designs - New York, NY January 2011 to May 2012 Created an application for scanning international ID's used in the rental of bikes, including integrating a POS system with hardware APIs and reporting capabilities.  ? Developed an application to manage bikes and bike gears inventory  ? Integrated an ID scanning and form filling API into the application Owner Xemex - Alexandria, EG January 2007 to May 2010 Started and managed a business which provided a variety of technology-related services.  ? Developed gaming application facilities with the hardware and software necessary for users to participate in online games  ? Created an application to track the use of the gaming rooms for billing purposes  ? Set up and managed the network for the internet café the company operated  ? Performed hardware and software repairs on customers' computing equipment Education Bachelor of Engineering in Software Development Western Governors University Diploma in Computerized Application New York Institute Of English And Business Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Alexandria Higher Institute of Technology Links http://linkedin.com/in/kelnadim http://Upwork.com