FREELANCE WEB DEVELOPER FREELANCE <span class="hl">WEB</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> More than 19 years of progressive, award-winning web development experience, exceeding expectations of employers and clients. Outstanding artistic creativity, company loyalty, communication skills, and unique ability to work in a team or as its' leader. Successfully completed a cutting-edge Web Development Boot Camp, focusing on advanced coding and software technologies, ie. Ruby on Rails, Ruby, Ajax, JavaScript. Work Experience FREELANCE WEB DEVELOPER January 2017 to Present Designed a new and entirely custom logo that conveyed the client's personality, style and business acumen resulting in significant attention at industry events.  Successfully created a corporate web site designed to convey goals, history and company legacy.  Built a web site in Squarespace to take advantage of the content management system and functionality so client can make updates without intervention. Web site goal is to generate sponsorship and memorialize events to honor the business's history and legacy. WEB DEVELOPER/GRAPHIC DESIGNER Signature Control Systems - Irvine, CA December 2016 to April 2018 Managed corporate web site including development of product "microsites" and web page development to support new WiFi and other product launches.  App UX development including engaging graphic elements and unique icon design.  Graphic design of all product logos and labels. All product document design which include sell sheets, tech spec documents and catalogs. FREELANCE WEB DEVELOPER March 2007 to November 2016 Showgirl Legacy - Designed and developed ShowgirlLegacy.org, including an animated intro piece. The site is mobile-ready and utilizes code to detect current use OS, allowing for content to display in accordance with OSX/Windows standards.  Worked on a contract basis for Brandtastic as a Senior Developer on several client web sites including:  • Garbage Pail Kids - Topps. Hired as project lead to build the iconic brand interactive website/Simworld. This included original character and environment illustrations, animations and coded back-end functionality which allowed a login and progression memory.  • Jay Jay the Jet Plane - Porchlight Entertainment. Designed and developed their web site.  • Hilton Hotels - Creation of animated ads which released together with Hilton Hotel's, "Travel Should Rock Your Soul" television commercial campaign. Challenges included animations matching the TV spot as well as streaming music integration into the ads. SENIOR WEB DESIGNER & DEVELOPER The Buddy Group - Irvine, CA February 2005 to February 2007 Responsible for the development of web site design, banner ads, animation, functionality, performance testing, campaign build-out, client Q & A and final product delivery. Clients include:  • McDonald's - Project Lead for Happy Meal web site. Designed and developed each site based on specific promotions with Pirates of the Caribbean, Build-A-Bear, Dragonball-Z and Pixar's Cars.  • Star Wars - Lucas Arts/Kenner. Completed storyboard concept design and development of the toy's animated banner ads.  • SpongeBob SquarePants - Nickelodeon. Project Lead for a promotion including a website, animated ads, and virtual "toys".  • Chronicles of Narnia - Disney Studios. Team member on the development of a Chronicles of Narnia online video game release in support of the theatrical movie release and promotion at McDonald's. SENIOR WEB DESIGNER & DEVELOPER Visual Perspectives Internet - Irvine, CA August 1999 to January 2005 Created web designs and Flash content for various clients including:  • Royal Caribbean - Designed and developed an interactive DVD presentation for mall touch-screen kiosks. This presentation impressed and enchanted with very convincing water effects which appeared to be video, but was, in fact, created by me using various animation techniques.  • Strawberry Shortcake - TCFC. Completely designed and developed a highly esteemed and award-winning web site for the re-release of the popular children's character brand Strawberry Shortcake.  • Harry Potter & The Sorcerer's Stone - Warner Bros. Studios. Concept and development of a full screen animated advertisement for the Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone DVD release. Links http://danrollans.net