.NET Developer .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> .NET Developer - Full Stack Chino Hills, CA Benefiting from 3 years of data analysis and 8 years of .NET programming experience, currently working as a full-time web developer, building data-driven web applications using the latest .NET technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience .NET Developer Full Stack - Rancho Cucamonga, CA September 2018 to Present Helped saving the new company public-facing website project from missing the deadline, using ASP.NET MVC, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery SQL, and SiteCore. (https://www.iehp.org)  Created the online registration to the Inland Empire Regional Health Technology Summit. It attracted 300 regional healthcare executives to register for this event, using WordPress, HTML, third-party plugin, CSS. (https://healthtechsummit.iehp.org/)  Crafted Member Resolution Portal to help backend users resolving various database issues, using ASP.NET MVC, SignalR, Web API.  Authored a data-ingestion console application for migrating data from MS SQL into ElasticSearch, using Microsoft Task Parallel Library, C#, ElasticSearch API. Web Developer Full Stack February 2016 to September 2018 Web Developer (Full Stack) Inter Valley Health Plan - Pomona, CA November 2014 to February 2016 Pomona, CA  Created the member portal for the company from scratch, saving the company hundreds of dollars each month on printing EOBs and other member documents by helping members to sign up on paperless statements.  Currently working on the company's first mobile app to grant members mobile access to our services by taking the advantage of mobile features such as GPS and camera.  Web Developer (Full Stack)  November 2014 to February 2016  Prolacta Bioscience Inc. - City Of Industry, CA  Saved hundreds of working hours by enabling clients to submit their W-9 and ACH forms using e-signature from mobile devices.  Streamlined field study by creating electronic forms hospitals can fill out and submit from the Internet  Rescued and stabilized projects which were at the verge of failure. Web Developer Epic Management, L.P - Redlands, CA November 2012 to November 2014 Developed a complete portal framework solution from scratch, personal effort.  Built many Intranet applications from design to deployment, covering all aspects of front-end to back-end development.  Always on the lookout for new technologies and best practices that may better serve business goals.  Proactively shared knowledge and techniques with coworkers. Web Developer Epic Management, L.P - Irvine, CA August 2011 to September 2012 Took over the whole website only after a month on the job, using ASP.NET, C#, SQL SERVER 2008.  Successfully completed development projects under extremely short deadline.  Added more value to the business by recommending new techniques such as AJAX, XML lookup data files.  Created sophisticated functionalities such as RSS aggregator, video search, CMS, and newsletter creator. Data Analyst Kaiser Permanente - Downey, CA May 2008 to August 2011 Saved the company 80% of maintenance cost on ETL automation by rewriting the VB program.  Served ad hoc financial reports using VB.NET.  Self-initiated automation projects on script generation, script updating, and script running processes.  Managed over 15,000 ETL artifacts on a daily basis and responsible for ETL of the nation's largest data  warehouse.  Provided financial, pharmaceutical and demographic related reports to assist upper-management decision-making.  Earned monthly recognition every year and twice in 2011.  Honored to present job improvement to the department. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information System in Computer Information System California State Polytechnic University June 2007 Bachelor's Skills ASP.NET, C#, JAVASCRIPT, SQL, .Net, Jquery, WCF, MVC, Angular, CSS3, HTML 5 Additional Information SDLC, Agile, OOP, Design pattern, jQuery, AJAX, Communication, coordination, analytical skills,  C#, ASP.NET MVC, SQL Server 2012, LINQ, JavaScript, TypeScript, CSS3, Angular 2+  SignalR, MVVM, Web API, IIS 7.5, Xamarin, ElasticSearch    Technical Skills  Skills Experience Total Years Last Used  SQL Advanced 8 2019  C# Advanced 8 2019  JavaScript Advanced 6 2019  ASP.NET Advanced 6 2019  Soft Skills  Team player, highly motivated, self-initiative, quick learner