PHP Developer PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> PHP Developer Bellevue, WA LAMP/ WEB DEVELOPER specializing in PHP, MySQL, and JS/jQuery, plus plus other languages/technologies. Experience taking projects through the development cycle from spec to deployment and in fast-paced environments. Bachelor's degree in Computer Science. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PHP Developer Carney, Inc - Alexandria, VA January 2018 to Present • Hourly single-project contract for DHS - Office of Accessible Systems & Technology (OAST).  • Updated online Trusted Tester Exam for Section 508 disability compliance so exam answers and testable HTML pages are randomized and persistent for each user.  • Prototype completed in April, then stayed on to build final version with expanded scope: new testing parameters, multiple exam types (practice, partial, final), new admin maintenance pages.  • Coded in PHP, JS/jQuery, CSS, and MySQL in a LAMP environment.  • Moved to Seattle area in May 2018, worked remotely from home. Web Developer A-TEK, Inc - McLean, VA October 2016 to November 2017 • Contracted to develop and maintain internal Data Management (DM) Tool, which provides a web-based interface for Library of Congress employees to import, export, and edit metadata for library collections.  • Worked in PHP, JS/jQuery, and Perl in a LAMP environment.  • Improved validation and reporting on XML/CSV import process for quicker troubleshooting.  • Upgraded code base from PHP 5.3 to 7.0.  • Added new metadata fields and improved import/export performance on large datasets.  • CMMI Level 3 Appraisal Team Member. Web Developer AMC Networks - New York, NY October 2012 to May 2015 • Developed and maintained code for all of AMC Networks' Wordpress-based sites, including AMC.com, IFC.com, Wetv.com, Sundance.tv, IFCFilms.com, and IFCCenter.com. Addressed tickets from these clients in a timely manner.  • Used code bases in PHP/MySQL and jQuery in LAMP environment. Source control was SVN and eventually Git.  • Worked with front-end developer to create redesigned site for DOC NYC film festival.  • Interfaced with Brightcove Media API to update video functionality, and added new cable providers to TV Everywhere full episodes.  • Integrated asynchronous cross-server requests and 3rd party code, such as API hooks for the Sundance phone app. Software Developer truTV/Turner Broadcasting - New York, NY October 2008 to May 2012 • Initially hired to develop a new company Intranet in MS Sharepoint 2007 using ASP.NET. Collaborated with truTV's IT dept for successful launch.  • Role evolved into PHP developer and Red Hat Linux/MySQL sysadmin, with some Jquery front-end coding. Heavy emphasis on web performance, including static file and APC caching.  • Involved in template and back-end development in Interwoven Teamsite CMS using Perl and XML to output front-end code.  • Interfaced with Turner corporate and 3rd-party APIs to implement trutv.com video projects such as TV Everywhere. Web Developer Bel-Red Web Consulting - Seattle, WA April 2005 to March 2006 • Developed code for a variety of clients on deadline. Adapted daily to new projects in JSP, PHP, XML/XSL, MySQL, and additional languages in both Windows and LAMP environments.  • Primarily worked on company's biggest client, Victoria Clipper. Web Developer AuntMinnie.com/IMV - Tucson, AZ July 2000 to February 2005 Apr 2006 - July 2008    • Developed and maintained front- and back-ends of leading radiology news portal and its spinoff sites. Worked with a small group of developers and designers to support editorial and ad sales teams.  • Primary languages: ASP/VBScript, SQL, Javascript. Secondary languages: ASP.NET, Perl, VB.  • Heavily involved in stat reporting. Parsed ad views, clicks, page views, and additional data out of large site log files via Perl into database tables, which were displayed using large SQL queries on ASP pages. Provided sales team with user demographics and order processing system.  • Wrote Perl code with the ability to send more than 100,000 emails to users via multiple pipes. Wrote VB executables for scheduled maintenance tasks.  • Upon return to company in 2006, focused on ASP.NET coding as part of the site's evolution from ASP. Created .NET pages that return XML data to be used in lead designer's dynamic Flash apps. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Colorado - Boulder, CO Skills PHP, Javascript, MySQL, Jquery Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cp3fyg8ib8b6lu0d Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Simple code samples may be found via www.mikebarklage.com.