Sr. Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Developer - HMS Dallas, TX Work Experience Sr. Developer HMS March 2019 to Present • Orchestrated working relationship with Executive wing team members through consistently gathering requirements for a project outline and project cost.  • Executed UX Stories to create wireframe pages that conveyed client needs through user interface and user experience.  • Administered website code to CMS - Static - and Application sites through developed  programming languages such as HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript languages (Front End  Dev).  • Integrated user testing utilizing in browser tools, mobile frameworks, and peer review to launch websites and company initiatives via testing/production environments.  • Accelerated the design process by providing UI experience and UX experience in tandem with website development to consistently launch concepts from wireframe to  tested development conditions.  • Influenced junior developers by peer reviews with positive feedback to assess possible  improvements in syntax utilizing development tools. UX Designer - Developer BNSF Railway February 2018 to March 2019 • Created dynamic web content for the internal and external BNSF Web environment for responsive and intuitive for end users  • Developed UI/UX Wireframe prototypes for clients utilizing user stories for robust web  pages.  • Developed iterations of web pages and applications from prototype to production  using agile work principles.  • Successful support of baseline workflow to include managing content requests in SharePoint, TeamSite and other enterprise CMS frameworks.  • Collaborated with clients using agile methodologies and BI research to scope page  redesigns for prototyping and wireframing. Web UI/UX Developer T-Syste m Inc June 2016 to December 2017 • Created marketing collateral including websites, emails, videos, presentations, brochures, banners, posters, trade-show booths and social media campaigns.  • Developed a corporate wide style library to promote consistent product and marketing strategies.  • Implemented social media strategy along with supporting marketing collateral that  increased the online engagement by 5%.  • Designed prototypes to A/B Test future include landing pages, emails, and implementation of responsive redesign.  • Refactored websites to increase SEO/SEM which resulted in increased leads for the website.  • Responsible for update and maintenance of existing website.    Awards and Acknowledgements  • T-System CHART Award Employee of the Quarter  • Lynda Social Media ROI Certificate  • Lynda Social Media Marketing Twitter - LinkedIn - Facebook  • Lynda Responsive HTML Email Certificate  • Prior Service US Army  • CodeAcademy UI/UX Pro Intensive Certification Education Bachelor's Skills JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, CMS, UI, SHAREPOINT, HTML5, UX, jQuery, WORDPRESS, UX DESIGN, SEO, Front End, CSS3, Front-End Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Specialist