Senior Web Applications Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Applications Developer - Textile Management Assoc Cleveland, TN Senior Full Stack Web Developer specializing in all aspects of web development. Experienced with all stages of the development cycle for dynamic web projects. Well-versed in numerous programming languages including PHP, ColdFusion, C#, JavaScript, HTML, CSS SQL, and MySQL. Strong background in project management and customer relations. Work Experience Senior Web Applications Developer Textile Management Assoc - Dalton, GA September 2014 to Present Textile Management Associates  Senior Web Applications Developer  Dalton, Georgia  September 2014 - Present  In my current role, I am responsible for the development and maintenance of 26 websites, most of which are built with WordPress, 6 CRM solutions and 1 mobile application.  The CRM solutions are heavily customized versions of SuiteCRM and directly interact with an AS/400 system. They are used for lead to quote tracking and tracking carpet orders.  The WordPress sites include static sites as well as E-Commerce sites. Here are a few examples:  http://www.cmhospitality.com  http://www.synlawngolf.com  http://www.signatureflooring.com  The mobile application is used by truck drivers to track when they need to pick up various trailers and where they need to go. This allows the dispatchers to know at all times, where the drivers and trailers are.  My other responsibilities include managing all of our web and data servers. These are all Linux based servers.  In this role, I utilize the following technologies on a daily basis:    PHP WordPress Javascript  React JS MySQL Apache  Node.js PM2 Linux  VB.net C# MSSQL  Laravel Docker Senior Web Applications Developer Gable Point LLC - Chattanooga, TN July 2012 to September 2014 In this role, I was responsible for the development of a custom built e-commerce platform as well as building and maintaining the company intranet from the ground up.  The e-commerce platform was initially built using ASP.NET with C# and was recently converted to PHP with MSSQL as the data platform. The intranet is built using PHP with MSSQL as the data platform.  My other responsibilities include managing 3 web servers and 1 database server. All the servers are MS Server 2008.  In this role, I utilize the following technologies on a daily basis:    PHP ASP.NET C#  MSSQL WordPress Codeigniter  ASANA SQL Server Manager IIS  JavaScript Windows Server Management    While I am not currently employed by Gable Point full time, I still do occasional contract work for them. Director of Web Services Life Care Centers of America - Cleveland, TN July 2007 to June 2012 While at LCCA I was responsible for development and maintenance for all of Life Care's forward facing web marketing sites which consist of 232 sites, as well as a sharepoint intranet and an internal e-commerce solution. Before leaving, I converted Life Care's 232 facility websites to WordPress utilizing the Multi-Site feature.  Other responsibilities include SEO, managing backups, as well as keeping our web servers up to date.  In this role, I utilize the following technologies on a daily basis:    PHP MySQL MSSQL  ASP.NET Classic ASP ColdFusion  HTML Javascript WordPress  Subversion Apache IIS 7.0  Linux Web Application Developer HGW LLC - Knoxville, TN April 2006 to July 2007 HGW LLC  Web Application Developer  April 2006 - July 2007  In this role I was on a team of developers in charge of converting a safety tracking and training application from ColdFusion to ASP.NET. This application is used by all branches of the military as well as HomeLand Security and the Coast Guard.  My main responsibilities were redeveloping the online training component as well as the reporting engine.  Some technologies used in this role:    ColdFusion ASP.NET Classic ASP  MSSQL Team Foundation Server Education BA in Marketing University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL August 1990 to May 1994 Skills ASP (8 years), Javascript (10+ years), Linux (9 years), MySQL (9 years), PHP (10+ years), C# (2 years), ReactJS (2 years), NodeJS (2 years), Laravel (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS    PHP  ColdFusion  MySQL  MSSQL  HTML  CSS  Javascript  C#  ASP.NET  Linux  NodeJS