Team Lead Team Lead Team Lead - AWC Software Pvt. Ltd US Seeking a key role in a growth-oriented organization where I can utilize my knowledge and experience together with my innovation and versatility and my ability to work well with others. Work Experience Team Lead AWC Software Pvt. Ltd January 2017 to Present Domain management 2006 to Present • Since 2006, having 12 years of extensive hands on experience on UI Development.  • An experienced team player with excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently under pressure.  • Good knowledge of hosting applications like CPanel Management, Domain management.  • Client-Side Development: HTML4, HTML5, CSS2/3 JavaScript, XML, AJAX, DOM, JSON/JSONP Performance optimization, Responsive Design and Adaptive Design  • Client-Side Libraries/Frameworks: JQUERY, JQUERY MOBILE, Angular.JS, Node.JS, Vue.JS.  • Server-Side Development: PHP, Java, VB.NET, Node JS, RESTFUL Services. Secure services With Third Party using OAuth.  • Database: MySQL, MS SQL 2005, Oracle.  • Others: WordPress, Drupal, Web API, Node Modules, Sass etc.  • Methodologies: Object-Oriented Programming (OOP), Design Patterns, Multithreaded and Multiprocessing Programming  • Debugging Tools: Firebug, Developer Toolbar (Firefox/Chrome/IE).  • Development and hosting on the Cloud Platform.  • Working on GitHub for source versioning.  • Fixing issues reported on JIRA (Bug tracking System).  • Communication with clients over on E-mails and calls. Senior UI Developer AWC Software Pvt. Ltd January 2015 to January 2017 Web/UI Developer Emerson Information Technology Solutions Mohali July 2011 to December 2014 Web/UI Developer IDS InfoTech Mohali August 2010 to July 2011 Web/UI Developer Sigma Freudenberg NOK Pvt. Ltd July 2008 to July 2010 Web/UI Developer AdiBackOffice Professionals Ltd July 2006 to July 2008 PROJECTS  Belfuse.com (Next Gen. Web site)    Description:  Bel helps make global connectivity a reality by manufacturing electronic components for the computer, networking, telecommunications, transportation and defense/aerospace industries.    Role and Responsibilities:  • Understand the project requirements and communicate with client for enhancing the features.  • Leading technical development of more Junior developers  • Provide estimations/plans and schedule the design deliverables  • Provide design concepts walkthrough to clients  • Assigned coding tasks to various team members.  • Ensured team members stayed on task.  • Contribute to the development effort of each project by leading and working on the continuous improvement activities of build process, design process, software release process and the team estimation process.  • Was responsible for quality of applications delivered for customer orders.  • Directed team meetings to check on progress and plan code direction.  • Attended development work prioritization meetings.    Tools/Technologies:  HTML5 & CSS or SCSS, JavaScript (jQuery, Angular, React, NodeJS, Vue.js), Typescript, Mobile development with Ionic, ReactNative, UI related tools - Gulp and Git. DotCMS, Apache Velocity.    Website URL: http://belfuse.com    Cinch Connectivity Solutions  Description:  Connectivity Solutions, a business of Bel Fuse Group is a leading global manufacturer of connectors, fixed length and flexible cable assemblies, test adapters, optical connectivity and custom solutions. Cinch Connectivity Solutions products support wire line and wireless communications, data networking, Optical Fiber Products, test and measurement, telecomm, broadcast, medical, military, aerospace and harsh environment applications.    Role:  • As a Developer involved in layout Design, Front End User Interface Design, HTML Layouts and Style Sheets.  • As a developer, was mainly involved in the Front End Development and implementation, Java/JSP coding.  • As a team member, was involved in Peer Reviews and Code Walkthroughs of the modules of other team members.  • Worked on Form Validations, Cascading style sheets and DHTML menus  • Rest API integration using Java/Jsp, JSON.  Tools/Technologies:  • HTML5, CSS, JSP, Ajax, jQuery, jQuery Mobile, Bootstrap, JDeveloper  Responsibilities:  • Analyze the Project requirements and feasibility study.  • Discussions with project lead and manager to design solutions to improve business.  • Development and customization of code (JSPs) as per the business requirements.  • Creating media objects and assign them to respective products.  • Adding new products in iStore and Catalog maintenance.  • Creation of documents for the new features and code which I have developed.  • Part of Complete R12 Upgrade (R 11.5.10 t0 R12.1.3), durations the migration of iStore files and setups.  • Implementation of Google Analytics for website tracking.  • Suggesting new design and features with small mockups and demos.  • Redesigned the website home page look and feel from old design to new look and other internal pages.  • Development and implementation of Mobile Website using Bootstrap.  • Chinese Language Implementation and maintenances.  • Responsible for code migration from one instance to another using version control system (PVCS) and Portfolio Management tool (Kintana).    Website URL: https://cinchconnectivity.com    Belpowersolutions  Description:  Bel Power Solutions is one of the largest power supply manufacturers in the world and has a long history of providing leading edge, innovative power solutions. Bel Power Solutions revolutionized power conversion through the introduction of digital power and is an industry leader embracing the Climate Saver Initiative by introducing Platinum-level efficiency front ends for the Datacom market.  Role:  • As a UI Developer involved in layout Design, Front End User Interface Design, HTML Layouts and Style Sheets.  • As a developer, was mainly involved in the Front End Development, website integration.  • As a team member, was involved in Peer Reviews and Code Walkthroughs of the modules of other team members.  • Worked on Form Validations, Cascading style sheets and DHTML menus    Tools/Technologies:  • HTML, CSS, PHP, Ajax, JQuery, Photoshop, Drupal, MySQL    Website URL: http://belpowersolutions.com    Other Projects/Websites  http://www.nicprop.com/ http://www.adibackoffice.com http://www.sfnindia.com  http://www.belfuse.com  http://www.step2step.co.in/  http://cropcare.co.in    http://leadingedgereview.com/  http://www.paradisedecorator.com  http://www.bigscore.in  http://www.otranorge.no  http://www.cascadeindustrial.com  http://www.belpowersolutions.com    http://www.vvsnrf.no  http://www.bestpick.co.uk  http://www.taksoftwares.com  http://www.tuffbolt.com  http://www.toptrakcycle.com  http://www.teachersmania.in Education PG Kurukshetra University 2006 BCA H.P University 2003 Additional Information SKILL PROFILE  Major Skills Minor Skills  Web Development  Technologies,  Frameworks/Libraries    HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, SCSS, jQuery, jQuery Mobile, JSON, Bootstrap, Git, Node JS, Restful API, Angular JS, Grunt, Gulp, Gradle, Vue JS, Apache Velocity, Ionic Framework    Java, JSP, PHP, Rest API integration with third party Server, Oracle Apps, Oracle iStore, React Native    Open Source Word Press, dotCMS Drupal  Databases Oracle10g, 11g, MySQL MS-SQL  Tools/Software Dreamweaver, Edit Plus, PVCS, Kintana, TOAD, CPanel Hosting Management, IntelliJ Idea JDeveloper, Eclipse  Operating Systems Windows, Unix Mac