Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Kingfisher Systems Inc Aldie, VA Profile: Web Developer with 10 years of experience in building private and government sector  websites. Focused primarily on helping agile teams build front-end architecture for large scale CMS  websites or client-side web apps.    SUMMARY    • 10 years of extensive Experience as User Interface/Front End Developer in Developing professional  web applications using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, Bootstrap, Angular JS, PHP.    • Expertise in the AWS components & APIs. Expert working knowledge of Operating Systems  (Windows and Linux). Advanced knowledge of databases (SQL Server and MySQL).    • Good knowledge of application developments using Agile, and DevOps good practices.    • Experience in making Responsive web pages using Bootstrap and media queries, for optimizing  websites for mobile phones, tablets.    • Experience in Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML,  specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C established web standards.    • Experience in Themeing Various applications like Drupal, WordPress, CKAN, JOOMLA etc.    • Experience with Version Control tools like CVS, SVN and GIT for Source Code version  management and merging Source code after intermittent Project releases.    • Experience in creating pixel perfect cross browser compatible sites from PSD's    • Excellent verbal/written communication skills and strong analytical abilities, and can perform well  both independently and as a team player. Work Experience Software Developer Kingfisher Systems Inc November 2016 to Present KINGFISHER SYSTEMS, INC. is a U.S. Government contractor providing support and solutions to the U.S. Government to improve economic and national security. As a Sr. Web Developer my role is to  oversee the front-end effort for the OGP web portfolio sites (acquisition.gov, digital dashboard.gov, app.buyaccessible.gov, idmanagement.gov, section508.gov). Help in creating mockups, as well as do  regular server maintenance and web development.  Responsibilities:  • Help design, code, test, deploy and maintain releases for each application within the client's web  portfolio in accordance with the applicable design guidelines and regulations issued by the client and aligned with customer leadership expectations.  • Experience in working with charting libraries like Google charts, Highcharts, D3.  • Contribute to business development and proposal work, developing client relationships at all levels.  • Mentor juniors and manage the efforts of the front-end website code to support OGP web portfolio  sites  • Develop user stories and incorporate analytics based on user feedback to enhance web portfolio  operations and DME requirements.  • Oversee and review all documentation and testing requirements for security assessment and authorization (A&A) within the applicable Government standards and regulations. Also support all  required testing, including usability testing, accessibility testing, and building testing framework.  • Ensure that PII is not collected from the end user community and work with senior staff to inform  customer of any changes to PII status within the web portfolio.  • Track, monitor and resolve any application layer vulnerabilities in the web portfolio sites.  • Implement Government approved failback protocols and procedures in case of emergencies and work with the customer to test those protocols. Sr. Web Developer REI Systems November 2012 to November 2016 REI provides solutions including web applications, grants systems and open government / transparency  websites. I worked in Data.gov team, the purpose of Data.gov is to increase public access to high value, machine readable datasets generated by the Executive Branch of the Federal Government. My role in  team was to work on themeing aspects of the site as well as working on drupal customizations.    Responsibilities:  • Installing custom modules and working on theming of the site.  • Help in hiring and interviewing new front-end candidates.  • Guiding newly hired candidates to learn system architecture and helping with front-end  development  • Wrote browser specific css rules to make site consistent across all the browsers.  • Worked on responsive layouts wrote jQuery functions and Javascript to enhance site functionality  • Hands on experience of working on responsive layouts.  • Hands on expreince of working on Drupal Views, Panels, Blocks, Rules and custom modules.  • Experience with themeing open source platforms like CKAN, Wordpress.  • Created and modified custom theme templates for wordpress open source platform.  • Expericnce with different css frameworks like Less, Bootstrap etc. PHP Developer The G3 Group April 2010 to November 2012 Founded in 1984, the G3 Group began as a print design company working with a range of local clients.  As early as 1995 the company's focus changed from traditional to interactive media. As a web  developer my responsibilities were develop custom designed shopping cart and content management  systems    Responsibilities:  • Writing HTML, CSS code from scratch, creating static as well as custom themed websites.  • Exporting and importing data into various shopping carts like Magento, Open Cart, Interspire, Prestashop.  • Write custom PHP and Coldfusion code to enhance the functionality and theme structure for websites.  • Created Drupal views and template files for individual pages.  • Extensive knowledge in themeing different CMS and E-commerce solutions like Drupal, Joomla  Magento, Open Cart.  • Installing Custom Modules for various E-commerce solutions.  • Debugging Cross browser issues, fixing javascript conflict issues.  • Converted raw images and layouts from a graphic designer into CSS/XHTML themes.  • Communicated to clients with efficiency and accuracy any progress and/or delays.  • Determined appropriate architecture, and other technical solutions, and made relevant  recommendations to clients.  • Attended client meetings during the sales process and during development. Drupal / Web developer The Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health July 2009 to April 2010 K4health project (www.k4health.org)    Worked as a contractor at division of Johns Hopkins University on their knowledge for health project  funded by USAID. K4Health project is to increase the use and dissemination of evidence-based, accurate and up-to-date information to improve health service delivery and health outcomes worldwide.  The k4health website was made on open source drupal platform my duties were to add functionality  using various modules, create templates.  Responsibilities:  • Solved cross browser issues by modifying CSS.  • Increased database throughput by using memcache, memory resident data store for handling cached  data.  • Expertise in increasing performance of website using both modules and caching at server level.  • Migrated millions of records from one Drupal to other Drupal website.  • Successfully worked on various multilingual environments translated website  (www.globaltobaccocontrol.org) to other languages like Spanish, Russian and Arabic.  • Imported drupal from LAMP environment to WAMP environment, also updated the website  regularly on the Laptop. Education Masters in Software Engineering Stratford University - Falls Church, VA March 2009 Bachelors of Engineering in Engineering Mandsaur Institute of Technology - Mandsaur, Madhya Pradesh July 2006 Skills Cold fusion, Css, Html, Javascript, Php, Git, Jquery, HTML 5, MYSQL