Mobile Developer Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Mobile Developer - UNIV. OF CO HEALTH Edison, NJ Motivated self-starter that carves new technologies and is passionate about software. Dedicated to "learning and growth". Continuously expanding skills via personal/professional applications using cutting edge technology. Diversified experience in project initiation, scope definition, impact assessment, architecture and design, application development, solution implementation and product testing. Excellent interpersonal verbal and written communication skills with proven success in exceeding goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mobile Developer UNIV. OF CO HEALTH July 2018 to Present • Architected / developed the University of Colorado Health Care mobile application for iOS and Android using Xamarin Forms technology.  • Wrapped COTS platform into Xamarin Forms mobile application.  • Implemented mobile application testing suite into Xamarin Test Cloud to ensure full stack testing on over 60 devices. Web Developer ASSURANT MORTGAGE June 2016 to July 2018 • Captured business requirements, architected and implemented enhanced functionality calculating mortgage and insurance payments.  • Architected / implemented enterprise services to manage mortgage and insurance data between various business layers.  • UI implementation displaying calculated results with AngularJS, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript and Node.js. Web Developer P.F. CHANG'S May 2014 to June 2016 • Captured business requirements, architected and implemented enhanced functionality exposing new Loyalty program for all brands.  • Architected and implemented enterprise service bus (Neuron) eliminating a number of one-off applications reducing the manual support efforts by 50%. Mobile Developer ARJOHUNTLEIGH GETINGE GRP April 2013 to May 2014 • Captured business requirements, architected and implemented enhanced functionality within iOS mobile application, using Objective-C, with a SharePoint data backing that calculated hospital equipment needs based upon prior patient information.  • Orchestrated product deployment to internal users. Web Developer OUTSELL March 2012 to April 2013 • Implemented advanced sales and marketing application that allowed expansion of current client base by 25%.  • Implemented software that allowed end-user flexibility, replacing manual steps of a marketing campaign creation.  • Enhanced end-user reporting functionality by 40%. Xamarin Mobile Team Lead ALPHA RECON - Colorado Springs, CO February 2011 to March 2012 Alpha Recon is an asset security company that provides risk ratings for persons, builds, or assets based upon the security events that as occurring in the geographical area.    • Performed requirements gathering, transforming them into epics, user stories and development tasks.  • Guided project management in planning and project structure  • Architected / implemented the Xamarin framework including Xamarin project structure, implementation of Simple iOC, Dependency Injection, Firebase and AWS Pinpoint App Center Pipeline and Crash Reporting etc. following best practices for an enterprise application Xamarin Mobile Team Lead FOOD SERVICES OF AMERICA - Phoenix, AZ January 2010 to February 2011 Food Services of America is a food distribution company that has an internal IT department to create custom applications to assist in the ordering and delivery of food and supplies to restaurants and stores.    • Worked with the business to create requirements, transforming them into user stories while managing the team's workload and schedule  • Architected / developed the Order Management mobile application for iOS and Android using Xamarin Forms technology.  • Lead a remote team of developers using Scrum techniques.  • Create and executed automated testing ensuring application coverage  • Architected / implemented AppDynamics & AppCenter recording crash information and analytics  • Architected and implemented Push Notification and Deep Linking  • Maintained pipelines and build definitions  • Pushed releases to the Apple App Store and Goggle Play Store every two weeks Web Developer Neudesic, LLC - Denver, CO April 2009 to January 2010 • Performed requirements gathering, design and implementation of product requirements.  • Assisted in the creation / development of the Order Management web application using AngularJS, TypeScript, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node.js iOS Developer BLUE CROSS March 2008 to April 2009 • Preformed requirements gathering, architected and designed user friendly interface that exposed health events, claim information, and personal information to a mobile audience.  • Implemented an iOS mobile application written in Objective-C for the insured individual to interact with their insurance policy. Android Developer ZONAR FLEET MGMT CO February 2007 to March 2008 • Captured user interaction requirements for the design of an Android mobile data communication application that automated the freight trucking reporting, communications, and navigation processes.  • Lead offshore design team for Android application.  • Implemented front-end user interface functionality using Java for Android application. Web Developer Newmont Mining January 2006 to February 2007 • Architected and implemented a ground-breaking application for mining exploration allowing for data to be transformed from Excel spreadsheet and paper documents into a centralized website with data plotting on Google maps.  • Using JavaScript, HTML, jQuery, and Google Maps  • Won Microsoft "Most Innovated" award for Exploration application.  • Configured SharePoint 2015 and migrated documents from file share, implemented information gathering functionality within SharePoint. Education BS in Computer Information Systems COLORADO CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY Certification XAMARIN UNIVERSITY Skills Angularjs (2 years), Aws (1 year), Css (2 years), Javascript (3 years), jquery (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS  • C# / .NET / Xamarin / Objective C / Java / AngularJS / JavaScript / jQuery / Node.js / TypeScript  • HTML5 / Knockout / CSS / ASP.NET / LESS / SQL / MVVM / MVC / Neuron (ESB)  • Azure / AWS  • Visual Studio / xCode / Git / VSTS / SourceTree / Neuron / Scrum / Agile / Photoshop