Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web & Client Server Developer Atlanta, GA Senior Programmer with 20+ years of extensive hands-on IT experience in Internet/Intranet Web,Client/Server, Database Applications and developing, testing, implementing and documenting of applications.    1+ years of experience in ASP.Net, C# & VB.Net and 1+ year in AJAX.     18+ years of experience in Classic ASP, SQL Server, HTML, JavaScript, VBScript, DHTML, ADO, CDO, VSS, CSS, Visual Studio, IIS & Windows.     12+ years developing and implementing applications using Visual Basic (VB6), COM and COM+.     Experienced working with Crystal Reports for 3+ years.     Worked 15+ years with SQL Server extensively for database operations creating Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, SQL Jobs and User Defined Functions.     Extensive Report creation through HTML, Excel attachments, Crystal Reports, VB COM Batches, SQL Queries and Batches.     Highly motivated self-starter with Excellent Communication, Problem Solving Skills and committed to learning new technologies.     Ability to work under pressure and manage project tasks with changing priorities and tight deadlines and can work either independently or as a part of a team.     Highly committed to work hard and give utmost importance to Customer satisfaction.     Worked for Intel Corporation for 4+ years and got Best Project support award.     Worked on Medicare and 508 compliance project.     Hold Green Card / Permanent Residency in USA, eligible to apply Citizenship. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Web Developer Parker Hannifin Corporation - Andover, MA February 2011 to March 2019 Project: eConfigurator (www.parker.com)    Description:    This is a manufacturing company which manufactures over 4 million different parts with its client presence worldwide. I worked in their IT team supporting in developing and maintaining intranet website called eConfigurator which is used to generate CAD models. I worked primary in frontend development and some backend SQL changes.    Responsibilities:    Development and enhancements to the existing website using Classic ASP, ASP.Net, C#, VB.Net, VB6, HTML, JavaScript, VBScript, AJAX, VSS, DB2 and CSS.    Supporting migration and users. Senior Web Developer Plymouth Rock Assurance - Boston, MA September 2010 to December 2010 Project: PRAC/Palisades (www.prac.com AND www.palisades.com)     Description:     This is an Auto and Home insurance company mostly focused in NJ, MA & CT area. I was a team member developing and maintaining both frontend and backend.     Responsibilities:     Enhancements to the existing website using Classic ASP, VB, COM+, HTML, JavaScript, VBScript, VSS and CSS.     Creating new and making changes to existing stored procedures and views in SQL Server.     Supporting migration and users. Senior Web Developer Bank Of America - Jacksonville, FL December 2009 to August 2010 Project: DART (Daily Alert Reporting and Tracking)     Description:     This is an intranet website used by the Portfolio Managers of Merrill Lynch to track and get alerted on investor transactions every day. I was involved in creating and maintaining most of the front end using Classic ASP and VB Components.     Responsibilities:     New additions and enhancements to the existing website using Classic ASP, VB COM, HTML, JavaScript, VBScript, VSS and CSS.     Involved in making changes and additions to Business and Data layer of VB COM.     Prepared Programmer documents and test documents. Senior Web Developer Department of Commerce - Washington, DC February 2009 to September 2009 Project: HR Management     Description:     This was a federal government project where I worked on one of their HR intranet websites to add few new screens and do changes to existing system as well.     Responsibilities:     Added new screens to existing website using Classic ASP, HTML, JavaScript, VBScript, VSS and CSS.     Involved in making addition and changes to existing SQL Server DB by creating tables and doing data migration.     Prepared Programmer documents and test documents. Senior Web Developer TBC Corporation - Memphis, TN December 2008 to February 2009 Project: TbcCorp.com     Description:     This was a short-term project I was hired to make changes to www.tbccorp.com and some other sister concern websites like tirekingdom.com. The website contains all the details about the company products, product locations, suppliers and many more related to the company.     Responsibilities:     Made changes and enhancements to many of the screens of the website using Classic ASP, HTML, JavaScript, VBScript, VSS and CSS.     Involved in making changes to Stored Procedures and writing SQL Scripts.     Prepared Test documents and Programmer documents. Senior Web Developer CGI Group - Fairfax, VA February 2008 to October 2008 Project: Medicare.gov     Description:     This is a Federal government project which provides direct Internet access to health plans, prescription drug plans, rights and protections to help people with Medicare review their coverage options, prepare to enroll in a new plan if they choose. It also allows viewing claims information, access online forms and publications, and receiving important messages from Medicare and preventive health information - 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It’s a 4 tier application using ASP for the front end, VB for Business logic layer and Data access layer and SQL Server for the backend.     Responsibilities:     Developed interactive screens for Compare Medicare, Compare Hospitals and Find a Supplier Modules using Classic ASP, HTML, JavaScript, VBScript, VSS and CSS.     Validated programs for 508 Compliance.     Involved writing backend SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, SQL Batches and Triggers.     Created Methods and made enhancements to Business logic layer and Data access layer of VB COM components.     Prepared Test documents, Programmer documents and User documents. Senior Web Developer NetResults Corporation - Palo Alto, CA April 2007 to February 2008 Project: Net Bug Tracker     Description:     This project is about developing and maintenance of bug tracking tool used by various companies to track their day to day issues. Tracking to ensure that issues (tasks, action items, enhancement requests, etc) don’t fall through the cracks. Process enforcement, notifications, alerts and escalations. Status and reports. Accountability and audit trail.     Responsibilities:     Involved in interacting with System Users and taking requirements.     Prepared Program specifications.     Developed interactive screens for Bug Tracking Tool using Classic ASP, HTML, JavaScript, VBScript, VSS and CSS.     Involved writing backend SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, SQL Batches and Triggers.     Developed programs involved in sending User E-Mail Notifications using CDO and SQL Email Objects.     Made enhancements to VB COM components.     Prepared Test documents, Programmer documents and User documents.     Coordinated Migration and Production Support. Web Developer CompuMentor - San Francisco, CA July 2006 to March 2007 Project: TechSoupStock .org     Description:     TechSoupStock.org is an E-Commerce website where Non-Profit Organizations all over US and Canada buy most of their software and hardware needs that are donated by Microsoft, DELL, Cisco, Intel, Symantec, Intuit, Oracle and many other technology companies. These software and hardware are sold at 90% discount to Non-Profit Organizations.     Responsibilities:     Involved in gathering User requirements.     Involved in enhancing Restriction Engine of the website using Classic ASP, HTML, JavaScript and VBScript.     Developed programs related to Organization and User information.     Created Reports using ASP and SQL Queries.     Involved in designing and coding of Contact Us Module.     Involved in writing SQL Stored Procedures, Triggers and Views.     Prepared Test and Programmers documents. Web Developer Intel Corporation - Santa Clarita, CA September 2000 to June 2006 Project: Capital Investment System (Portfolio Management)     I worked multiple times as a contractor at Intel Corp between 2000-2006.    Capital Investment System is an Intranet website developed for the Portfolio managers of Intel Corporation accessing the site across the world. The site is used to manage the investments made by Intel Corporation in various companies, scheduling meetings for various steps of Portfolio management, making proposals and deals for the investments. The site also included Finance, Legal & Auditing related functionality.     Responsibilities:     Involved in gathering Customer requirements from Intel Capital user.     Involved in Analysis, Design and Development of interactive screens for Deals, Proposal, Company, Contacts, Financials, Equity, Loan, Exchange and Scheduling using Classic ASP, ASP.Net, C#, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, VBScript, CSS, VSS, Visual Studio.     Created complex Reports using SQL Queries and displayed in HTML and Excel formats.     Extracted user data from Excel to SQL Server using DTS and migrated into SQL Server by writing complex Stored Procedure logics.     Developed Offline tool using VB 6.0, MS Access 2000 and Crystal Reports.     Developed Business logics through Stored Procedures, Triggers and Views.     Developed NT Batches and Backend Batches using VB COM and SQL Server Jobs.     Developed Security system for the site.     Created Chart Effects like Pie chart, Bar chart and Line chart using ChartFX.     Converted Dropdown controls into Dynamic Dropdown controls using AJAX.     File Uploads using Soft Artisans FileUp object.     Exported data from Intranet site to extranet site using XML.     Developed many programs involved in sending E-mail notifications, Report attachments to users using CDO, CDONTS and SQL Mail objects.     Prepared Test documents, Programmer documents and User documents.     Co-ordinated offshore team in Bangalore, India.     Coordinated Testing, Implementation and Maintenance support. Web Developer Cable Vision Corporation - Westbury, NY July 2003 to October 2003 Project: Inventory & HR Management     Description:     This is an Intranet website developed for Cable Vision Corporation. The sites primary objective was to maintain the inventory of cable vision’s subsidiary company WIZ’s stocks. Also it involved in most of the HR related programs.     Responsibilities:     Developed programs for Inventory and HR Management using Classic ASP, HTML, JavaScript and VBScript.     Developed Business logics through Stored Procedures and Views.     Created Reports using SQL and HTML.     Testing, Fixing bugs and Supporting QA team.     Prepared documentation for all aspects of the project. Web Developer Netgencard - New York, NY January 2000 to June 2000 Project: Netgencard.com/Solspark.com     Description:     This is an E-Commerce Internet site for Teens, very innovative concept site that was heavily supported by Discover Credit Card and Sony Corporation. Through this site, teens can buy anything at any site or shop, both On-line and Off-line, using their parents funded Netgen Card or a unique type of Teen Credit Card, just like any other Credit Card.     Responsibilities:     Involved in developing programs for Teen Registration, Parent Registration, Payment Process, Gift Center, Personal Account Maintenance and Stores Maintenance using Classic ASP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, VBScript, CSS, VSS and Visual Interdev.     Created VB COM Batches which was the middle layer.     Involved in daily Builds and supported Migration.     Worked on SMTP Email messaging.     Tested and fixed bugs and supported QA team.     Involved in preparing documentation. Web Developer Deloitte & Touche - Jersey City, NJ September 1999 to December 1999 Project: Portfolio Management     Description:     Financial Consultants of Merrill Lynch used this Intranet application. It helps them in managing and appreciating the investments made by their clients. It keeps track of actual cash flow, personal yield curve, maturity sector modeling, maintaining virtual and real worksheets. Dynamic generation of tabular and graphical view.     Responsibilities:     Involved in developing programs for Equity Work Sheets, Fixed Income Work Sheets, Mutual Fund Exchange, Active List and Portfolio Summary using Classic ASP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and VSS.     Wrote SQL Queries using Access.     Created Pie, Bar and Line Chart Effects using ChartFX.     Created HTML based Reports.     Worked on deployment and support.     Prepared all documentation required for the project. Web Developer LogiCare Inc - Hicksville, NY June 1999 to August 1999 Project: BargainBid.com     Description:     BargainBid.com is an On-line Auction site where a customer can bid and Purchase a product. Once a user bids, he is assigned a bid id and later the user can increase the bid value and finally order for the product. At any time a user can know his order status, bid status, quantity, price, mode of shipping or he can cancel his bid/order. This site has many other features like browsing through Product Details, User Bid Folio, Registration, FAQ and User Help & Suggestions.     Responsibilities:     Developed Order and Customer module using Classic ASP and other web tools.     Involved in changes and enhancements to Bid Details, Bid Cancellation, and Customer Tracking.     Created backend Stored Procedures using SQL Server 7.0.     Worked on deployment, documentation and support. Programmer Pentafour - India May 1997 to May 1999 Project: Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)    Description:     This Project is used to automate the entire company’s operations of TVS Suzuki, a leader in two wheeler vehicles in India. It was categorized in four modules namely Materials, Operations, Marketing and Finance. These four modules had the major systems like Goods Receipt Note, Purchase Order, Bill of Materials, Automatic Material Issue Ticket, Budgetary Control, Automatic Bill Matching, Costing, Bank Payment Voucher, General Ledgers, Trial Balance, Profit and Loss Account and Balance Sheet.     Technical Features of the Project:     Extensive usage of ActiveX Controls, Classes, ActiveX DLLs, Stored Procedures, Views, Defaults, Rules, Triggers, Task Scheduling, Reports through Stored Procedures and Views and COM Objects     Responsibilities:     Developed Client/Server based programs for Customer interaction, modification and implementation of Finance Module, Budgetary Control, Costing and Material Accounting using VB 5.0.     Created VB COM batches for middle layer.     Developed various tools for Costing calculations using VB 5.0.     Developed 100+ Reports using Crystal Reports, Stored Procedures and Visual Basic.     Created 100+ Stored Procedures, Triggers and Views using SQL Server 6.5.     Created many re-usable ActiveX Controls.     Coordinated with other modules like Marketing, Materials and Operations in terms of program integration and knowledge sharing.     Involved in User manual and Programmer manual preparation. Education Certification in Computers in Computer Science in Computer Science Software Solutions Institute June 1995 to May 1996 MBA A.M. Jain College June 1993 to May 1995 Certification in Computers in Computer Science National Institute of Information Technology (NIIT) June 1993 to May 1994 Skills ASP.Net (3 years), C# (3 years), VB.Net (3 years), AJAX (1 year), Classic ASP (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), VBScript (10+ years), Visual Basic (VB6) (10+ years), COM (5 years), COM+ (3 years), DHTML (3 years), ADO.Net (5 years), ADO (10+ years), CDO (4 years), VSS (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Visual Studio (10+ years), Visual Interdev (10+ years), IIS (10+ years)