Web Designer/ Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Designer/ Developer Wallingford, PA I am inspired by the web and graphic design field and the possibilities that it can bring. The ability to have a vision for something and make it come alive on a computer screen. Since 2005, it has been my pleasure to not only achieve every goal for a project, but to exceed them and take them to new levels. I give them the professional touch that it needs, but also a creative flare with style to stand out from the rest of the pack. My goal is to obtain a full time position to further my knowledge and passion for making websites. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer/ Developer Hoff Communications - Lansdowne, PA July 2007 to July 2019 • Maintain and update current websites on a daily basis for various web management needs. Updating and creating page content, blog posts, photo galleries, email forms, etc.  • Provide in-house/on-site training sessions to clients for website maintenance in WordPress. PDF provided via Graphic Designer. Field questions via email/phone as needed.  • Create fully functional websites from the ground up in Wordpress which feature a plethora of widgets, plugins, posts, pages, themes, custom editing to fit clients needs, etc.  • Work as a part of a team or on own. Minimal direction needed to dive into new projects.  • Log all work hours in specific detail for billing purposes daily.  • Create & launch eNewsletters to mass email lists using in-house program, Constant Contact, phpList.  • Create original Videos in AfterEffects. 30 second commercials advertising clients needs. Using mainly Photo Manipulations & Animation graphics, sound. Experience with Premiere Pro.  • Mastery of Adobe Photoshop. Ability to slice images, ImageReady. Ability to take mockups and create templates for web.  • Successfully manage and complete multiple projects at a time. Strong time-management skills while giving updates as needed.  • Expert knowledge of HTML/CSS/JavaScript/jQuery/PHP.  • Knowledge of flexible grids and responsive web development as well as mobile.  • Strong understanding of best practices in design, code, and SEO.   • Expert experience working with custom WordPress templates or child themes. Editing themes to clients specific needs. Custom post templates, custom fields, etc.  • Strong debugging and problem solving skills. Ability to monitor and analyze web site problems and suggest possible solutions and priority levels.  • Experience maintaining a professional work ethic and attitude, while supporting and encouraging an enjoyable work environment.  • Ability to work for cross-browser and cross-platform compatibility, mobile issues.  • Knowledge of commonly-used concepts and internet production best practices.  • Expert attention to detail & organized. Keeping up to date records of all logins possible: Hosting/WordPress/FTP/Database, Social Media Accounts, etc.  • Make periodic/as needed backups of websites, FTP, content, etc. Install plugins as needed. Importing & Exporting of .xml & .sql files.  • Strong writing and communication skills for both technical and non-technical audiences.  • Experience with implementation of and adherence to ADA/ Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, Section 508.  • Ability to learn and adapt to a new environment/process/programming, constantly learning new programs, code, platforms. Keeping updated on new web technologies.  • Ability to restore entire websites via backup files, create beta versions for redesigns. Education Certificate in Graphic Design and Animation The Chubb Institute - Springfield, PA July 2006 to July 2007 Skills HTML, Javascript, Bootstrap, PHP, CSS, Web Design, Web Services, JQuery, MySQL, SSL, After Effects, Photoshop, SEO, Marketing, Video Production, Wordpress, Training, ADA, HTML 5, CSS3, Premiere Pro, Databases, Project Management, Convio, Constant Contact, phpList, Section 508, Tutorials, Themes, Plugins, Widgets, Modules, Joomla, Templates, ImageReady, Content Management Systems Links http://linkedin.com/in/gina-disanto Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/k7-nq2fhmdmooob Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.