Content Pilot Content Pilot Content Pilot - Specialize in Proposal Pilot and CP Deals and Cases Plano, TX Work Experience Content Pilot Specialize in Proposal Pilot and CP Deals and Cases November 2015 to Present Client Service Specialist  Specialize in Proposal Pilot and CP Deals and Cases implementations for Law Firms marketing content to generate new revenue for law firms and increases the productivity of the marketing and business development teams.  • On boarding new clients post launch support    • Oversee client support of custom changes in their system platforms from small one-off changes to full project sprint updates to how they consume content to generating BD marketing items for the firm.    • Customize building of Proposal generator Word templates and Print to PDF of marketing material from public web to internal content management.    • Managing firms largest national and international clients post launch support including tracking of wellness hours and client invoicing.    • Collaborate with my clients to become an integral part of their team and work with them to identify the best implementation of Proposal Pilot and CP Deals and Cases that will ensure quality and targeted marketing needs.    • Support ticket tracking through Axosoft for workflow processes to ensure delivery of update on time and functional to client production server    • Project management process tracking through Wrike    • Waterfall methodology Web Developer Haynes and Boone, LLP March 2008 to November 2015 Develop internal web applications for firm built upon Coldfusion 10 CFC's, PHP, ASP and SQL Server 2008 database interaction. Applications include:  • Internal Portal Support - Maintain and update existing code on internal portal system. Users have access to different application gadgets that access multiple servers including Active Directory, 3E, Elite. Gadgets are supported in PHP, ASP, and Coldfusion    • Business Process Workflow - Develop workflow process with in the Metastorm Designer that manages workflow throughout the Firm of process like File/Client closing and New Business Intake. Design GUI front end forms and backend coding in C#.    • IntApp - Application for IT department to register Firm's new employees into multiple systems from one location. Enters employee into Active Directory, Elite, Carpe Diem, Worksite, and sets up their Exchange account.    • Partners' Retreat - Site developed for Firm's annual retreat to give partners information on the retreat such as events, lodging, activities, and allows users to register for the retreat.    • Handheld Device Tracker - Site developed to maintain the firm's list of devices. Interface includes a cfgrid of all devices and user can filter the list based on provider and device type. Backend coding includes CFC's and database interaction with CF objects and CFAJAX.    • Windows Server Build - Site developed to track HNB servers and allow user to add new servers and edit existing server information. Additional functionality includes server access request form which sends admin a vCalendar request for reminder notices to start/stop server access from users request.    • Credit Card Authorization Form - Developed internal form that works with a Cybersource Hoisted Order Page (HOP) that creates security key and passes that information along with form information to Cybersource's credit card form for online transactions that saves the firm over $2000 in credit card transaction fees.    • Help Desk Alert - Developed site to allow helpdesk to enter a message for email virus alerts and outages for servers and services. The alerts are displayed on the internal Portal system and is read from an RSS feed from the database with the specific outage and email alerts.    • Technical Environment: Coldfusion, CFC, ASP, PHP, SQL, CSS, Dreamweaver, Photoshop. Web Developer University of North Texas Health Science Center November 2005 to March 2008 Responsible for design and development of web presence for the University's faculty, staff, and students. Duties include:  • Customer interaction for determining requirements.    • Sites developed in Photoshop CS2 and built on CSS and template designs.    • Custom graphics designer for logos and presentations for many of the university's departments.    • Maintain content for many of the university's department sites.    • Developing admin site allowing customer's to update site content that is database driven.    • Developed the National DNA website for the university. www.unthumanid.org    • Technical Environment: Coldfusion, SQL, CSS, HTML, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flash Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Irving, TX 2006 Skills OBJECT ORIENTED, OBJECT ORIENTED DESIGN, WINDOWS 7, WINDOWS 95 Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nzttjrkkmlsophfa Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/na8c1sfivtzaeecx Organizational Skills — Highly Proficient July 2019 Arranging and managing information or materials using a set of rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dcmrebw1yuvqnbjy Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.