Owner/ Developer Owner/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Owner/ Developer - Zentelligent, LLC Jacksonville, FL Web Application Developer with experience in structuring, developing and implementing web applications and sites.  Primarily experienced in VB but with a proficiency in C#. Experienced with all stages of the development cycle for  dynamic web projects. Work Experience Owner/ Developer Zentelligent, LLC November 2016 to Present Develop and maintain web applications utilizing .NET and CMS systems (DNN, WordPress) applying the full life- cycle of building, testing, implementation and support for B2B and B2C businesses and non-profit organizations.  Maintain server management, installation and maintenance of CMS systems, related skins, themes and modules.  Represent firm as lead technology manager in client management.    ? Utilize .NET technologies (1.1 through 4.7.2) and CMS systems (including DNN (2.x - 9.x), WordPress  (4.x - 5.x))  ? Utilize SQL Server (2008-2017) and MySQL (5.x - 8.x) as backend data sources  ? Implementation of third-party libraries (i.e., JavaScript, jQuery)  ? Comprehend/collect system requirements from multiple stakeholders throughout SDLC  ? Manage multiple client accounts with unique diversity of goals  ? Install, optimize, manage and maintain web applications hosted on Windows Server 2016  ? Install CMS systems (DNN, WordPress) related skins, themes and modules  ? Custom module development  ? Assist both internal and external clients in performing tasks related to websites and associated functions Senior Web Developer FIS July 1998 to November 2016 0Developed, tested, implemented, and maintained web-based application systems utilizing VB.NET, C#, ASP.NET,  .NET framework, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML & SQL.    ? Maintained seminar and conference registration processes in an ever-changing, dynamic environment that  was responsible for generating approximately $1.25 million in annual revenue for the company each year.  ? Designed and implemented a discount code model allowing for reduced registration for seminars and events totaling $500,000-750,000 per year.  ? Designed and implemented custom Data Access Layer to handle enterprise level database access from all  points within the website applications  ? Custom SQL queries and stored procedures using SSMS and SQL 2016.  ? Built desktop application that ran site code on local desktops for internal clients  ? Mastered new technologies to serve a diverse array of projects for primarily internal clients  ? Developed and maintained the original the firm's accounting system applications  ? Coded against customer relationship software to create custom views and functionality needed by the accounting department  ? Collaborated in related technologies (i.e., DNN services, WPF, etc.) Education High school or equivalent Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, Git, HTML, Javascript, SQL, Sql Server, XML, Vb.Net (10+ years), Jquery Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8msew-yhh5ocetmz Problem Solving — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nmftf6ky4dkkvwym Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: VB.NET, ASP.NET, C#, .NET, Web Forms, JavaScript, MSSQL, SQL, HTML  Tools: Visual Studio 2015-19, SSMS, VSS, TFS, GIT, MySQL, Microsoft Server 2016