WebFOCUS Developer - FDIC (Nfinity) WebFOCUS <span class="hl">Developer</span> - FDIC (Nfinity) WebFOCUS Developer - FDIC (through Nfinity) Lewisville, TX Seeking a Front End Developer or Software Developer role. The constant change of the field reminds me that there is always room to grow. Therefore, I am willing to learn and invest extra time for the success of the company. Work Experience WebFOCUS Developer - FDIC (Nfinity) Nfinity (Contracted to FDIC) - Dallas, TX October 2018 to Present • Work hand in hand with the client to develop graphs and tables that meet their needs.  • Use HTML, CSS, and jQuery/JavaScript to interact with client’s portal.  • Collaborate with team to develop new components used by the department.  • Look into new technologies that could be implemented with the current system. UI Developer HPE Enterprise - Austin, TX July 2018 to October 2018 • Customizing UI aspects on Hybris eCommerce environment for client.  • Edit and add queries through impex files, similar to SQL, for SEO.  • Adhere to strict coding standards to maintain uniformity.  • Make sure UI is as per the mockup that the client agrees on.  • Working with team members all over the world.  • Being on time and available for scheduled team meetings. Web Developer Wipro Limited - Plano, TX July 2017 to October 2018 • Primarily focused on UI/UX development for a variety of projects.  • Use Bootstrap alongside CSS3 to develop clean and professional websites.  • Angular4/Angularjs/Reactjs, and Nodejs manage structure of the project.  • Full-stack Java development training.  • Flexibility in Agile and Scrum environments.  • Collaborating with team members to develop mini project to present to clients. Quality Assurance Greenhouse App Inc - Taipei, TW June 2015 to August 2015 Taipei, Taiwan    • Collaborated with Software Development team in testing and ensuring consistency of iOS and Android applications in an Agile environment.  • Executed test cases manually and logged bugs in Pivotal Tracker to provide Development team with record of issues.  • Optimizing experience of application to ensure pleasant interface for users.  • Analyzing application for new or old problems when updated. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX August 2012 to December 2016 Skills Angularjs (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), Java (2 years), Eclipse (2 years), Angular (1 year), Javascript (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), HTML 5 (2 years), MySQL (1 year), Python (2 years), Nodejs (1 year), Reactjs (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/charlie-pan Additional Information Skills  • Programming languages: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Java, AEM, SQL, and Python  • Frameworks: Angularjs, Angular 4/5, jQuery, Nodejs, and Reactjs  • Toolkits: Bootstrap, Font Awesome  • Platforms: SAP Hybris  • Software methodologies: Agile, Scrum, and Waterfall  • Tools: IDE(Eclipse, Notepad++, Visual Studio Code, and Netbeans); Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, and PowerPoint); Pivotal Tracker; Ubuntu; Virtual Box; VMware