Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer - NAF Hillsdale, NJ Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer NAF - New York, NY November 2018 to Present Rearchitected underlying codebase to implement the MVC paradigm  ? Created custom controllers and dispatching endpoints  ? Created introduced a components layer that is used in conjunction with the view layer  ? Wrote a scaffolding bash script to generate stub files for controllers and any page components required by endpoints  ? Created release script utilities in order to facilitate a more efficient, expeditious, and manageable deployment process Web Developer Brimar Industries - Garfield, NJ May 2016 to April 2018 Collaborating on the development of a custom MVC framework, which uses the LAMP stack on the back-end, ES6 mainly on the front-end, and Handlebars on the view layer  ? Collaborating on the architecture of migration legacy code and database structures in order to support having a single, multi-site, application  ? Created an init.d script that resides on each web node and poll the NFS mount and database servers to determine whether or not  the web node should be marked as online or offline for the load-balancer, then cycle through each virtual host and perform any  tasks that correlate to the run level  ? Maintain MySQL triggers, which are used in conjunction with the caching system  ? Devised a generic authentication module, which was also extensible for performing HTTP Basic and Digest authentications Web Developer Boca Raton, FL January 2015 to September 2015 Self-taught CakePHP version 2.6.3  ? Created access control list system for CakePHP that integrated with existing code  ? Created SQL schema for access control list system  ? Streamlined the initial logic for determining user access of objects from 300 to 12 seconds for a heavy set of users, groups, permissions, and objects  ? Maintained the main website for the company  ? Maintained and generated new functionality for existing mobile applications Mobile Application Developer Mediacom Communications Corporation - Blooming Grove, NY December 2013 to June 2014 Maintained application that was used as a remote control and tv guide  ? Utilized iOS MVC design rules and paradigms  ? Dramatically improved load time of the application using asynchronously dispatched threads, signaling, and a priori knowledge  of dependencies Mobile Application Developer EarthCam, Inc - Hackensack, NJ June 2011 to October 2013 Created themed holiday apps  ? Leveraged the image overlay feature within the device camera with custom themed graphics that users could upload to social media, save to their device, message to contacts  ? Granted users protrusions into public facing cameras associated with locations corresponding to the given holiday  ? Enabled the mobile device to be used as a supplemental noise-maker as a party feature within the application  ? Managed and conducted research and development  ? Created MySQL and SQLite schemas to support a floor plan management system  ? Developed PHP scripts that interacted with the mobile application to facilitate the migration of data back and forth  ? Used GPS coordinates obtained from location services or EXIF data, relative to the geo-fence of the supplied floor plan, for logical groupings of photos    Junior Programmer  ? Created scripts to automate previously manual and tedious processes for efficiency in the workplace  ? Created a perl script that ran as a system service, digesting raw SMTP messages, which automatically created entries in our  custom ticketing system, including any sanitized attachments  ? Implemented Levenshtein, Soundex, and Metaphone algorithms to aid in the analysis of the SMTP message subject and body to ameliorate improper categorizations of tickets due to typographical errors Website Administrator Independent Contracting - Hillsdale, NJ May 2009 to 2011 Collaborated with ReMax Real Estate branch owner to design and maintain the company website  ? Facilitated the workings of multiple-listing services website  ? Adjusted website features to meet the demands of branch owner and site's patrons  ? Evaluated all data submissions from the website to the MySQL database to ensure security    MySQL Database Administrator  ? Ensured that all information pertaining to the advertised properties is current and archived  ? Utilized self-created scripts to retrieve, parse, re-assemble, and publish data properly to the database server Application Developer Information Services & Technology - Newark, NJ January 2007 to December 2010 Collaboratively managed part of the Information Services & Technology website  ? Independently created NJIT authorization and authentication modules using PHP and LDAP for software downloading  ? Aided customers by troubleshooting any problems with NJIT software supported for Windows, Linux, and Mac platforms  ? Created scripts to automate previously manual and tedious processes for efficiency in the workplace Volunteer New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ January 2010 to May 2010 Pre-College Teacher via Real World Connections  ? Created and facilitated lessons regarding Java and HTML as a capstone requirement Education certification University of Michigan Present BS in Computer Network and Information Security New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ 2010 Additional Information All throughout my college studies, first as a Computer Science and then as an Information Technology major, object-oriented  programming was constantly stressed; through these studies, my academic and practical knowledge about this subject grew  tremendously. In the past ten years of working in the professional technology industry, I have held various positions in which I have  worked with PHP, Perl, Bash, MySQL, T-SQL, JavaScript, jQuery, ES6, Handlebars, Node, Gulp, SASS, CSS, HTML, Objective-C  iOS/Cocoa development, and various implementations of the MVC paradigm.