Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Sycamore, IL Experienced web developer with a solid employment track record. Excellent communicator skilled in PHP, JavaScript and SASS/CSS. Comfortable with project lifecycle as well as client relations. Lifetime learner eager to sink my teeth into the next challenge. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer School Tool Box - Sycamore, IL January 2019 to Present I'm part of a team using the LAMP stack and Bootstrap 4 to upgrade the current e-commerce site. My role is developing the public-facing site including making it responsive and wiring up the back end with the existing admin models. I use HTML, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, GIT, PHP (Yii framework) daily.     Secondary duties include interfacing with an outside agency on social marketing initiatives.  Web Developer Trittenhaus Design - Sycamore, IL February 2017 to January 2019 I worked with our designer and clients to build and maintain WordPress sites including custom template and plugin development. I was an integral part of the team that revamped the DeKalb County, IL government site - https://dekalbcounty.org Freelance Web Designer/ Developer Hendricks Web Development - Sycamore, IL October 2014 to December 2015 I planned, developed and maintained corporate mobile and desktop websites. Staying on top of new technologies and industry trends was critical. Web Developer Quiet Light Communications - Rockford, IL January 2015 to September 2015 Quiet Light is a full-service marketing agency specializing in the food market. I was part of the web team that built and maintained websites and mobile applications for clients. I specialized in engineering front-end experiences using WordPress and Expression Engine CMS's, leveraging JavaScript and the Bootstrap Framework creating fully responsive designs. VP Online Services 4289 - Rockford, IL June 2009 to September 2014 At 4289 (formerly Cummings Group) I still acted as lead developer and department manager. As VP I had the added roles of overseeing day-to-day operations of the dev and creative departments. I was also a key player in the rebranding effort to transform Cummings Group as 4289. Director Interactive Services Cummings Advertising - Rockford, IL January 2005 to May 2009 I revamped and managed the Interactive Department for the agency and worked with account executives, art directors and clients on projects and new-business pitches. I also assisted in planning and managing SEO and pay-per-click ad campaigns. In my first year, agency interactive billings increased nearly 300%. Interactive Developer Cummings Advertising - Rockford, IL January 2004 to December 2005 Cummings was a full-service marketing agency. I was the lead developer on a team that created myriad interactive projects including sales presentations, corporate sites, landing pages and micro-sites for business-to-business clients. Education B.S. in Communications Northern Illinois University Skills Javascript (10+ years), HTML 5 (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), SEO (10+ years), JQuery (10+ years), Wordpress (8 years), Written Communication (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Bootstrap, mysql, Front End, Foundation RWD Framework (8 years), GULP (5 years), Git (5 years), SASS (5 years), Responsive Web Design (9 years), Google Maps & Sheets APIs (5 years), HTML, HTML5 Additional Information Excellent soft skills  Client service  UX best practices  Web design sensibilities  Command Line interface (CLI)  WP-CLI, WP rest API  SEO and Pay-Per-Click campaign management  ColdFusion