Drupal Engineer & Themer Drupal Engineer &amp; Themer Web Developer Gallatin, TN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Drupal Engineer & Themer Kanopi Studios - Remote October 2018 to Present Assist the support department in maintaining and enhancing customers' Drupal and WordPress websites. Tasks include theming, implementing new functionality, bug fixes, installing security updates, and migrating sites to new servers. Web Developer Volunteer State Community College - Gallatin, TN May 2017 to October 2018 Built a new website for the college using Drupal 8 and custom modules. Designed and developed a campus-wide digital signage and way-finding system using Drupal 7. Created a custom WordPress theme for the college radio station. Provided daily support, maintenance, updates, and enhancement of the college websites. Ensured college websites followed W3C accessibility standards. Web Developer Infomedia - Birmingham, AL March 2006 to April 2017 Assisted the support department to resolve customer issues and requests. Maintained WordPress and ASP websites: added new functionality, updated content, fixed errors, upgraded plug-ins, created forms, setup e-commerce shops, integrated payment processors APIs. Performed web server administration tasks, including DNS, SSL, permissions, backups. IT Progammer/Analyst Command Alkon - Birmingham, AL January 2002 to March 2006 Created intranet, IT help desk, and PTO websites. Maintained and upgraded departmental software and database systems, including accounting, support, HR, and sales. Wrote complex SQL queries and Crystal reports. Provided software technical support for 300+ employees. Administered performance, backups and recovery of web and database servers. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Alabama at Birmingham - Birmingham, AL August 2001 Skills Drupal, PHP, CSS, HTML, JQuery, Wordpress, Bootstrap, HTML5, Javascript, Front End Links https://cindytwilliams.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/cindytwilliams https://github.com/cindytwilliams Certifications/Licenses Acquia Certified Developer - Drupal 8 June 2018 to Present