Sr. Web Applications Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Web</span> Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web Applications Developer - Cisco Systems, DC-Tools Wake Forest, NC Work Experience Sr. Web Applications Developer Cisco Systems, GIS - Research Triangle Park, NC September 2013 to Present on contract.  Development Environment: RHEL 5/6, Apache 2.x, Perl 5.8.8/5.16, Oracle 11i, telecommuting/VPN, Windows, Sencha ExtJS,  git, pxe, rsync, etc.  • Building software as part of the data center tools automation team. The web service tool automates the provisioning of an OS  (initially linux, esxi, windows) by generating kickstart files using a template driven, "Q&A" technique.  • Building the RESTful web service using Dancer, Mouse, and extensive OO Perl for the middle-ware application; bash/perl for CLI testing framework. Built test suite using Test::More, REST::Client, JSON, et al. to systematically exercise the  RESTful API for our application. Extensive DBI layer against Oracle 11i with nested object tables for data storage. Sr. Web Applications Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC April 2012 to September 2013 on contract.  Development Environment: RHEL 5/6, Apache 2.x, Perl 5.10/+ (DBIx::Class), mysql/sybase, cron/Autosys, VPN, Windows, etc.  • Developed tools as part of the Enterprise SAN and NAS Storage Automation development team, in a fully remote position.  The software interfaces with remote NetApp, EMC, Brocade, and Cisco devices in a consistent manner for storage engineers.  • Built several web services using variety of techniques including rest/json, soap/xml, ajax/jQuery; and OO Perl for the middle- ware applications. Developed a work-flow system managing fiber channel cabling requests world wide.  • Ported the SAN automation system, a missions-critical application, from perl 5.6.1/5.8 on Solaris to perl 5.10 on RHEL 6.1. Sr. Web Applications Developer VIF International Education - Chapel Hill, NC February 2012 to March 2012 on contract.  Development Environment: Mac OS X, Centos/RHEL5, Apache 2.x, MySQL 5.x, Perl 5.8, mysql workbench,  html/css/javascript/jquery, telecommuting/VPN, svn/Pivotal Tracker, etc.  • Intentionally short-term development project to lend a hand in a critical path project for VIF's next generation product.  Performed software development, database analysis, and debugging on a large, complex, mature product. Wrote variety of features in perl, jquery, and integrated various open source JS libraries. Sr. Web Applications Developer Wells Fargo/Wachovia Bank - Charlotte, NC July 2010 to January 2012 on contract.  Development Environment: RHEL4/5, Apache 2.x, MySQL 5.0, Perl 5.8.8/5.10/5.12, mysql workbench,  html/css/javascript/jquery, Windows XP, json/ajax, telecommuting/VPN, Windows XP, cvs/svn, etc.  • Developed new features and performed site improvements for web based application that supports the corporate physical  security services team. The tool manages badge access for 200+ buildings, 100K+ users for a distributed  administration/authentication team.  • Built (and extended) two ETL applications to send proprietary data to internal systems using specialized formatting rules.  These data feed applications use a command line interface to control features, config files for settings, Test::More for validation, and are automated with cron.  • Built several specialized reporting features for the admin users of our web-based application using a object oriented, MVC  approach that delivers content in html, csv, xls formats. Web Applications Developer Gander Direct Marketing Services LLC - Greenville, NC January 2010 to July 2010 on contract.  Development Environment: RHEL 5.4, Apache 2.2.3, Perl 5.8.8, mod_perl, html/css/javascript/jquery, Windows XP, php 5.3.2,  json/ajax, MySQL 5.0, Toad/SQL Developer, telecommuting/VPN, cvs, etc.  • Developed new features and performed site improvements for three existing e-commerce sites as part of development team.  Sites included Overtons.com, GanderMtn.com, ConsumersMarine.com. Independent tasks included: updated interactions with Omniture (site metrics) and Bronto (email service). Added new custom dock sign tool using GD::Text and  Image::Magick. Implemented Google Analytics Ecommerce tracking for 2 sites. Team oriented tasks included the following:  • Integrated/modified third-party propeller selection tool; specifically, rewrote the ajax/javascript library and php web service  that queries db, generates the json, delivers content to user.  • Refactored the boat cover selection tool's perl web-service which uses json to deliver content to a 3rd party front-end. Perl Programmer VWR International - West Chester, PA June 2009 to September 2009 on contract  Development Environment: Oracle 10/11, RHEL5, Windows, Perl 5.8.8, Apache 1.3/2.2, mod_perl, shell script, cvs, rsync,  Maestro/TWS.  • Develop new tools and migrate existing site to modern versions of Linux, Apache, Oracle, and Perl on the new infrastructure as part of development team. Provide development team support while testing migration in the updated LAMP environment. Web Engineer Red Hat, Inc - Raleigh, NC December 2003 to September 2008 on series of contract and employee positions.  Development Environment: Perl 5.8.8, mod_perl, Apache::ASP, Oracle 9/10, Linux, xHTML, CSS, cvs, git, genome, tora, sql  developer, javascript, rest/json, soap/xml  • Completed migrating the redhat.com LAMP stack to modern versions of all components. Essentially, ported applications from Linux 2.6AS/Perl 5.6.1/Apache 1.3 to RHEL 5.2/Perl 5.8.8/Apache 2.  • Refactored a legacy application (known internally as WebForms) and integrated it with the Lead Management business  process for improved sales and marketing efforts. The tool provides database driven form creation for marketing campaigns,  data capture and data migration to internal systems. The tool supports 4 distinct, but extensible, work flows which enable  tremendous flexibility and system connectivity. Extensions utilized rest/json or soap/xml to external vendors.  • Business Partner Portal: Created by refactoring and adding to the original tool to meet an expanded business needs. The new  feature set supports the Sales team by tracking demand for products listed in (or new to) the Software Catalog; and expands the knowledge base for each product with forecast data supplied under NDA with the ISV Business Partners. Responsible for all aspects of the design and development of the expanded "Demand and Internal Guidance" features to the existing  application. Met with customers to determine features and business process; created and implemented the database  extensions; designed and wrote application using available tools and guidelines. The finished product interacts with  SalesForce.com thru real-time soap/xml connection.  • Reseller Partner Program: Responsible for the design and development of a new web application based on the original ISV  tool. Met with customers to determine features and business process; created and implemented the database; designed and wrote application using available tools and guidelines. Final product available at: http://redhat.com/apps/reseller_catalog/  • ISV Software Catalog: Responsible for the design and development of a new web application supporting the marketing  department. Met with customers to determine features and business process, created and implemented the database, designed and wrote application using available tools and guidelines. Final product available at: http://redhat.com/apps/isv_catalog/    Additional Clients  Glaxo Smith-Kline, SMT Resource, Railinc, Caterpillar-Building Construction Products, Nortel Networks, BCBSNC, Imonics,  Bell Northern Research, IBM-PC Company, Performance Awareness. Education B.S. in Small Business Management University of North Carolina at Wilmington - Wilmington, NC May 1990 Davidson College - Davidson, NC 1983 to 1985