Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Exxon Mobil New York, NY • Having 10+ years of experience in the SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) phases which includes Requirements, Analysis, Design, Testing, and Deployment of web applications.  • Experience in dynamic web development and Client-side programming with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSP, Ruby on Rails, VBScript etc.  • Good experience in development with new front-end frameworks like Angular JS, Angular 2, Angular 4, Angular 5, Node JS, React JS and Redux.  • Worked on React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Responsible for developing front-end application using React JS and FLUX architecture for internal team's productivity use.  • Implemented React-Router, React-Redux architecture, ES5, ES6, Web pack and Grunt to turn application into Single Page Application (SPA).  • Used Babel transpiler to convert ES6 to ES5 for browser understanding.  • Utilized ECMA Script 6 features to build JSX and ES2015 (ES6) using Babel & Web pack.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, spring transactions and spring security modules.  • Developed OOJS code and responsible for client-side validations using jQuery functions.  • Worked closely with client/partner teams on defining business requirements.  • Extensive experience in developing UI applications using AngularJS 1.x and Angular 2/4, proficient in creating modules, components/Controllers, Custom Directives, Custom Filters, Service Factories, Data Binding, Dependency Injection.  • Created web templates and customized modules for various CMSs such as WordPress applications.  • Implemented full featured front-end application using Angular 4, TypeScript and jQuery.  • Developed Single Page Applications using Angular 2, Typescript, Web pack and Grunt.  • Worked on Angular 2 by consuming Restful web services & used Angular 2 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.  • Worked with Express.JS for development of RESTful web services & middleware configurations.  • Used Express framework to set up middleware to respond to HTTP requests with the help of Node.js.  • Experience in Application servers such as Apache Tomcat, JBoss, IBM WebSphere Application Development, etc.  • Extensive knowledge in developing Single Page Applications (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js, Node.js and Backbone.js.  • Used Sketch and Photoshop to design websites: typography, images (svg, jpeg), colors, layouts, etc.  • Enabled real-time bi-directional communication between server and client using Socket.io.  • Refactored rendering from client-side rendering to server-side rendering to reduce initial page loading time and achieve better SEO performance.  • Good knowledge and experience on various IDE's like Visual Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD, JBuilder, Sublime Text, etc.  • Used SQL to retrieve data from Oracle database.  • Good working knowledge of DOM (Document Object Model) functions.  • Worked with React Component Life cycle in updating the Virtual DOM and also making AJAX calls in components.  • Extensive experience on implementing AJAX features using JavaScript, OOJS and jQuery.  • Designed and developed CI/CD pipelines built and coordinate an automated build & release CI/CD process using GitLab, Jenkins, Nexus, and Chef on hybrid IT infrastructure.  • Strong learning of the Web services like SOAP and RESTful APIs for building communication and message exchange between the systems.  • Extensive experience working with UML concepts like Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, etc.  • Good understanding of Hibernate, Spring and Core Java.  • Experience in developing and documenting in the entire SDLC.  • Good knowledge of the OOPs concepts and the design patterns in ASP.net.  • Worked on Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Worked on Jira for the tracking and management of projects to update the tasks.  • Used Git for version control and Automated deployment & release management process using TFS, GitHub.  • Experience in TFS builds with Version Control Systems like GIT, CVS, SVN (Subversion).  • Experience in Cross-browser compatibility implementation like Chrome, Safari, IE, and Firefox.  • Used Bower, NPM, Grunt and Gulp for managing the dependencies in the web application.  • Used Docker for virtualization, Ship, Run and Deploy the application securely to fasten the Build/Release  Engineering.  • Experience in installing and configuring MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB servers.  • Experience in using the debugging tool Firebug.  • Used Adobe Illustrator, Sketch for the visual design.  • Strong attention to detail, excellent verbal and communication skills, ability to work within a team and independently, good analytical and problem-solving skills.  • Excellent team player, self-starter and good at Multi-Tasking with ability to handle deadlines in fast paced environment.    TECHNOLOGIES AND TOOLS:  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, Bootstrap, SASS/SCSS, LESS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, DOM, OOJSs  Languages Java, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, UML, XST, XSLT  Frameworks/J2EE Java/J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Servlets, JDBC, JSP, Java Beans, MVC, Struts, Hibernate Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Exxon Mobil - New York, NY June 2018 to Present Description:  Focuses on designing and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON and Angular JS. This system to ensure the users get a newer, better and enriched functionality and experience. The task was to build and design the application with the new functionality, page layouts, navigation and to make it responsive.  Responsibilities:  • Built application and Prototypes using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap with MySQL Database.  • Developed OOJS code and responsible for client-side validations using jQuery functions.  • Experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using Model View Controller (MVC) framework such as AngularJS, ReactJS.  • Experience in AngularJS for building apps and declarative templates with data-binding, created some custom directives in the application.  • Developed various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Experience using AJAX to create interactive web applications.  • Worked on multiple JavaScript frameworks to augment browser-based applications with MVC capability.  • Experienced with implementing different features of Bootstrap this includes responsive web design.  • Knowledge and experience in working with SASS/LESS as CSS preprocessors and modern techniques such as Flexbox.  • Experience in using Jenkins for continuous integration and sonar jobs for java code quality.  • Experience in using various jQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers.  • Experience in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Responsible for checking Cross Browser Compatibility and worked on cross browser issues with different browsers like Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Firefox, Opera, and Safari.  • Knowledge in testing/building tools like Jasmine, Karma and Jenkins.  • Experience with Grunt, Gulp and Bower modules of Node.JS  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Restful Web APIs, Web Services using AJAX Frameworks, JSON, XML and jQuery.  • Experience in using the latest approaches including MVVM, MVC in the browser, event-driven applications using AJAX, JavaScript and JSON.  • Expertise in developing multi-tire Enterprise applications using SOAP, RESTful Web Services and XML.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Restful Web APIs, Web Services using AJAX  • Develop custom Web-based MVC structured health communication portal software, which sent and received encrypted data to remote server using a Restful API.  • Responsible for JavaScript/AJAX UI upgrades and improvements.  • Built responsive site using Bootstrap that fits devices of different sizes.  • Experience working with Angular 5 including building Components, Directives, Routers. Pipes, Services and other modules based on Angular CLI.  • Used TypeScript to reduce the number of lines of traditional JavaScript files. Integration of TypeScript to the whole project.  • Responsible for developing front-end application using React JS and FLUX architecture for internal team's productivity use.  • Developed the application using ReactJS, Bootstrap with ECMA6 Standards.  • Worked on using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Involved to implement various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Made extensive use of reactive programming patters utilizing the RxJS library.  • Knowledge on Redux to manage State, Subscribing, and unsubscribing the state changes and dispatching the actions in Angular 2.  • Built Angular 4/2 components, UI services to consume rest services using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Built Angular 2 components, UI services to consume rest services using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Implemented Angular 2 component router for navigation.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS Framework and injected generic services using Angular 2.  • Responsible to implement UI layer using Angular 2 for web API and browser clients.  • Used SASS CSS pre-processors.  • Worked with RxJS (subscriptions, observables, etc.)  • Implemented HTTP/asynchronous requests using RxJS Observables.  • Enabled real-time bi-directional communication between server and client using Socket.io.  • Excellent experience in developing web pages contents with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • Strong Experience in using CSS2, CSS3 and dealing with CSS Animations, Backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding and CSS Box Model.  • Thorough understanding in Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) using Java/J2EE related technologies.  • Very good experience in Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Hands on Experience in working with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX and JQUERY.  • Solid experience in Test Drive Development by using Jasmine and Karma.  • Hands on experience in using tools Grunt, Bower and Angular CLI.  • Good Web Application debugging skills using Chrome developer's Tool and Firebug.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL and Oracle.  • Proficient in developing SOAP and RESTful Web Services.  • Good Experience with Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery by using tools like Jenkins.  • Strong Experience with Version Control tools like GIT and SVN for Source Code version management.  • Experience using JIRA for project tracking.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Applications (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Enabled multiple chat rooms using join and leave method in Socket.io.  • Handled user commands to change nickname and chat room using Socket.io.  • Creating new components and making changes to existing web applications using React.js.  • Used the SOAP and RESTful APIs for communication between systems.  • Designing User-Interface (UI) web pages and front-end applications using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Worked on SASS & LESS as they easily compatible to convert the existing CSS and are also CSS extensions.  • Using Component based architecture by Angular 4, made Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST APIs.  • Using Bootstrap components for creating responsive web pages.  • Worked with React Component Life cycle in updating the Virtual DOM and also making AJAX calls in components.  • To suggest the best suitable business and technology needs to maintain and improve solutions in UI standpoint.  • As a part of development workflow included more specialized snapshot testing with Jest for React based applications and components.  • Used GIT for version control and Jenkins as automation tool.  • Interacting with JSON, AJAX, and jQuery to read / write from backend systems.  • On the backend also worked on Java/J2EE and Java frameworks. Worked on spring services.  • Used JIRA for tracking and the management of the projects and Git and Apache Subversion for version control.  • Used Firebug and Chrome developer tool for debugging.  * Followed Agile Methodologies for rapid development and regular adaption to the varying requirements and continuous delivery. Assists clients in translating user needs into universal and accessible information design, website architecture, and effective user interfaces.    * Assists clients in accessibility project planning, establishing and administering accessibility testing programs, and remediating accessibility issues to ensure compliance with W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and Section 508 accessibility standards.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, MongoDB, Express JS, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, JSON, AJAX, jQuery, Angular 2, Angular 4, React.js, Node.js, Redux, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, SOAP, RESTful, JIRA, Git, Apache Subversion, Jest, Firebug, Chrome developer tool, PostgreSQL. UI Developer Office Depot - Fort Lauderdale, FL August 2015 to May 2018 Description:  Comity, a Brillio Company, is a world-class technology solutions partner that helps enterprises and fast-growing companies dream, build, and deliver innovative, sustainable solutions on the latest cloud technology.  Responsibilities:  • Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology.  • Developed web application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and jQuery.  • Used Java Script/jQuery for client-side.  • Used Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.  • Developed a cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript API.  • Extensive experience on modern front-end template frameworks for JavaScript including Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS.  • Strong technical knowledge of Object-Oriented JavaScript (OOJS) and JS frameworks/libraries as jQuery, jQuery UI, AngularJS.  • Used Backbone JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model View Controller).  • Used OOJS which is JavaScript library for working with objects. Features include inheritance, mixins, static inheritance and additional utilities for working with objects and arrays.  • Experience in creating custom charts with SVG and D3.js.  • Experienced in Agile based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions.  • Created ETL jobs to load JSON data and server data into MongoDB and transported MongoDB into the Data Warehouse.  • Working on Node.js to augment browser-based applications.  • Worked with Express JS for development of RESTful web services and middleware configurations.  • Used Express framework to set up middleware to respond to HTTP requests with the help of Node.js.  • Referenced Normalize.css and reset.css to improve compatibility for multiple web browsers.  • Adopted LESS as the CSS preprocessor to generate style sheet by running Grunt.  • Hands on experience in UML high level design with data flow diagram, class diagram, sequence diagram, use case diagram and activity diagram.  • Used web service client to consume web services for getting data from different web services.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in MySQL Server, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle Database, MongoDB.  • Designed and developed CI/CD pipelines built and coordinate an automated build & release CI/CD process using GitLab, Jenkins, Nexus, and Chef on hybrid IT infrastructure.  • Maintaining performance using automated CI/CD with Jenkins, build-pipeline-plugin.  • Experience in Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) and Agile methodologies.  • Extensively used Docker for virtualization, Ship, Run and Deploy the application securely to fasten the Build/Release Engineering.  • Used Docker machine as a virtualization between systems.  • Coordinate with the UX/UI design team in order to build the mobile wireframe through scalable HTML, CSS and SASS.  • Used the unit testing tool Jasmine and Junit.  • Used DB2 to store and retrieve the data.  • Responsible for analyzing requirements and writing technical specification documents.  Environment:  Java Script, jQuery, Eclipse, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Agile, SDLC, HTML, CSS, SASS, MySQL Server, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle Database, Mongo DB, Docker, DB2, Maven UI Developer Stanley Black and Decker - Indianapolis, IN October 2013 to July 2015 Description:  Design, develop and deliver high-end and flawless services to our clients which meet all criteria whilst offering maximum impact at an affordable price.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed front-end programming and UI layout for the web application which matches the wireframes, using the HTML5, CSS3 and AngularJS.  • Used the new CSS3 features like multi-column layout, transform and transpose, gradients and web fonts and @media.  • Used the new features and updates of HTML5 such as Canvas and SVG, new input attributes, audio, video, local storage, etc.  • Worked with SASS/SCSS pre-processor to simplify writing the CSS styles.  • Used Node.js and Java to perform server-side operations.  • Experience in implementing the MVC frameworks like Angular.js for AJAX data calls using the $http service.  • Used Bootstrap, SASS, and LESS CSS for creating responsive web design.  • Worked on Agile methodologies and used Scrum to implement the project.  • Used Jira as a tool for project tracking and management where we update the daily tasks performed.  • Used Git for version control and IDEs like WebStorm, Eclipse, and Net Beans.  • Analyzed and parsed the response of JSON/XML to update DOM.  • Used Bower and NPM for managing the frontend and node modules.  • Built a prototype for internal blog application using the CMS tool WordPress.  • Worked on latest AngularJS concepts like creating custom directives, services, $http service, factory's, $watch and $apply, etc.  • Developed RESTful web services using Spring MVC.  • Designed and developed views, controller and model components implementing Struts framework.  Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Java, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Bower, RESTful, Spring MVC, Struts, Git, JIRA, WebStorm, SASS/SCSS, LESS, Node.js, WordPress, Agile, Scrum. Web Developer Barclays Capital - New York, NY July 2010 to September 2013 Description:  Thomson Reuters provides financial, tax and accounting solutions to industries. The project was to create one source cloud-based Web Application which is used by industries to file tax. Whether its corporate tax, indirect tax, property tax, trust tax, tax information reporting, transfer pricing, data management or internal process it will simplify clients tax compliance life cycle with one complete solution.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, DOM to write components, services, styles and unit test cases.  • Involved in Requirements phase of SDLC to gather the requirements from business users, maintaining, enhancing and suggesting solutions to the UI team to assist the changing requirements.  • Used jQuery for complex DOM manipulation and selection to create custom directives, angular components, controllers and services.  • Used Promises to handle asynchronous with Rest API.  • Used Bootstrap, OOP web development for responsive web design.  • Experienced in building web UI using HTML, CSS, DOM, jQuery, JavaScript that are browser compatible.  • Responsible for making pages dynamic utilizing the AJAX, JSON, XML.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML and CSS in jQuery.  • Used PL/SQL to create, update and manipulate tables.  • Involved in creating page layouts, custom links, related, lists and other components on the web pages.  • Experience in MVC framework using Angular JS custom directives, controllers, services, model and factories.  • Experience in developing Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular JS.  • Used Firebug as a debugging tool.  • Experience in testing the functionality and compatibility of the application in multiple browsers like Chrome, IE, Safari, Firefox, and Opera.  • Well- versed with the Software development Lifecycle (SDLC) all its phases.  • Created SQL queries to perform insert, update and delete operations on MySQL database.  Environment:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, DOM, Bootstrap, OOP, AJAX, JSON, XML, PL/SQL, MVC, Angular JS, Firebug, MySQL. Junior Web Developer CES - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2009 to June 2010 Description:  The project was involved in the development of Web pages in which user can give values in terms of policies to get insurance coverage related information.  Responsibilities:  • Coded the business methods according to the IBM Rational Rose UML model.  • Involved in Analyzing, Design, Implementation and Testing of the project.  • Used HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript to implement the presentation layer.  • Used Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) for better and faster interactive Front-End  • Used SQL server to implement the database.  • Designed Tables and Indexes.  • Developed User and Technical documentation.  • Used DB2 Database to store the system data  • Used Git for controlling the version of the project  • Involved in fixing defects and unit testing with test cases using JUnit.  Environment:  HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate XML, SQL server, DB2, Git, Junit. Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Git, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Jenkins, Subversion, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Sql, Soap, Tomcat, Web server, Web services, Eclipse Additional Information Operating systems Windows, Mac OS  Web Servers Apache Tomcat, HTTP Web Server  Animation Adobe PageMaker, Sketch, Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Windows Movie maker  Database MySQL, PL/SQL(Oracle), PostgreSQL  IDEs Eclipse IDE, Net Beans, Sublime text, Microsoft Visual Studio, WebStorm, RAD, Notepad++, Brackets  JavaScript Libraries Angular.js, Angular 2, Angular 4, Angular 5, jQuery, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap.js, React.js, Socket.io  Methodology Agile, Waterfall  Version Control Tools Git, Apache Subversion, CVS  Web Services SOAP, RESTful  Build Tools Jenkins, Maven