Senior Web Developer (Full Stack) Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Full Stack) Senior Web Developer (Full Stack) - Vital Pharmaceuticals Sunrise, FL More than 13+ years of systems architecture, object oriented programming and web  architecture/applications development experience. Extensive server management(Linux/Debian based);  Fluent in English and Spanish. Work Experience Senior Web Developer (Full Stack) Vital Pharmaceuticals - Weston, FL February 2019 to Present Manage and maintain all of the VMs (Virtual Machines) for the company on the Google Cloud  Platform  ? Create VMs and setup the LAMP stack (Linux, Apache2, MySQL and PHP)  ? Setup and maintain all web sites WordPress instances  ? Setup and maintain instance groups, VPC Networks and load balancers for bang-energy.com and All European sister sites (total of 8 sites)  ? Setup backend bash scripts and Cron jobs for overnight processing of database backups;  Additionally setup rsync/Curl scripts for file synchronization between servers within the local  internal network.  ? Assist front-end developers with PHP/Javascript/CSS code debugging when needed  ? Create backend reports for the marketing/accounting department through the use of PHP, MySQL and Javascript  ? Create documentation of all web development procedures and Google Cloud Platform  ? Setup and manage the corporate GIT repository (Private) Senior Web Developer (Full Stack) Orchid Insurance - Vero Beach, FL September 2017 to February 2019 Manage and maintain the main corporate website through the use of WordPress.  ? Use of PHP(back end) and Robo3T  ? Use of MySQL/MariaDB, Mongo DB  ? Use of JQuery/Bootstrap + JSon  ? Setup and manage the company wide SSO(Single Sign-On) process using SAML2.0; Create  BRD's(Business Requirements Documents) per client as needed.  ? Extensive use of JQuery, JQueryUI, JavaScript, PHP, SASS, CSS and Bootstrap on external  platforms  ? Setup and maintain web development servers environment.  ? Using Redhat Linux + Apache2  ? Using Git and Bitbucket source control/versioning.  ? Collaborate with DB teams, Marketing and IT to roll out new products and services to the agent  facing agency dashboard. Senior Software Architect / IT Administrator Financial Recovery Group, Inc - Miami, FL August 2005 to September 2017 Managed a small team(3) of software engineers, QA(1) and delegate IT related tasks.  ? Maintain and designed(UX)/develop new applications for partners(in the HMO industry) using HTML4/5, CSS2/3, Coldfusion, PHP(WordPress), AJAX, JQuery+UI, Bootstrap, Ext JS 4 and some AngularJS 2.  ? Work with SAML2.0 to complete single sign on processes for our clients.  ? Create wireframe mockups and translate to UI html/css designs.  ? Enhanced/redesign existing sites with bootstrap and jquery.  ? UI enhancement to our main application platform AccuReports.  ? Perform database reviews and document findings to make improvements when necessary.  ? Develop internal tools for reporting and file server communications.  ? Design web applications in both PHP and ColdFusion.  ? Maintain the company's internal/External Network and handle all IT related tasks, such as server setups(Windows/Linux(Debian|Ubuntu), database administration, Firewalls and Middleware  appliance maintenance(Cisco ASA 5505/5506).  ? Setup and maintained network IPSEC and VPN security using Cisco 5505/5506 appliances. Web Developer Rewards Network - Miami, FL April 2004 to August 2005 Maintain and develop new applications for internal corporate sites as well as partner sites using HTML, JSP, Coldfusion, PHP and ASP.  ? MS SQL Server data modeling, performed Transact SQL queries and importing /exporting excel files to and from MS SQL Server.  ? Created JHTML (Dynamo Application Server) pages as needed and extensive use of Macromedia  Fireworks and Photoshop.  ? Used MS Visio to design applications and web site diagrams.  ? Maintain and create corporate articles for partner sites. Web Developer Young & Rubicam / Robert Half - Miami, FL February 2004 to March 2004 Develop online content management software application using ASP.  ? MS SQL Server data modeling, performed Transact SQL queries, database backup/restore, importing  /exporting excel files to and from MS SQL Server.  ? Created HTML pages as needed and extensive use of Macromedia Fireworks.  ? Used MS Visio to design applications and web site diagrams. Web Developer Americatel Corp - Miami, FL May 2001 to July 2003 Built operations end of organization's web sites and keep them running smoothly. Designed, built, implemented new pages and sites; integrating sites with back-end applications.  ? Used a variety of web development languages such as: PHP, Coldfusion MX, ASP, JavaScript, Visual  basic, Actionscript and XML.  ? Developed CRM and Online content management tools for internal office use.  ? Designed and assisted with online and offline marketing materials.  ? Develop an assortment of online shopping carts for the 123.com portal (ISP) and pre-paid calling cards. Web Developer(eCommerce) Yahoo Inc - Miami, FL November 2000 to April 2001 Created store mock-ups using HTML, JavaScript, PHP, Perl and ASP; plus extensive use of Photoshop, Fireworks and Dreamweaver.  ? Management of all Latin America Yahoo stores.  ? Developed online stores or adapted client's code to the Yahoo store proprietary model. Web Developer(eCommerce) IBM - Fort Lauderdale, FL April 2000 to October 2000 Provided object-oriented design, programming and implementation support to the online ecommerce  store, written in Perl, JavaScript and HTML.  ? Gathering and implementation of final products provided by the PSG (Personal Systems Group) marketing  department.  ? Manage and maintained e-commerce sites for six Latin American countries  ? Optimized the IBM Latin America e-commerce site for download and search engine  compatibility through the use of meta-tags and keywords. Education BA in Business Administration in track American Intercontinental University 2006 to 2010 Visual Miami Dade Community College Continuing Education Program 2003 BA in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems City Tech University - Brooklyn, NY 1996 to 1999 Skills Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Perl, Subversion, Vb.net, Xml, Ajax, Asp, Coldfusion, Css, Asp.net, Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Pl/sql, Sql, Linux Additional Information INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SKILLS  Languages  Proficient in: PHP5,7, ASP, JavaScript, Coldfusion MX/7/8/9/10/11, CSS/CSS2/CSS3,  HTML4/5, XHTML, XML, Transact SQL, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap, JQuery frameworks, Ext JS 4 and  Angularjs/Electron.  Familiar with: PL/SQL, Perl, Actionscript, ASP.NET, VB.NET    GitHub Repository  https://github.com/reya276/portfolio    Software  Database: MySQL/MariaDB Servers, MS SQL Server and Access  Platforms: Apache2, Linux/Debian/Ubuntu/CentOS Servers, Windows Server 2003, SBS 2003,  Windows 7/8/ 10, Google Cloud Platform  Additional Skills:  Photoshop, Inkscape, GIMP, MS Office, DIA Diagram,  LibreOffice 4/5, Eclipse/Aptana Studio 3, Atom, MySQL Workbench, Server Management(Linux based),  Subversion/Git and Nagios configuration and monitoring tools. Cisco ASA and 5505/5506 firewalls.