Director of Technology Director of Technology Web Application Developer Port Orchard, WA I have over 18+ years experience building websites from your small maw and paw, to large corporation, and responsive mobile development. I am looking for full or part time remote work. I have successfully worked from my home office for the majority of my career. I am very passionate about development and I am always looking forward to the next great site. I have extensive experience in Coldfusion, HTML, JS, css, MS SQL Server, and many other languages as well as Content Management Systems such as WordPress, Drupal, Squarespace and Shopify.    I pride myself on getting up to speed quickly documentation or not. I can look into the code or backend and gain an understanding of the site and/or system. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Technology Beautytap February 2018 to Present An international ecommerce site with sales in excess of 1,000,000+. An AWS hosted Wordpress site, I am the lead developer and the technical director. I manage several international teams of developers. I assist with SEO, AWS infrastructure, requirements and site planning. The company started in 2017 and continues tremendous growth.  My day to day includes  • Launched new Brand AZNlabs.com utilizing Shopify.  • AWS maintenance  • Rakuten Logistics  • Drip Ecommerce CRN  • CDN and cache management  • Web development and custom component creation  • Demos to admin/marketing team  • SEO optimization  • Mentoring junior developers  • Site analytics and adwords setup and monitoring  • Develop ad campaigns  • Managing 3 teams of developers Web Developer/Consultant CP Designs - Silverdale, WA July 2004 to Present • Administer/develop multiple web sites across the US.  • Develop file recovery tool  • Back end and front end development.  • MS SQL Server consultant.  • Database Migration – Access 2000 to Access 2013.  • Ecommerce integration with authorize.net  • Provide web development/support for Santa Monica School District  • Provided Tier 3 support on web/software products for an international real estate investment firm.  • Web Application Development using Coldfusion and/or PHP.    Most recent websites:  www.verinanobeauty,com - Shopify site for a Startup  www.verinano.com - WordPress corporate site  aznlabs.com - Shopify site for a new brand  beautytap.com - Wordpress site Web Application Developer ECConnect - Seattle, WA November 2013 to October 2015 • Develop/maintain front end GUI for MVNO/telecommunication Company.  • Create SOAP API to provide vendors interaction to our systems.  • Create process flows and documentation.  • Work with a team of developers in an agile environment  • Utilize Git for version control with SourceTree  • Integrate with AWS SQS to run jobs asynchronously.  • Update old code base to more current optimized version. Senior Web Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA March 2008 to November 2013 • Help recreate T-Mobiles internal web experience for the employees.   • Reduce redundancy by creating a centralized repository for information.  • Create SDD to plan for and streamline development.  • Support for internal web systems and improve user experience.  • Administer/Develop/Manage department SharePoint sites.  • Develop/Manage weekly newsletter application that automates many steps required for newsletter submission.  • Lead developer, provide code reviews and guidance when needed  • Help bring the T-Mobile brand promise to life by designing and implementing the MyFaves applications  • Document acceptance testing procedures  • Document software design specifications   • Communicate weekly with OEMs such as Nokia, LG, Samsung, and Qualcomm   • Develop working demos/prototypes.   • Take Style Guides and flip them into interactive Flash Applications.  • Invent new ideas and turn them into reality to help improve the UX. Senior Coldfusion Developer Callison - Seattle, WA May 2000 to March 2008 Ability to create/review project proposals and determine if they are in line with the  Company's vision.  Perform advanced level development of new applications that support business goals as required.  Perform advanced level software customization.  Maintain up to date documentation for projects.  Serve as an advanced level programming resource and/or lead for projects.  Serve as a programming mentor for Web Application team members.  Participate in all database and web-related projects and processes, and report to  Management as required.  Install, maintain and upgrade web and database servers and associated software per  server standards.  Manage and maintain development procedures and processes for the Web and  Database systems group. Education Bachelor of Arts in Management Information Systems Washington State University Skills MS SQL Server (10+ years), .NET, PHP, Coldfusion (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), MySQL, Responsive Web Design, AJAX, AWS, Adwords, Google Analytics, JQuery, AngularJS, Merchant Services Integration, WordPress, Squarespace, CMS, Mobile Development, Web Application Development, Excellent Problem Solving Skills, Software Development Life Cycle, Agile Development, Technical Support, API, SOAP, REST, SEO, Photoshop Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/chris-pettigrew-6b22067/