UX Designer UX Designer UX Designer - Ideal Living Sherman Oaks, CA One word that has been at the center of much of my life is why. Exploring why has broadened my understand-ing of the world and myself. So, I think it is important to offer why.   I have had many great experiences and accomplishments, it wasn’t until I explored design that I truly found my thing. I am without a doubt design-obsessed. One reason for my obsession is that I am drawn to beauty, and good design offers beauty. I also find it impossible to resist good storytelling, and good design is good storytelling. Finally, I hold critical thinking in the highest possible esteem, and good design demonstrates good critical thinking.   That is why I design. Work Experience UX Designer Ideal Living - Sherman Oaks, CA January 2019 to Present Provide creative guidance on the overall look, feel and functionality of web applications for 20+ brands.   Designs user-centered, functional, innovative and easy-to-use web interfaces that will optimize conversions across all e-commerce web applications, including digital marketing and direct-to-consumer websites, landing pages, blogs, microsites, and email marketing campaigns. Utilize UX principles to determine effective design solutions.  Provide front-end development and CMS integration support to ensure smooth transition to new platform.   Conduct usability tests and analyzes user behavior information to improve overall user experience. Web Designer/ Developer Thinklogic - El Segundo, CA February 2017 to December 2018 Design and develop a variety of web applications, including landing pages, entire site redesigns, dashboards, mobile apps.   Responsible for entire UX and UI design processes, including site assessment, initial ideation, quick sketches, wireframes, and mockups.  Responsible for completing front-end development utilizing HTML, CSS, jQuery, and various frameworks and libraries to prepare for CMS implementation.   Serve as Project Manager for design and front-end phases for large scale projects.  Provide website maintenance for a variety of Content Management Systems, including Kentico and WordPress.   Develop Wordpress sites, including site configuration and customization, theme and plugin sourcing, installation, and customization. Web Designer/ Developer Confluence - Los Angeles, CA May 2016 to November 2016 Designed websites for organizations, from landing page to entire site redesigns. Worked in all aspects of design process. Developed Wordpress sites, including site configuration and customization, theme and plugin sourcing, installation, and customization, and trouble shooting.   Utilized Sketch, Illustrator, Photoshop, CSS, HTML, PHP, and jQuery. Created a wide range of digital collateral such as HTML emails, animated GIFs, and banner ads. Instructor/Administrator The Art Institute - Santa Monica, CA June 2000 to November 2015 aught a variety of General Education courses in both on-ground and online modalities.Provided student-centered learning that encouraged student engagement and responsibility. Developed and implemented learner-centered lesson plans and syllabi for English Composition, Creative Writing, Story Writing, Journalism, Remedial English, and Conceptual Storytelling courses. Education Bachelor's in Web Design The Art Institute - Los Angeles, CA January 2013 to February 2015 Master's in Creative Writing National University - Orange County, CA July 2004 to July 2006 Master's in Education Argosy University-Orange County - Orange, CA August 2002 to May 2004 Bachelor's in English Cal State Fullerton - Fullerton, CA August 1997 to June 1999 Skills Web design (4 years), Wordpress (4 years), Html/CSS (4 years), Bootstrap, jQuery (2 years), Ms office, Branding, Problem solving, User Experience Design (3 years), Sketch (4 years), Wireframing, Adobe Creative Suite (5 years), User Interface Design (3 years) Links http://jonddesign.com Certifications/Licenses User Experience Design April 2018 to May 2018