Web Designer <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer Digital designer with 10+ years worth of customer service experience. Peoria, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer Freelance - Peoria, AZ September 2018 to Present • Designed multiple logos using Photoshop and/or Illustrator  • Created and tested websites with an emphasis on responsive design  • Produced newsletter mockups using a combination of Photoshop & Dreamweaver Driver Lyft - Peoria, AZ November 2016 to November 2018 • Created and maintained a welcoming environment by greeting passengers, double checking routes, and accommodating additional and/or alternative directions  • Never received a traffic citation  • Never involved in an accident  • Accumulated more than 100,000 miles  • Received more than 700 hundred positive reviews Web Developer I JBA Network, INC - Peoria, AZ January 2009 to November 2016 My core responsibility was to create and maintain high quality client content and to ensure maximum compatibility of that content across multiple platforms. This included:     Solution Development and Delivery  • Assisting in the design, coding, and testing of technical solutions.  • Understanding standard systems development lifecycle processes and applied methodology effectively on client projects.  • Applying knowledge of industry trends and developments to improve service to our clients.    Project Execution  • Understanding of project and development plans to clearly articulate roles, project goals, and timelines.  • Adhering to coding standards defined by technical management.  • Establishing responsible deadlines and personal work plans.    Professional Development  • Understanding the professional development process and being actively involved by setting challenging goals and meeting them through continuous learning.  • Seeking input from mentors and supervisors.  • Actively applying feedback received to day-to-day work and striving to improve performance. Education Bachelor's in Game Design Collins College - Phoenix, AZ October 2006 to April 2009 Skills Jquery, HTML 5, CSS, Graphic Design, PSD to HTML, Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Responsive Design, Customer Service Links http://jeffcorbitt.portfoliobox.net