Freelance Web and Mobile Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> and Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Web and Mobile Developer - Tim Veedahl Middleton, WI I am an experienced web, mobile, and data software developer. I have significant expertise with technologies that are PHP or Python based and am knowledgeable regarding responsive design and hybrid mobile development. Additionally, I am passionate about data and its utilization in the decision-making process. I have completed degrees in both Software Development and Sociology. Work Experience Freelance Web and Mobile Developer Tim Veedahl - Middleton, WI August 2014 to Present ? Utilized previously coded Wordpress portfolio theme, WooCommerce, PHP, MySQL, JSON, jQuery, and Bootstrap to create professional freelance website  ? Coded creative professional portfolio theme using Underscores Wordpress starter theme  ? Provided Magento Enterprise Edition roles and security solution utilized by Augment in a bid proposal to Suttle Straus Web and Mobile Developer HS2 Solutions - Chicago, IL August 2011 to August 2014 ? Implemented new functionality for and added content to multiple websites built using Wordpress, PHP, and MySQL  ? Produced cross-browser compliant web applications based on client provided comps using PHP, XHTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON, and MySQL  ? Designed and coded custom analytics web application utilizing the Google Analytics Reporting API, PHP, JSON, HTML, and CSS  ? Supported physician recruiting site built with CakePHP and MySQL  ? Collaborated on cross-platform mobile prototype for Domino's Pizza using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery Mobile, and Mustache  ? Utilized D3.js and matrix data to program chord diagram that conveyed insights regarding Domino's Pizza web presence ROI  ? Architected responsive Email Dashboard using Bootstrap, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, and JSON  ? Worked with team to redo existing chocolate fundraising e-commerce website for World's Finest Chocolate using Magento Enterprise Edition 1.14, PHP, and HTML Web Developer (contract) TrafficCast - Madison, WI April 2011 to April 2011 ? Repaired bugs and added new functionality for website created using Drupal 6 company was building for OnStar Web Developer (contract) TrafficCast - Madison, WI April 2011 to April 2011 ? Advised regarding the addition of optical related products to e-commerce website agency was building using Magento version 1.5.0.1 Web Developer Two Peas in a Bucket - Madison, WI July 2009 to February 2011 ? Rebuilt existing e-commerce website using Magento, PHP, HTML, CSS, XML, and MySQL  ? Refactored, produced, and managed three additional e-commerce websites using Pylons, Python, HTML, CSS, jQuery, and PostgreSQL  ? Demonstrated mastery of object-oriented programming, MVC architecture, and object-relational mapping concepts Student Programmer Wiscnet - Madison, WI November 2008 to May 2009 ? Maintained agency's portal website using ASP.NET 1.1, C#, NHibernate, and SQL Server 2005  ? Generated documentation regarding the structure and functionality of agency's portal website  ? Engineered custom Google map utilizing the Google Maps API, JavaScript, PHP, and MySQL Data Warehouse Intern Boumatic - Madison, WI May 2008 to September 2008 ? Documented file structure and folder contents of multiple VmWare servers  ? Standardized company's operating procedure for Cognos development and database refreshment  ? Developed batch scripts to automate ETL processes within a SQL Server 2005 and Cognos 8.3 environment Software Developer Cognos - Madison, WI July 2007 to April 2008 ? Created reports using Cognos 8.3 Report Studio and J.D. Edwards, solicited feedback, and modified reports to ensure end-user satisfaction  ? Supported end-users regarding Cognos 8.3 and J.D. Edwards suite of applications  National Wildlife Health Center, Madison, WI - Software Developer  JUL 2007 - APR 2008  ? Programmed Netvibes widget using JavaScript, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, and Universal Widget API  ? Wrote operating procedure illustrating how to backup and restore agency's blog  ? Solicited project requirements and developed Java time management application Human Services Specialist Tellurian UCAN, Inc - Madison, WI July 2003 to July 2006 ? Collected, cataloged, and analyzed staff and client clinical interaction data using SPSS and descriptive statistics to acquire agency funding from billing Crisis Stabilization Education B.S. in Software Development Herzing University - Madison, WI July 2006 to May 2009 B.A. in Sociology Luther College - Decorah, IA February 2000 to December 2002 Waldorf College - Forest City, IA August 1998 to May 1999 Skills JQuery (9 years), Javascript (9 years), PHP (9 years), Python (3 years) Links https://github.com/tveedahl https://www.linkedin.com/mwlite/me