Developer/ Owner <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Owner Owner/ Developer - Perfect 10 Media, LLC Atlanta, GA Seasoned web/ user interface developer with experience in producing high-quality digital experiences for well-known brands. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer/ Owner Perfect 10 Media - Atlanta, GA 2009 to Present ? Prototype and implement front-end/ client-side web and mobile experiences for various clients including interactive agencies, non-profits, and small businesses  ? Design, develop, and support content management system implementations for client web properties  ? Integrate front-end code with server-side components (ASP.NET, Java, and PHP) Front End Developer (contractor) Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta - Atlanta, GA August 2018 to December 2018 • Developed front end functionality for redesign/ modernization of Bank’s internal customer portal using HTML, CSS/SASS, JSP, JavaScript and Bootstrap on the Liferay Development Experience Portal (Liferay DXP) platform   • Provided user interface and design recommendations and prototypes for various portal views and components   • Collaborated with Java developers to integrate front end/ UI components with back end services  Sr. Front End Developer (contractor) Macquarium - Atlanta, GA August 2017 to June 2018 • Developed front end prototypes and templates for redesigns of client web sites using HTML, CSS/LESS, JavaScript (including jQuery, gulp.js, and AngularJS) and Bootstrap   • Collaborated with back end developer to integrate front end/ UI assets into Adobe Experience Manager content management system   • Tested and fixed new sites on various browsers and devices  Front End Developer (Contractor) Turner Broadcasting System CNN - Atlanta, GA March 2017 to July 2017 ? Developed interactive experiences and components for CNN.com using HTML, CSS/ SASS, JavaScript (including jQuery, JSON, and Handlebars), and Web pack  ? Projects included the stand-alone “Life Supported” (http://cnn.com/lifesupported) interactive  experience and an interactive card game (http://cnn.it/2t5tKje) for a story on memory athletes Developer (Contractor) SapientNitro - Atlanta, GA July 2016 to November 2016 ? For client BFGoodrich, developed initial phase of "Garage"  (https://garage.bfgoodrichtires.com/) community site for Q3 2016 launch on the Hoop.la platform using HTML, CSS/ SASS, JavaScript and AJAX  ? For client Carter’s, developed front end enhancements to Carters.com and Oshkosh.com desktop and mobile sites using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript on the Demandware e-commerce platform  ? For client Michelin, developed enhancements to "Tire comparator" single-page Javascript web application using HTML, CSS/ SASS, Javascript (including Handlebars and jQuery), and AJAX; web app is featured on touch screen kiosks in select Costco stores nationwide Developer (contractor) Sparks Grove - Atlanta, GA May 2014 to January 2016 ? Develop front end experiences for Sparks Grove clients and business development presentations using HTML, CSS, JavaScript (including jQuery, AngularJS, and D3.js), Bootstrap, PHP, and Wordpress. Clients included AT&T, Bank of America, Coca-Cola, The Home Depot, Delta Air Lines, and Wells Fargo. Developer (contractor) Hothouse - Atlanta, GA August 2013 to February 2014 ? Developed sweepstakes/ contest entry Facebook applications for various clients (including Hallmark Channel, Syfy Channel, and AMC Networks) utilizing HTML5, CSS, Javascript/ jQuery, and PHP/ MySQL  ? Developed promotional microsites (including user entry/ submission functionality) for CBS Sports Network, ESPN, Smithsonian Channel, and Syfy Channel utilizing HTML5, CSS, Javascript/ jQuery, and PHP/ MySQL  ? Developed user submission functionality (including photo editing and upload) for Little League Baseball's 75th anniversary "Big Legacy Project" (http://bit.ly/1g8KfSa) Sr. Presentation Level Developer (freelancer) Razorfish - Atlanta, GA March 2013 to July 2013 ? Developed Facebook application for Delta Air Lines utilizing HTML5, PHP, CSS3, Javascript (including jQuery and JSON), PostgreSQL and Instagram API  ? Developed custom desktop and mobile Tumblr themes for Delta Air Lines' "Taking Off" blog (http://takingoff.delta.com) re-launch utilizing HTML, CSS3, and JavaScript Web Developer LBi/ MRY - Atlanta, GA November 2012 to February 2013 ? Developed front end prototypes for Coca-Cola Sochi Winter Olympics site (https://www.coca-cola.ru/sochi2014) utilizing HTML5, CSS/ SASS, JavaScript (including jQuery), and integrated prototypes with ASP.NET Razor templates  ? Developed UI functionality for Coca-Cola's "Placelists" Spotify application utilizing HTML, CSS3, and JavaScript (including jQuery and Backbone.js) Developer (contractor) Studiocom/ VML - Atlanta, GA February 2012 to November 2012 ? Developed social media-based iPhone application for financial client utilizing the PhoneGap development platform, JavaScript (jQuery and jQuery mobile), JSON, HTML5, CSS3 and Facebook Connect  ? Troubleshot cross-browser HTML, CSS and JavaScript bugs for financial client's Facebook application (companion to iOS application)  ? Developed prototypes and interactive front end functionality using HTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript (including the jQuery library and JSON), and Photoshop for:  - Regal Cinemas redesign of RegMovies.com;  - Kleenex's Softness Worth Sharing campaign - Kleenex.com/softness;  - BarillaUS.com email campaign landing pages (also coded HTML emails) Developer (freelancer) Definition 6 - Atlanta, GA October 2011 to November 2011 ? Developed "Green Square" (http://greensquare.greenisuniversal.com/), an iPhone and Android location-based mobile application for NBC Universal (NBCU) utilizing JavaScript (Appcelerator Titanium) and the FourSquare API  ? Re-factored prototype web-based administrative interface to enable NBCU to manage Green Square's location data using PHP, MySQL, and JavaScript Web Developer Turner Broadcasting/ NBA Digital - Atlanta, GA May 2011 to October 2011 ? Developed interactive front end functionality and promotional pages for NBA.com using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Photoshop, and JSP Web Developer Turner Broadcasting/CNN - Atlanta, GA April 2010 to February 2011 ? Developed interactive front end functionality for launch of new CNN food blog eatocracy.com using HTML, CSS, JavaScript (including Prototype), and Photoshop  ? Implemented redesign of "Center Stage" internal mini-site using PHP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, and SQL  ? Developed page templates for 2010 mid term elections coverage  ? Developed HTML5/ CSS3 prototypes of CNN.com Flash assets for iPad Web Developer Turner Broadcasting/ NBA Digital - Atlanta, GA September 2009 to December 2009 ? Developed interactive front end functionality and promotional pages for NBA.com using HTML, CSS, JavaScript (including Prototype), Photoshop, and JSP, including NBA.com Twitter feed page for November 2009 NBA.com site redesign; new NBA Kids section; and new NBA Mobile Application page Web Developer Schematic - Atlanta, GA February 2009 to June 2009 ? As front end developer for BroyhillFurniture.com and LaneFurniture.com ASP.NET re-designs, developed cross-browser compatible HTML prototypes and interactive front end functionality (slideshows, carousels, dropdown menus, lightboxes/ modal windows, etc.) from design comps and wireframes using Microsoft Visual Studio 2008, HTML, CSS, JavaScript (including the jQuery library), and Photoshop Web Developer LBi - Atlanta, GA June 2008 to December 2008 ? As lead front end developer for Gracobaby.com re-design, developed cross-browser compatible XHTML prototypes and interactive front end functionality (dropdown menus, flyout menus, modal windows, etc.) from design comps and wireframes using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Flash, XML and Photoshop  ? Developed form validation for The Home Depot Mexican National team promotion microsite using JavaScript and HTML  ? Developed HTML prototypes for Simmons Beautyrestblack.com site redesign using HTML and CSS Web Developer Delta Air Lines - Atlanta, GA January 2008 to June 2008 ? In J2EE environment, developed, tested, and maintained user interface/ front end enhancements to e-commerce applications on Delta.com using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP  ? Participated in feasibility discussions and requirements gathering for enhancements Lead Web Developer (contractor) @THINK Interactive THINK Interactive - Atlanta, GA August 2007 to December 2007 ? Lead developer for Sears ServiceLive.com re-design project  ? Coordinated tasks of other THINK technical resources on the project  ? Coordinated weekly delivery of front end deliverables (HTML, CSS, JavaScript) to ServiceLive development team  ? Assisted ServiceLive development team with integration, remotely and at client site  ? Developed HTML prototypes from design comps and wireframes using Dreamweaver and Photoshop and ensure cross-browser functionality  ? Developed interactive user interface functionality from wireframes using Dojo Toolkit, HTML, and JavaScript Presentation Level Developer Perfect 10 Media, LLC - Atlanta, GA April 2007 to August 2007 ? Developed HTML prototypes for Kroger.com and Amway's Quixtar.com and SimplyNutrilite.com re-designs from design comps and wireframes using Visual Studio, Microsoft SharePoint Designer and Photoshop  ? Developed interactive user interface functionality (navigation, video, etc.) for Kroger.com and Quixtar.com re-designs from wireframes and functional specifications using HTML, JavaScript and Flash  ? Developed ASP.NET templates for Kroger.com content management system  ? Assisted Quixtar.com development team with integration on-site at Quixtar Michigan campus User Interface Engineer/ Web Developer COXnet/ Atlanta Journal Constitution 2005 to 2007 • In J2EE environment, developed content, interfaces, and graphics on AJCJOBS.com web site using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, and Photoshop  ? Re-designed front page of AJCJOBS.com to increase traffic to Career Center content  ? Developed graphics and animations for banner ads and marketing e-mails using Macromedia suite and Photoshop  ? Developed prototypes of new features and enhancements on AJCJOBS.com and Statesmanjobs.com  ? Performed user acceptance testing of new features and enhancements  ? Managed scheduling of banner ads using DoubleClick DART  ? Managed scheduling and dissemination of marketing e-mails using Bigfoot DREAM Web Designer/ Developer City of Marietta, Georgia, MIS Department 2001 to 2005 • Designed, developed and maintained content, interfaces, and graphics on City's web site, utility sites, and sites for other City-owned entities based on requirements from various City departments, officials, and employees using HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, Photoshop, and Macromedia MX suite  ? In J2EE environment, developed interactive and dynamic content on City's sites using JSP, Java and JavaScript  ? Designed custom web-based content management interfaces with MIS programmers  ? Trained internal users on the functionality of content management applications  ? Analyzed site usage utilizing WebTrends  ? Responded to citizen and user e-mails regarding technical and general questions Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Morehouse College - Atlanta, GA May 2000 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating systems: Windows; Unix; Mac OSX  Languages: HTML; JavaScript; PHP; SQL; JSP; ASP.net; XML  Software: Adobe Creative suite; Microsoft Visual Studio; Microsoft SharePoint Designer  WebTrends; MySQL; DoubleClick DART; Bigfoot DREAM; TortoiseSVN; Joomla;  WordPress CMS; Wiki/ Confluence; JIRA  Other: Cascading Style Sheets (CSS); SASS; JSON; jQuery; AJAX; Cross-browser functionality; Apache; Subversion; Git