Web Developer / Designer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Designer Web Developer Brookhaven, MS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer / Designer FH Design, LLC - Brookhaven, MS April 2016 to Present ? Meet with client to discern client needs and wants and build timeline and project plan for deliverables.  ? Design website mockups, following style and branding guidelines.  ? Design wireframes to define the information hierarchy of the design, to demonstrate the layout according to how the user is to process the information.  ? Design new websites, templates, and themes following best practices.  ? Utilize HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3 and JavaScript to create websites from concept designs (PSD).  ? Perform QC checks, as well as cross-browser testing and debugging.  ? Design and implement responsive web designs for tablet and mobile platforms.  ? Create supporting graphics for new and existing websites and online marketing initiatives.  ? Perform day-to-day website revisions, updates and other requests.  ? Manage client websites and servers remotely using CPANEL.  ? Manage workload, meeting deadlines and client expectations.    Technologies  HTML ? HTML5 ? XHTML ? Javascript ? PHP5 ? MySQL ? FTP/SFTP ? SSH ? CSS ? CSS3 ? XML? OS X 10.9 – 10.11.6 Applescript ? Unix ? Apache Web Server ? Windows 10 ? Windows Server 2012 R2    Applications  Adobe Creative Suite ? phpMyAdmin ? Google Analytics ? Visio ? Vimeo ? WordPress ? Google Webmaster Tools ? Bootstrap ? CPANEL ? GitHub ? TeamViewer Programming and I.T. Manager Pelican New Orleans - New Orleans, LA December 2015 to April 2016 ? Design website mockups, following style and branding guidelines.  ? Design wireframes to define the information hierarchy of the design, to demonstrate the layout according to how the user is to process the information.  ? Design new websites, templates, and themes for new tours following best practices.  ? Utilize HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3 and JavaScript to create websites from concept designs (PSD).  ? Perform QC checks, as well as cross-browser testing and debugging.  ? Design and implement responsive web designs for tablet and mobile platforms.  ? Create supporting graphics for new and existing websites and online marketing initiatives.  ? Perform day-to-day website revisions, updates and other requests.  ? Update and add additional functionality via API to overlay of Zaui application which is a tourism management online application.  ? Manage workload, meeting deadlines and client expectations.    Technologies  HTML ? HTML5 ? XHTML ? Javascript ? PHP5 ? MySQL ? FTP/SFTP ? SSH ? CSS ? CSS3 ? XML? OS X 10.9 – 10.10 Applescript ? Unix ? Apache Web Server ? Windows 10 ? Windows Server 2012 R2    Applications  Adobe Creative Suite ? phpMyAdmin ? Google Analytics ? Visio ? Vimeo ? WordPress ? Google Webmaster Tools ? Bootstrap ? Heroku ? Bitbucket ? Digital Signage Web Designer / Developer Mediagistc - Tampa, FL March 2012 to September 2015 Responsibilities  • Design website mockups, following client style and branding guidelines  • Design new websites, templates, and themes following best practices and integrating features and elements consistent with various products.  • Utilize HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to create websites from concept designs (PSD)  • Perform QC checks, as well as cross-browser testing and debugging  • Design and implement responsive web designs for tablet and mobile platforms  • Create supporting graphics for new and existing websites and online marketing initiatives  • Perform day-to-day website revisions, updates and other requests  • Manage workload, meeting deadlines and client expectations    Skills Used  Adobe Creative Suite • phpMyAdmin • Google Analytics • Vimeo • ModX • DNN • Google Webmaster Tools • SEO techniques and best practices • Word Press CMS, and theme design  trouble-shooting cross-browser compatibility issues, IE CSS hacks and workarounds, etc. • detail-oriented, self-motivated, highly organized, and able to work well in a team atmosphere under tight deadlines • strong desire to learn new skills, techniques, and technologies, and keeping abreast of online advancements and trends in order to keep my skill set relevant • excellent written and oral communication skills. I'm a self-motivated individual with a positive, team-oriented attitude. Senior Web Developer/System Administrator ConMed Linvatec - Largo, FL October 2006 to January 2012 • Responsible for design, implementation, and maintenance of all outward facing web sites for 6 business units using PHP and MySQL  • Conception and layout of project plan, action items and monitoring completion deadline   • Manage web servers (Xserves running OS X Server and Apache) including server setup, configuration, backup, optimization, and security. Also support all department computers  • Develop and manage Applicant Tracking System (ATS) which allows potential applicants to apply for positions at ConMed and for HR personnel to process them and generate reporting using PHP and MySQL  • Design and develop web applications including implementation of technologies for enabling mobile access  • Develop and manage content management systems using Joomla which is a PHP based CMS  • Responsible for database design using MySQL  • Design websites optimized for organic SEO (Search Engine Optimization)  • Graphic and multimedia development including live streaming HD video via the internet and interactive presentations using Flash and After Effects  • Conversion of flash sites to mobile compliant HTML5 sites  • Responsible for site usage metrics/analytics  Technologies  HTML • XHTML • Javascript • PHP5 • MySQL • CSS • XML • Actionscript 2&3 • applescript   OS X 10.5 – 10.7 • Windows XP, Vista, Windows 7 • Javascript • IIS • Applescript • Unix • Apache Web Server • Joomla  Applications  Dreamweaver • php MyAdmin • Photoshop • Illustrator • InDesign • Acrobat Pro • Flash • Premiere • Encore DVD • Final Cut Studio • Microsoft Office • iWork • iLife • Visio • Urchin 5 • Google Analytics Senior Web Developer University of South Florida - Tampa, FL July 2002 to October 2006 Designed and maintained websites for projects and programs within the College of Behavioral and Community Sciences   • Full lifecycle development of applications including project planning and milestone completions  • Responsible for ongoing reports and communication with departmental staff    Technologies  HTML • XHTML • Javascript • Classic ASP • SQL • CSS • Actionscript 2 • Windows XP • Javascript • CSS • IIS •    Applications  Dreamweaver • SQL Server • UltraEdit • Photoshop • Illustrator • InDesign • Acrobat Pro • Flash • Premiere • Encore DVD • Microsoft Office • Visio • Urchin • Visual Studio .Net 2003 • ColdFusion Web Developer Cherbonnier, Mayer, & Associates - Baton Rouge, LA October 1999 to April 2001 • Responsible for the design and graphics for multimedia projects   • Professional client care and the ability to discern and prioritize needs   • Full lifecycle development of web sites.    Technologies  HTML • DHTML • Javascript • Classic ASP • SQL • CSS • Actionscript 1 • Windows XP • Javascript • CSS • IIS     Applications  Dreamweaver • SQL Server • UltraEdit • Photoshop • Illustrator • Acrobat Pro • Flash • Microsoft Office Computer Operator/ Web Developer Dyntel Corporation - Vicksburg, MS August 1993 to September 1999 • Contractor for the US Army Corps of Engineers Waterways Experiment Station  • SAS programming   • Database design and maintenance for Oracle databases including FUDS (Formerly Used Defense Sites)  • System administrator for Sun/SGI workstations cluster (Solaris Unix & IRIX Unix)  • Web design and graphic presentations    Technologies  HTML • Javascript • PL/SQL • Windows • Solaris Unix • SAS • DOS    Applications  Dreamweaver • UltraEdit • Microsoft Office • Photoshop • Illustrator • Fireworks • Access Education Associates Degree in Computer Science Hinds College - Raymond, MS January 1993 to January 1994 University of Southern Mississippi January 1985 to January 1992 Skills CSS, Git, MYSQL, PHP, HTML 5