Web Developer / UX Engineer / UI Developer / UI Architect <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / UX Engineer / UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> / UI Architect Web Developer / UX Engineer / UI Developer / UI Architect - Versatile Labs, LLC Denver, CO Work Experience Web Developer / UX Engineer / UI Developer / UI Architect Versatile Labs, LLC August 2014 to Present Founded a company to provide technology solutions, enterprise web development, and UI architecture services.    Projects:    Cisco Systems, Senior Web Developer / UX Prototyper / UI Architect    ? Architected and developed a new upgraded UI application to manage and configure Cisco's Enterprise Collaboration Systems product that integrates voice, text, and video into network communication solutions.  ? Lead demonstrator to executives and senior management.  ? Mentored Java developers in JavaScript and Angular.    Technologies: JavaScript, Angular 1, Mongo, Node, jQuery, HTML5, SASS, Foundation, Jasmine, Protractor, Git    Business Intelligence Startup, Senior Web Developer / UX Engineer    ? Audited application user flow to address user activation and engagement issues. Presented founders with improved workflows to solve user on-boarding issues, which were well received.  ? Implemented proposed solutions in existing application codebase, using React.    Technologies: JavaScript, React, Redux, ES6, Babel, JSX, HTML5, CSS3, and Git    Digital Streaming Media Provider, Senior Web Developer  ? Engineered a prototype web application that implemented a common eCommerce solution across multiple platforms and devices, using React.    Technologies: JavaScript, React, Redux, ES6, Babel, Normalizr, Reselect, JSX, CSS, and Git    CenterStone Technologies, an eCommerce Solutions Provider, Senior Web Developer    ? Developed new features for a B2B eCommerce web application on a SaaS platform, using Angular.  ? Proposed architecture changes to address pain points in legacy codebase. Set design patterns in an exploratory project that were adopted as their next enterprise cloud architecture.    Technologies: JavaScript, Angular 1, Node, Socket.io, Backbone, Lodash, Karma, Jasmine, Bootstrap, and Git    Theorem, a Digital Marketing Solutions Provider, Senior Web Developer / UI Lead Developer    ? Developed an advertising campaign management and reporting web application, using Angular, for a "next generation" advertising kiosk that tailored the visitor's experience based on the audience's demographic. Started in a developer role and was promoted to a leadership position.  ? Led a remote team of 5 developers in two countries as UI Lead Developer. Mentored junior developers.    Technologies: JavaScript, Angular 1, Require, jQuery, LeafletJS, D3, MySQL, Bootstrap, HTML5, SASS, and Git Senior Web Developer / UI Architect Payments Startup - San Mateo, CA May 2014 to August 2014 Researched, defined, and developed an enterprise UI application architecture for external and internal web applications, using Angular.    ? Worked with founders to define requirements for marketing, sales, and operations web applications.    Technologies: JavaScript, Angular 1, jQuery, jQuery UI, Responsive Design, HTML5, CSS, and Git Senior Web Developer / Front-End Developer DocuSign - San Francisco, CA January 2014 to April 2014 Struggling project turnaround: conference website with responsive design. Met every milestone and delivered.    ? Assessed marketing website performance against industry benchmarks. Recommended solutions to senior management that were well received.    Technologies: JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, Responsive Web Design, Gumby, Bootstrap, LESS, SASS, and Git Senior Web Developer / UI Architect Merchant e-Solutions - Redwood City, CA February 2013 to January 2014 Architected, developed, and maintained the front-end portion of all web development projects. Responsibilities included collaborative planning, rapid prototyping, and development, with distributed teams in two countries.    ? Created a multilingual prototype application in support of a corporate acquisition by a Brazilian company to facilitate a shared understanding of the intended result.  ? In a team lead role, researched and created job descriptions, a phone interview script, and an in-person technical interview process. Discussed roles and responsibilities with recruiters. Interviewed candidates.  ? Designed and developed an executive financial dashboard for online budget management and reporting, and developed a payments fraud management application, written using JavaScript frameworks.    Technologies: JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, Handlebars, Mustache, I18N, HTML5, CSS3, and SVN Senior Web Developer / UI Developer UAB Health System - Birmingham, AL January 2012 to January 2013 Developed mobile HTML5 healthcare applications that met strict compliance requirements for certification under "meaningful use" standards within the HITECH Act and HIPAA for an academic medical center with 18 facilities, 27 clinics, 900 physicians, and 6000+ employees.  ? Enabled patients to securely view their healthcare history and prescriptions on their home PCs.  ? Enabled doctors and medical staff to securely view real-time, patient data on their iPads, along with other information sent from hospital medical devices.  ? Enabled nonverbal patients to communicate via an iPad - well received by patients and clinical staff.  ? Researched and assessed the major JavaScript frameworks and made recommendations for the next generation UI architecture.    Technologies: JavaScript, ExtJS 4, Sencha Touch 2, Angular 1, Bootstrap, Highcharts, jQuery, jQuery UI, Knockout, Backbone, HTML5, CSS3, and SASS Senior Web Developer / UI Architect Integrated Medical Systems International, Inc - Birmingham, AL December 2004 to January 2012 Originally hired as the first web developer for a medical device repair company. Rapidly took on an expanded role as a UI architect, responsible for the architecture, development, and maintenance of the UI portion of all web development projects. Trusted to work without supervision and make independent decisions.    ? Modernized web presence enterprise wide, that significantly increased traffic and customer engagement. Worked with all areas of the business on requirements gathering and throughout the project lifecycle.  ? Architected and developed an HTML/CSS/JavaScript front end that supported PCs, iPhones, and BlackBerrys.  ? Created and deployed a single point of access (called My Account) for real-time customer information and full self-service capabilities. Championed full adoption of My Account by personally training each salesperson. Applauded by customers as informative and easy to use.  ? Developed high-demand features including equipment repair management tools, asset management tools, financial reporting, customer to salesperson communication, and online repair order creation.  ? Mentored other developers on visual design principles and usability best practices.  ? Built a customer satisfaction survey web application for ISO 9001 compliance that included the ability to create and take surveys, report data, and direct findings to the appropriate unit.    Technologies: JavaScript, Prototype, Script.aculo.us, jQuery, jQuery UI, ASP, ASP.NET, VB.NET, Oracle 8i, TOAD, SQL Server, WebTrends, and Google Analytics Web Developer / Project Manager UAB Health System - Birmingham, AL September 2002 to December 2004 Worked on the business side for an academic medical center with 18 facilities, 27 clinics, 900 physicians, and 6000+ employees.    ? Led the recovery and remediation of a failed $1M web overhaul. Delivered a solution increasing web traffic 362% exceeding stakeholder expectations. Selected and managed vendors throughout the project lifecycle.  ? Served as a technical resource within the marketing department to get closer to the business requirements and to improve working relationships.  ? Led creation of a cohesive web presence (development, design, and content) that conformed to brand standards and accented the individual character of each unit.  ? Applied analytics experience with web traffic stats when configuring a WebTrends Enterprise Server.  ? Re-engineered the job applicant recruiting process. Designed and developed an online application and trained recruiters. Redesigned website around the new web application and process. Education Bachelor's Degree Auburn University - Auburn, AL Skills Javascript, Bootstrap, Redux, jquery, Html5, Sass, Backbone, Photoshop, React (4 years), CSS3, Front End, Front-End, Front End, Angular, Node, User Interface, UI Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster Scrum Alliance   Credential ID 532160 Additional Information Eagle Scout, Boy Scouts of America  Dale Carnegie Course