Front-End Architect Front-End Architect Senior Front-End Developer Boston, MA Internet person with a passion for pixel-perfect usability and universal accessibility. My background is in LAMP development and lately I've been enjoying the creative flexibility offered by modern front-end tools like Webpack, PostCSS, Babel and React. I love learning about new technology and enjoy few things more than reading and writing clean code. Work Experience Front-End Architect MERGE Interactive - Boston, MA March 2019 to Present • Architecting and developing internationalized, scalable enterprise web apps using ES6, React, Redux, & Immutable.js. Senior Front-End Developer Connective DX - Boston, MA January 2017 to March 2019 • Building atomic front-end components for Sitecore-based corporate & marketing sites for national corporations, using ES6, React and PostCSS.  • Developing and maintaining (as a team) an in-house Webpack developer toolkit, Fuzzy Chainsaw.  • Working on an agile team with peer-reviews and structured version control & deployment processes. Front-End Web Developer Racepoint Global / Janeiro Digital - Boston, MA February 2014 to January 2017 • Prototyping and building scalable, API-driven interfaces for organizations with big data such as Amazon, Caterpillar and SevOne with modern front-end technologies including Angular, React & Webpack.  • Crafting WordPress-based marketing sites micro-sites for brands including IBM and ARM. We took home the 2015 MITX Best B2B Marketing Website award for the work we did with IBM on their Security Intelligence project. Full-Stack (LAMP) Web Developer AMP Agency - Boston, MA November 2012 to February 2014 • Building WordPress-based corporate & marketing sites for brands such as McGraw-Hill and Hasbro.  • Rapidly prototyping and creating one-off PhoneGap & web apps, micro-sites and other campaign experiences. SugarCRM Developer Levementum - Boston, MA February 2012 to November 2012 • Building custom CRM solutions with SugarCRM for corporations such as Otterbox, Fujitsu and TaylorMade.  • Working on a large, Agile team, utilizing strict Gitflow integration & deployment processes. Web Developer New Perspective Web Solutions - Worcester, MA January 2009 to January 2012 • Working as the sole in-house developer and responsible for every facet of the build and maintenance process.  • Building small websites for local businesses with PHP, using a homebrewed CMS, Joomla or WordPress. Education Some college Skills Front End, Javascript, Angular, React, UI, HTML, HTML 5 (5 years), WordPress, Front-End, User Interface, Angularjs, jQuery, PostCSS, ES6, SASS, Webpack, Node, HTML5, CSS3 Links https://brian.staruk.net https://resume.brian.staruk.net https://github.com/bstaruk Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information I am a front-end web developer & UX architect who lives and works in Boston, MA. I have a passion for creating usable, scalable and accessible applications on the net with semantic HTML, CSS and JavaScript (ES6, React). My background is in LAMP development, having spent >5 years as a WordPress developer, but I've since traded in gulp tasks and jQuery for Webpack and Babel.