Senior PHP Developer Senior PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior PHP Developer - Cyber Coders Plano, TX • Overall 9+ years of PHP Web development experience.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in web application architecture and relational database design using PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML.  • Extensive experience in developing Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Third party API (Google API, Payment gateway API , CallKey API)  • Worked on Laravel MVC framework to manage the application.  • Experience in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Experience with Version Control tools like GIT, SVN and AWS servers for Source Code version management and merging Source code after intermittent Project releases.  • Proficiency on Responsive Web design using Custom CSS, Bootstrap, cross browser and adapt to the changing environment.  • Experience in LAMP stack to build advanced web applications and software.  • Developed key components of web application with CRUD (create, read, update, delete) functionality.  • Work on all stages of the Application development cycle beginning with client interaction, Gathering and understanding the requirements, designing Requirement documents, Defining Systems & then Development  • Experience using Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Migrated waterfall to agile methodology and effectively took part in daily Scrum meetings to deliver the tasks and project within time.  • Created and managed social media accounts including YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, and Google Plus.  • Active participant in troubleshooting failure issues and have appreciable analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills.  • Expertise in all aspects of SDLC - analysis, design, coding, testing, performance tuning, documenting, maintenance and user training  • Desire to continuously learn new languages, platforms and skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior PHP Developer Cyber Coders - Burnsville, MN October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designing in HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery for making website more attractive.  • Carried out extensive verification and testing in order to set MySQL database free from SQL injections throughout course of database development and management.  • Created Restful API's using Laravel and consumed them with AngularJS.  • Clients finalize the image prototype after that we made HTML prototype mockups.  • Collate functional, non-functional requirements and business requirements of applications and design the AWS cloud architecture that integrates with existing infrastructure without issues.  • Developed Custom Module for maintaining the inventory of applications obtained from different Web Services in JSON protocol.  • Setup testing environment for Unit Test as well as Front end testing using PHPUnit, Selenium test cases.  • In-depth knowledge of integration of RESTFUL Web Services, HTTP Services and Web Services with web applications  • Used JavaScript to make interactive site. Responsible to handle frontend side of application to make it high performance, rich and user friendly.  • Used Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for Software Development.  • Used GIT as the source control and STASH as repository.  • Involved in the maintenance of Website and application developed in Symfony2 Framework.  • Developed the middleware software components for the implementation of the Data Entry GUI for creating and editing medication instances using client side technologies viz. HTML, CSS3, JavaScript  • Used SMTP mail class of PHP for the users to send mail with suggestions. Extensive use of PHP Mailer class.  • Back end development using Symfony2, and MySQL, Handle front end using HTML, SSL, JQuery and CSS.  • Used and Integrated MVC architectural pattern for developing enterprise applications.  • Responsible for writing Unit tests for services, controllers and directives and used Karma to run the tests.  • Extensively modified REST HTTP service based client and server web applications  • Carried out extensive verification and testing in order to set MySQL database free from SQL injections throughout course of database development and management.    Environment: php5.6, html5, javascript, jquery, css3, angularjs, restful apis, mysql, oracle 12c, sql server 2016, aws, json, zend, lamp, symfony2, git, mysql, css, javascript, ajax, html/xhtml, xml, wordpress. Senior PHP Web Developer Kforce Inc - Phoenix, AZ September 2015 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Web pages using PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Deployed and maintained systems in XAMP environments.  • Proficient in web application development projects that required Responsive Web Design using flex-box features of CSS3.  • Proficiency on Responsive Web design using Custom CSS, Bootstrap, cross browser and adapt to the changing environment.  • Expertise in designing responsive web page using Bootstrap.  • Strong communication, problem-solving, and planning skills, with ability to work independently or in a team environment.  • Responsible for developing core foundation User-Interface packages that are to be extended / reused by many other projects.  • Coded on front-end by using AJAX to build more functionalities for websitesCreated and managed social media accounts including YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, and Google Plus.  • Integrate retrieved data with HTML templates utilizing PHP    Environment: PHP5, Linux, Apache, MySQL, LAMP, Wordpress, HTML, Ajax, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, and Git Senior PHP Web Developer CyberCoders - Kalamazoo, MI August 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Create custom PHP Helper, Models, Controller, and Component Classes.  • Retrieve MySQL data via CakePHP custom queries.  • Integrate retrieved data with HTML templates utilizing PHP.  • Create, delete and merge Git brances and feature branches with Git flow.  • Validate forms using JQuery, Ajax, and PHP.  • Utilized MySQL for persistent user data storage for non-CMS based sites.  • Developed Wordpress templates for CMS based sites.  • Modified plug-ins for CMS based sites.  • Developed PHP back end for both CMS based sites and non-CMS based sites.  • Debugged issues for both CMS based sites and non-CMS based sites.    Environment: PHP, Word press, MySQL, SVN, html, CSS, XHTML, Java script, jQuery, Ajax and Windows, CakePHP. Senior PHP Web Developer CyberCoders - Houston, TX July 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Deployed and maintained systems in LAMP and WAMP environments.  • Developed key components of web application with CRUD (create, read, update, delete) functionality.  • Writing and Optimizing MySQL Queries and connect queries to PHP.  • Developed and redesigned MySQL based email system for clients' inquiries.  • W3C validation and analytics codes implementation.  • Made heavy use of Chrome Developer Tools + Firebug to ensure front-end code and assets were optimized and high-quality.  • Validate forms using JQuery, Ajax, and PHP.  • Research and implement jQuery libraries such as lightbox, sliders, lazy loading, parallax.  • Drove multiple component design sessions parallel, creating design artifacts according to specifications.  • Utilized new software methodologies to be able to adapt to changes in requirements quickly  • Ensured that all components of the application are platform and browser compatible.  • Developed a PHP application that used a database connection coupled with dynamically created SQL statements to facilitate: list, edit, update, delete, search, and application administrative functions.  • Worked with various Application Protocol Interface ranging from payment methods to social media and communication to meet client needs.  • Utilized Google Maps API to build a store locator tool for use on company website.  • Implemented Ajax in front-end.  • Writing and Optimizing MySQL Queries and connect queries to PHP.  • Developing advanced database driven websites & systems including E-commerce.  • Developed form shopping cart transactions using PHP script to communicate with the merchant bank account. PHP mail response upon completion of purchased items.    Environment: PHP, LAMP, WAMP, CSS, HTML, JQuery, JQuery UI, AJAX, SQL and Windows. PHP Web Developer Vaco - San Diego - San Diego, CA June 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Dynamic web site design and developing using PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, AJAX.  • Testing and validating work produced as part of the development process.  • Created HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DHTML pages for Presentation Layer.  • Implemented various Search Engine Optimization techniques as metadata, building inbound link, and outbound link text, meaningful title while designing web pages.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Applied client side validations using JavaScript and jQuery  • Built HTML and CSS system for controlling text display issues cross-platform and cross browser.  • Back end development and maintenance of Inbound and Outbound Dialer for Gimbans & Gsimtel Dashboard.  • Built executive dashboard using PHP and MySQL that displays near-real time sales and production data to executive team.    Environment: PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, AJAX, Firebug and Windows. PHP Developer NIC Inc - Little Rock, AR May 2008 to June 2009 Responsibilities:  • Design and Developing the Dynamic website using WAMP Technologies.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  • Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load  • time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens.    Environment: PHP, WAMP, JavaScript, XML and Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills PHP (10+ years), AJAX (9 years), HTML (9 years), jQuery (9 years), MYSQL (9 years) Additional Information Technical Summary:  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, Bootstrap.  Script Language: PHP, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, NodeJS, AngularJS.  Web Servers: HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat.  MVC: Cakephp 3, Laravel.  CMS: Wordpress  IDE & Tools: Eclipse, Notepad++, Dreamweaver, Atom, EditPlus, JSfiddle  Debugging Tools: Chrome Developer Toolbar, Firebug, IE Developer Toolbar, Safari  Database: PL/SQL (oracle), MySQL  Operating System: Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8/10, UNIX, LINUX, MAC OS X