Manager of R&D Manager of R&amp;D Wichita, KS Proven technical leader who has worked with executive teams to provide input on strategic direction as well as  understand and work with forecasting and financial details. Experience interacting directly with clients at users'  group meetings, conferences and on-site visits. Skilled at working with multiple departments and disciplines to  accomplish successful projects, such as the recent server migration project for go.edustar. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Manager of R&D Student Information Solutions (SIS) October 2011 to Present • Managing development team with up to 25 members including full-time, full-time contractors and part- time contractors  • Management of up to 9 SIS, messaging, and enrollment products  • Worked as a member of the leadership team to determine the strategic direction for each product  within our group  • Departmental forecasting on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis including reconciliation with actual  financial details each month  • Integration of team members from acquisition into our larger team  • Work with each product to determine road-map goals, customer needs and time lines    Team/Leadership Experience:  • Lead developer managing cross functional team for State reporting initiative  • Project lead for SIF Agent development and implementation including outside contractor management.  • Member of the team designing and programming the new go.edustar Student Information System  (2006) • Represented Go.edu/Harris and SIS products/services at SIFA, industry standards association, conferences and monthly working groups  • Respond quickly to meet customers immediate needs by proactively working with the Customer Support  Team    Project Management Experience:  • Managed planning, testing and execution of recent move of go.edustar application into AWS which included upgraded versions of SQL, PHP, Windows Server, IIS, and SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Implementing a well-rounded student management application using PHP, IIS, SQL Server 2017 and Reporting Services. The application includes parent, student, online grade book and state reporting  portals.  • Design and implement rapid future development structures with a focus on simplifying maintenance  requirements by developing flexible and reusable code.  • During the rewrite of our student screens this structure reduced development of user friendly state  specific screens from months to days.  • Developing Software As A Service (SAAS) system managing; challenges, opportunities and appropriate  solutions  • Creating consistent, user friendly, experience throughout all system interfaces to enhance the ease of use.  • Develop and maintain account and security structure for go.edustar, parent, student and state reporting  portals Go.edu - Wichita, KS February 2006 to Present Key roles, responsibilities and projects include: Web Developer Sports Endeavors, Inc - Hillsborough, NC March 2004 to October 2005 Member of the Online Properties team maintaining and updating the eCommerce sites www.soccer.com and www.lacrosse.com. Projects including new product information database, username/password retrieval as well as an automated feedback system with tracking.    123Hire Charlotte, NC Senior Developer (remote) May 2002 to September 2003 May 2002 - November 2002 through Apex Systems)  • Developed Career Management tools for job seekers assisting in tracking their job search activities, resume posting and submission and skills training  • Developed Candidate tracking portal for employers to manage open positions and potential candidates  by providing skills testing, background checks, applications and other HR related tasks  • Developed tools for invoicing, sales reporting and contact management. Web Application Developer Orion International - Raleigh, NC March 2001 to April 2002 • Developed interactive company website.  • Developed secure intranet site that includes business applications including: Expense reporting tool, Lead tracking tool, Job order tracking application, online help desk application, Sales tracking tool, etc. Senior Application Developer ExtraPress, Inc - Raleigh, NC August 2000 to March 2001 Developed a Content Management System allowing small to medium sized newspapers to publish a daily online  edition without a Web development staff or knowledge of HTML and other web technologies.  http://www.extrapress.com.    AwayMed Cary, NC Web Developer Leverage open-source Web technologies April 2000 to August 2000 Assisted in the creation of Web-based Physician's Portal that served as a gateway for practice managers  to AwayMed and partner applications  • Support the management team with the creation of presentation materials  • Leverage open-source Web technologies (Linux, Apache, Perl, and PHP) to set up, develop and maintain  corporate and consumer website and proprietary web technologies. IBM developerWorks - Research Triangle Park, NC July 1999 to April 2000 Formatted articles for inclusion on the developerWorks web site using HTML and CSS. Also, maintained and updated Lotus Domino entries to support the dynamic functionality of the site.  http://www.ibm.com/developerWorks/ Marketing Manager The Solution Center - Durham, NC August 1998 to July 1999 Created and maintained the company website and all marketing/promotional material. Worked with president and sales manager on lead development and sales strategy. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Marketing University of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC 1998 Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Php, Ms sql server reporting services, Sql server reporting services, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Css, Iis, Apache, Linux, Linux/unix, Unix Additional Information Skills  PHP, Git, IIS, MySQL, MS SQL Server, MS SQL Server Reporting Services, JavaScript, HTML, Cascading Style Sheets  (CSS), Apache, Linux/Unix