Sr. Web Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web Developer - ADP Inc Wayne, NJ • Over 10 years of diverse experience software development and 9 years of Experience in Front-end Development as a Designer and Developer for User Interface with proficiency in big data Analytics using simplified UI in for Financial, Health Insurance, HR/Payroll, Retail and Telecommunications Clients.  • Extensive experience in developing professional User Interactive (UI) of Web applications with the help of HTML/HTML5, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, and CSS/CSS3 making webpage cross browser compatible.  • Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC in the browser, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, JSONP etc.  • Expertise in using latest JavaScript stack like Angular2/7(V2 onwards), React (16.8 onwards) and also Angular 1.  • Apt in utilizing TypeScript, ES6 and vanilla JavaScript for enterprise level app development.  • Utilized High charts and D3JS for Big Data Analytics and created crisp graphs in UI.  • Used RxJS, ngRx for reactive programming with latest technology stack.  • Worked with AXIOS, Angular http and jQuery rest for REST based UI development  • Used SASS and LESS for better CSS development. Hands on experience with Twitter Bootstrap and Angular Material Design as CSS framework.  • Used Karma, Chai, Jasmine for Angular and AngularV2(onwards) project unit testing and ngMock, tsMockery, Spy for mock API unit testing  • Utilized Jest, enzyme, axios mock adapter for React project unit testing.  • Familiar with Selenium with web drive for E2E testing.  • Worked with Webpack for React and Angular development, experienced with Babel for transpiration for TypeScript, ES6 and ReactJS. Used JSLint, TSLint for code hardening.  • Apt in Gulp, bower and Yarn and npm as package manager  • Used NodeJS with express for JavaScript based backend development, and worked with SQL, MySQL drivers for node and also conceptualized NoSQL MongoDB.  • Dockerizing app container using Docker File and Docker Deployment pipeline. Used Jenkins for automated CI/CD.  • Presently working with GIT, GIT flow and Bitbucket. Worked with SVN in past.  • Using Rally, Jira, Confluence and Bit Bucket for Project management.  • Excellent communication skills, team player, quick learner and self-motivated and embracing Agile Development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Web Developer ADP Inc May 2016 to Present Responsibilities: (Two Projects)  Project Name: Data Cloud Mobile App  • Using Angular V2/6 and Typescript convert web application to HTML/CSS based mobile app.  • Deliver high end graphs using HighCharts and D3JS on mobile device.  • Use native functions such as geo location and sharing inside JavaScript / TypeScript domain.  • Used RxJS and ngRx for reactive programming.  • Used AJAX calls to fetch data in JSON format from the server using Angular HTTP.  • Used GIT as version control system t manage project.  • Worked on Agile method using Rally portal.  • Used Chrome Developer tool, Android Developer and Xcode to debug code.  • Created cross browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Extensively used Angular2 testing framework like Karma, Jasmine etc. for unit testing.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various Browsers.    Project Name: DataCloud Web App  • Upgrade old codebase to ReactJS based modern MVC application and improve scalability. Enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint  • Used Redux and React Context API for state management and React Router for view management.  • Used AXIOS for http REST based JSON API call.  • Created React Component Library for use across entire company brand.  • Improved performance of app using concepts like Lazy loading and infinite scrolling.  • Used Jest, Enyme and AXIO mock for unit testing and Selenium web driver for E2E testing.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Extensively used SQL Developer for debugging data related issues for writing code.  • Worked with an Agile, Scrum development methodology and used Rally as tracking.  • Involved effectively in all stages from requirements gathering sessions to completely implement the application into production.  • Worked along with designers, testers and project manager.  • Involved in deriving the functional requirements from the business requirements.  • Involved in bug fixing and new feature implementation. Sr. Web Developer Merck & Co - Boston, MA June 2013 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Upgraded existing JSP based couped application inti stand alone MVC architecture application using AngularJS (angular 1).  • Used CSS media query along with Bootstrap to make web pages responsive.  • Used AJAX calls to fetch data in JSON format from the server.  • Used GIT as version control system manage project.  • Worked on Agile method using Rally portal.  • Used Chrome Developer tool and firebug to debug code.  • Created cross browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Extensively used AngularJS to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Used Jenkins for CI/CS process. Sr. Web Developer Nuestar - Sterling, VA November 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing user interfaces using AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XHTML, jQuery  • Involved in developing the responsive web pages for mobile, tablet and desktop using CSS3 media queries and fluid grid system.  • Used Angular JS in developing single page applications.  • Created cross browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Extensively used jQuery to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Implemented Model View Controller architecture using Java Sever Faces at presentation tier and Facelets as view technology.  • Development of database stored procedures and triggers in PL/SQL for handling of complex functionality like input processing, business requirement handling etc.  • Extensively used Rational Application Developer and SQL Developer for writing code.  • Configured SAML to carry over user's authentication and authorization information from Vanguard (Identity Provider) and trade web (Service Provider) and integrated with trade Web through Single Sign on (SSO).  • Used PVCS for version control to maintain the UI code, subversion and nexus for middle tier code.  • Involved in preparing the status update documents and presenting the same to the client.  • Worked with an Agile, Scrum development methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work with monthly iteration, involved in sprint planning and retrospectives.  • Involved effectively in all stages from requirements gathering sessions to completely implement the application into production.  • Worked directly with designers, testers and project manager.  • Involved in deriving the functional requirements from the business requirements.  • Involved in defect fixing and new software enhancements. Java UI Developer Michael Baker - Pittsburgh, PA December 2011 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Experience includes working knowledge of the software development life cycle (SDLC) processes which includes analysis, design, development, and testing  • Worked with Scrum, an Agile Methodology of SDLC Process for day-to-day tasks  • Developed use case diagrams to validate and test the developed web application against the UI architecture  • Worked with Model View Controller (MVC) Design Framework & Backbone in developing SAP.  • Worked on Model View Controller Design Pattern using frameworks such as Backbone.  • Worked on various IDE's such as Java Eclipse 4.3, Java NetBeans, and Aptana to develop test codes  • Developed customized tables for web pages using HTML5, CSS and JavaScript in the web application  • Implemented data validation, form validation, objects, and server communication for various web applications using JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3  • Extensively worked on various web 2.0 technologies including HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, and JSP  • Worked on JavaScript, for client side validations and for capturing dynamic events  • Worked on different browser such as Internet Explorer (version 8,9,10), Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, and Mac Safari to verify browser compatibility  • Used debugging tools like Firebug and Web Inspector for debugging and testing of the web pages Web Developer Comerica Bank - Columbus, OH January 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Designed and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Designed the web applications using CSS and with the help of tags as per W3C Standards.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  • Manipulated HTML, CSS in jQuery.  • Developed the Presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens.  • Used JavaScript to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Tested/debugged web browser using Firebug.  • Utilized new software methodologies to be able to adapt to changes in requirements quickly. Web Developer Bank of India - Noida, Uttar Pradesh July 2008 to January 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed widgets using HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery Components and JavaScript.  • Implemented Ajax Frame works, jQuery tools examples like Auto Completer, Tab Module, and Calendar and Floating windows.  • Developed the jQuery widget with functionality of progressively enhancing the look and feel of web page.  • Created an actions menu with jQuery that appears when checkboxes are selected  • Used AJAX with jQuery controls for Listing all scripts in a grid and can edit it in the grid which will reflect in the database table as well (like margins).  • Used UI Development using HTML, and coded Java components which Retrieves data using SQL from Oracle database.  • Implemented DD Tab Menu in a standard compliant, 2 level tab menus. Developed JavaScript uses CSS to control all of its appearance, and plain HTML to implement the entire menu tabs and contents.  • complex user interfaces typically associated with desktop applications  • Worked on consuming JSON object creation, parsing on both clients as well as server side.  • Used CSS based design techniques to eliminate table-based layouts, and speed page loading.  • Progressively enhance form elements with jQuery to add more robust functionality.  • Made the rating range configurable that helps to modify it whenever changes occur.  • Implemented more number of skins, and combination of the CSS sprites.  • Used JQuery document to generate API documentation for JavaScript code.  • The output of JQuery Doc is API documentation formatted as a set of HTML pages including information about methods, properties, custom events and inheritance for JavaScript objects  • Coded pages using CSS in a table less environment.  • Used the concept of the sliding door to use a background image for the buttons in a navigation menu. Education Bachelors of Engineering in Engineering Saurashtra University Skills Html, Bootstrap, Reactjs, Xml, Ajax, UI, Front End, Javascript, Front-End, React