Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Baltimore, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Prometric - Baltimore, MD August 2014 to November 2017 Worked as part of a team of developers, using Agile methodology, responsible for enhancements and bug fixes for a variety of websites and applications for an international testing company. Was responsible for the team’s database deployments to dev environments utilizing TFS for file management and dacpac building and release notes for QC and production environments. Handled yearly code changes based on security audits for several different applications Web Developer Mind Over Machines - Owings Mills, MD 2011 to 2014 Worked as part of a team of programmers responsible for enhancements and bug fixes for a variety of websites for a national registry company.  * These sites are written in a combination of classic asp, .NET, Javascript, and VBScript with a SQL Server backend.  * Several of the sites are written using Dot Net Nuke and almost all of them utilized Google Analytics coding.  * Developed into one of the primary programmers for both the Tax Calendar system, a SQL Server stored procedure driven appointment system based on individual state rules for an assortment of company filings, and Entity Pro, the main registry software.  * Utilized Visual Studio's configuration management system to keep track of file changes Bartender / Assistant Stewarding Manager Hilton Hotels - Baltimore, MD 2008 to 2011 One of two managers responsible for supervising between 30 and 35 employees.  * Responsible for weekly employee scheduling and time clock management for payroll  * Worked with the HR department to interview and hire new employees  * Organized materials and advised staff for up to 50 daily events with a maximum of 3000 participants. Programmer Amtote International - Hunt Valley, MD 2005 to 2006 Assisted in the maintenance of the company's racetrack betting software using the C programming language.  * Worked with a team of about 10 people on bug-fixes and updates for a 25 year old system. Web Developer XI Group - Baltimore, MD 2004 to 2005 Developed web based application and sites with a focus on the car dealership industry  * Utilized AJAX, Java Script, and other web technologies to provide cutting edge web sites for local and national car dealerships.  * Worked along with a team of about 10 designers and developers Programmer / Assistant Database Administrator Games Workshop, Inc - Glen Burnie, MD 2003 to 2004 Maintained and updated the in-house order taking and tracking system.  * Kept track of the updates and registrations of five DLLs and the main executable for the Visual Basic ordering system.  * Created a credit card processing application using Visual Basic that worked in conjunction with a SQL Server stored procedure.  * Migrated the backend of the in-house system from our in-house Visual Basic system to an out-of-the-box program called CS3. This was accomplished by creating XML files through Visual Basic.  * Provided programming support for a group of about 40 sales staff, phone operators, and distribution specialists.  * Assisted the lead DBA with SQL Server database support and coding. Web Developer Games Workshop, Inc - Glen Burnie, MD 2001 to 2003 Assisted a team of graphic designers and content writers with web programming support.  * Provided technical support during the redesign of our entire US web site. This support included structuring of directories for customer registration, adding cookie technology, and incorporating e-commerce functions with the content.  * Created an online tournament registration and result reporting system.  * Implemented changes to the online store, such as rotating spotlight products and improved checkout functionality.  * Provided coding support for two worldwide summer campaigns. This project entailed daily statistics calculations, online battle reporting, and membership registration.  * Developed and managed a web utility that enabled our sales groups and trade stores to view location information and maps online. Developer III Retired Persons Services - Alexandria, VA 1998 to 2001 Coded, tested, and implemented new programs and reworked old code to meet company standards and functionality requirements.  * Headed up a team that rewrote the back end code of the order tracking system from Synergy to C.  * Developed the Oracle back end database and PL\SQL code to work in conjunction with outside technology for an Interactive Voice Recognition system.  * Worked as part of a team that fixed the bugs in the in-house software. Web Developer Digital Garage - Tokyo, JP 1996 to 1997 Worked with a team of programmers to develop client-specific web pages using a variety of web-based languages.  * Developed an online ordering and usage reimbursement system for AOL Japan.  * Created an online ordering system for Novell Administrator software. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Maryland University College - Baltimore, MD June 2018 to Present High school or equivalent Skills Javascript, PHP, Angular, C# Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6ebpjyllotpbpvdb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Programming Skills  Languages: C#, VBScript, ASP, HTML, SQL Server, Oracle SQL Plus, C, Perl, Python, JavaScript, Synergy, Visual Basic, Access, Pascal, PHP, XML, AJAX, .NET    Operating Systems: UNIX, Windows, DOS    Other Skills: Dreamweaver, PGP Encryption, Internet Security, Database Administration, Code Management, TFS, Agile Development