Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer Powder Springs, GA Software Engineer with over 16 years of experience. Only trained in Java and C++ coming out of college, I am self-taught in many skills. I'm always eager for new opportunities to improve and grow as a professional and individual. I take pride in maintaining a consistent and positive approach to challenging solutions. Keeping a healthy work and life balance is a key to success. Work Experience Application Developer Visionare Partners - Atlanta, GA April 2019 to August 2019 • Worked on enhancements to business logic (C# .NET 4.7.x class libraries) for internal desktop applications with data housed on MS-SQL databases.  • Logic and UI enhancements to Visual Basic .NET Windows Form applications.  • Added individual unit tests to validate output of new methods added to solutions.  • Maintained code on a centralized Team Foundation Server repository by creating branches, pushing code, managing merges, and initiating pull requests. Application Developer & Technical Lead Infosys - Atlanta, GA July 2010 to April 2019 • Responsible for maintenance and enhancement of applications, both internal and external facing.  • Utilized technologies based on C# .NET 2.0 - 4.5, ASP.NET, and Visual Studio 2008-2015.  • Worked on application enhancements which involved consuming and utilizing locally hosted web service endpoints, connecting C# .NET based applications to the service layer and databases. Modifying and creating business logic, adjusting interface elements based on JavaScript and CSS, application configuration via IIS 6 through 7.  • Managed processing of files/data between various database platforms utilizing SSIS packages, Visual Studio, Oracle SQL Developer, and SQL Server Management Studio 2008 - 2017.  • Worked daily within MS-SQL 2000 - 2014 based data warehouses. Utilized standard set of T-SQL practices such as views, joins, stored procedures, temporary tables, CTE's, and table variables. Worked on simple database designs for new line of business applications.  • Responsible for communication and technical coordination activities of development teams through multiple projects and initiatives. Shared responsibilities with project managers and business analysts in regards to documentation and change management procedures.  • Consistent and successful execution during entire tenure with no major issues during production implementation of various applications and processes. Programmer Analyst/ Web Developer Total Systems Services - Columbus, GA August 2003 to February 2010 • Worked within a team developing web applications using C#, Microsoft SQL 2005, and ASP.NET based technologies.  • Modified interfaces and controls for an internal TSYS web applications using Visual Studio 2005.  • Created and modified SQL stored procedures to manage client data.  • Wrote JavaScript and CSS to modify the appearance and validation behavior of web forms.  • 4 years COBOL development, JCL, and CICS interfaces for the IBM Mainframe.  • Responsible for development and support of various scheduled processes and Mainframe programs. Education Bachelor of Computer Software Engineering in Computer Software Engineering Auburn University 2002 Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Software development, Visual basic, Database, Sql, Stored procedures, Asp, Asp.net, Team foundation server, Mvc, Cobol, Cics, Sdlc, Business intelligence Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/christopher-jairrels-3771726a Additional Information SKILLS AND STRENGTHS    • Programing - C# .NET, ASP.NET, JavaScript, HTML, ASP.NET MVC, Visual Basic, COBOL, CICS, C++  • Database and Business Intelligence - MS-SQL, SSIS, DTS, Entity Framework, Stored Procedures  • Platforms - Web Applications, Windows Forms  • Tools - Visual Studio, Team Foundation Server, GitHub  • Software Development - Waterfall SDLC  • Misc - Adaptable, Results Oriented, Self-Sufficient, Experienced in research and troubleshooting, Back-end development