Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Cary, NC Work Experience Web Developer Duke University - Durham, NC September 2013 to Present • Responsible for building and theming client sites in Drupal 7 and 8. Work with UI/UX team to figure out functional requirements and determine what modules, content types, views, etc. will be needed. Theme site to match wireframes and/or Zeplin mockups. Test final build for responsiveness, browser compatibility and accessibility.  • Add new functionality to existing Drupal sites in the form of theme and features/config changes. Push changes up from local to staging and staging to production using git and ssh.  • Maintain security of Drupal and WordPress sites with consistent updates and patching.  • Assist in creating a Drupal 8 starter kit that will be used by all Duke Web Services developers when building new D8 sites.  • Responsible for maintaining a WordPress multisite network of over 10,000 subsites. Develop custom WordPress plugins for use on subsites. Web Editor WinterIsComing.net November 2008 to February 2014 • Creator and former editor of popular fan site (avg. 30k hits a day) for the HBO series "Game of Thrones".  • Custom-designed WordPress child theme, based on the Thematic theme, using HTML, CSS and PHP.  • Responsible for producing much of the written content on the site. Created site graphics and images in Photoshop. Web Developer Autoshop Solutions - Apex, NC November 2012 to September 2013 • Responsible for building client sites either in WordPress or static HTML & PHP, utilizing SCSS for styling. Building 2-3 sites a week on average.  • Assisted in developing a custom Wordpress theme as a template for all WordPress builds.  • Designed and developed an internal site to act as a company news and bulletin board, built in WordPress. Web Designer Aramsco - West Deptford, NJ March 2010 to September 2012 • Responsible for redesigning company web site from the ground up, focusing on graphical layout and functionality.  • Coded site in HTML, CSS and Javascript/jQuery. Responsible for maintaining site and integrated new content regularly.  • Developed an interactive, fully-animated training tool using an SVG canvas and jQuery for the animations. Education Bachelor of Arts in Graphic Design Rutgers University - Camden, NJ September 2000 to September 2005 Skills Wordpress, PHP, Javascript, Front End Links https://www.duke.edu