Web Designer & Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer &amp; <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Designer & Developer - WordPress Folly Beach, SC Experienced in using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, and the application of JavaScript and PHP to deliver a product within budget and project timelines. Enjoy the full development process from collaboration with web design to the buildout and implementation final product. Work well independently but prefer the collaboration of a team environment as it provides an opportunity to learn from and share with others. Ongoing education includes reading, on-line education, attending conferences and local user group meetings. Work Experience Web Designer & Developer WordPress - Norfolk, VA December 2012 to Present Creation of custom websites and other collateral utilizing Adobe CC. Management of multiple client projects in different stages of the development cycle. Communication with clients on project status with continued customer service to ensure that client's site is up to date with latest releases and versions. Lead for the web development team CDYNE Corporation August 2016 to July 2017 requiring the analysis of current systems, management of the design and development of all new websites, and maintenance of current websites. Utilizing Microsoft Visual Studio Team Services to manage web projects and the VS IDE for the development with Bootstrap as the framework. In addition, responsible for the design of company marketing collateral, branding material, logos and UX/UI of websites. Web Application Developer/Supervisor CDYNE Corporation - Chesapeake, VA May 2015 to July 2017 Web Application Developer The Primm Company - Norfolk, VA April 2010 to May 2015 A small family owned advertising agency where the responsibilities included full service website development as well as managing/leading website projects from initial proposal, through design concept to production within a designated budget and timeline for a variety of clients. As the first and at the time the only developer on staff an attention to detail was required to maintain the high standards of the company. Student Billing/Accounts Receivable Norfolk Collegiate School - Norfolk, VA August 2005 to May 2009 Utilizing Blackbaud software solutions for generation and production of monthly billing statements in addition to maintenance of individual billing accounts. Effective positive communication with individuals responsible for payment on accounts was an important aspect of the position.    Independent Software Consultant/Owner Chesapeake, VA  LLC Consulting, Inc.  Provided IT services from project conception to end user training in an object-oriented programming/development environment. Required management of personal and team schedules in order to complete projects on or prior to scheduled delivery dates. This was accomplished through the establishment of effective project proposals, budgets and time lines. Education Certification in Certification Web Development Tidewater Community College - Chesapeake, VA August 2011 Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Management Information Systems and Finance University of South Carolina - Columbia, SC Skills ADVERTISING (5 years), PROJECT MANAGEMENT (8 years), MARKETING (Less than 1 year), SEO, BOOTSTRAP (Less than 1 year), CSS (9 years), CSS, MYSQL (8 years), HTML 5 (4 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/lucyconn Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS    • Adobe Creative Cloud (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, and Dreamweaver)  • HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 with additional experience in PHP and JavaScript  • Microsoft Office - Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote  • Creation of responsive custom themes/websites in WordPress using child themes or from scratch.  • Experience utilizing frameworks for website development (Bootstrap and Angular Materials)  • Creation of surveys/questionnaires to identify audience interaction and needs.  • Development of flow charts to establish application structure and flow.  • Design of wireframes to determine the appearance and functionality of the website on multiple platforms.  • Thorough knowledge of website backend setup (FTP Client, cPanel and other server related skills)  • Custom email marketing solutions  • Complete understanding and application of SEO practices in website development  • Managing/Leading multiple projects at different points in the development cycle  • Effective time, organizational and communication skills. Required skills to support project management goals as a freelancer and the sole web developer at a small advertising agency  • Enjoy learning new skills to enhance or build upon current skill set