Senior ColdFusion Developer Senior ColdFusion <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior ColdFusion Developer - US Department Of Labor College Park, MD Over twenty years in the field of information technology have allowed me to gain experience in a broad range of environments. I have had the opportunity to contribute to projects with more than a dozen federal agencies, as well as state and corporate customers. Through my work with the Dept. of Labor, U.S. Air Force, NASA, GSA, and many others, I have built a firm understanding of the full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of web applications. Work Experience Senior ColdFusion Developer US Department Of Labor June 2008 to Present By contract with Axis Management Group, 21CT Services, and Inserso)  Leading member of a development team supporting the Office of Foreign Labor Certification at the U.S. Department of Labor. The iCERT system was created as a one-stop portal to improve access to employment-based visa application  services. The application utilizes the ColdBox framework under the MVC (Model - View - Controller) model, as well as Ajax, JQuery, and other standards based methodologies.  • Involved from initial product launch a decade ago, through significant changes and improvements, to what has  become a top-tier application with millions of lines of code  • Designed, implemented, and improved a complex and extensive set of business rules to facilitate efficient  processing of publicly submitted forms via creative ColdFusion code and database design  • Development of ColdFusion Web Services to ensure interoperability with an inter-agency Data As A Service  (DaaS) system  • Provide analyses and assist project managers in preparing level-of-effort estimates and impact analysis  • Established best practices to facilitate effective Unit Testing, along with a code review process to ensure Section  508 compliance, security considerations such as SQL Injection, comments, versioning etc.  • Led effort to develop a correspondence tracking system which allows OFLC staff to generate emails or letters in MS Word format based on templates, as well as exporting forms and reports in both PDF and MS Excel  • Maintain and support legacy ColdFusion application PERM alongside modern MVC iCert system  • Leading small development teams as well as mentoring newer developers  • Worked extensively with a diverse group, including analysts, QA, CM, UAT, Ops, etc. onsite, offsite, and by remote Senior ColdFusion Developer Manila Consulting Corp October 2006 to June 2008 Member of development team supporting the U.S. Department of Labor's E-Grants application. E-Grants is an enterprise  application that is used to manage grant transactions totaling over $9B annually. Utilizing technologies such as ColdFusion, Oracle (RDBMS), BizFlow, Oracle Portal Server and Internet Directory in a clustered, multi-tier environment,  our team was able to provide an application that assists in the full life-cycle of grants, including: screening and evaluation, transaction management, and reconciliation.  • Wrote a Management Reports application. This application consists of a series of reports that allow federal  managers to track usage of the system, status of various processes, budgetary information, etc.  • Developed a task management system, which was used by the development team to track requests, assist in versioning, and assignment of tasks Senior ColdFusion Developer Convergenz May 2006 to October 2006 As a sub-contractor for Dynamics Research Corporation, provided support for the U.S. Air Force / Air National Guard at Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland. Involved in the migration of the Guard Information Analysis Information Network  (GUARDIAN) enterprise application from a .com environment to a .mil environment. Assignments involved the development of new programs and subprograms, as well as enhancements, modifications, and corrections to existing  software applications.  • Developed and implemented, as part of a team, a migration plan for critical applications from a commercial  environment to a military environment for Air National Guard Headquarters  • Implementation of the ANG Internet Release Package, a process that allows for the tracking and testing of applications for usability, reliability, accessibility, accuracy, as well as other criteria required for .mil  environments Lead Developer CapWIN September 2005 to May 2006 Design and development of the public website for the Capital Wireless Integrated Network (www.capwin.org) for State  and Federal Police, Fire, and EMS. Full function site features a Members area and an administrative area that allows for complete control of the site's content and management of user accounts through simple web-based forms. ColdFusion Developer Indus Corp March 2005 to September 2005 Support for the Application Development Branch at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, MD. Was involved in design, development, and documentation for various internal applications such as The Chemical Exchange (ChemEx)  and the Contractor Held Asset Tracking System (CHATS). Web Developer Management Technology Inc May 1998 to February 2005 Support GSA's Federal IT Accessibility Initiative: lead developer in charge of design, application development, and system  maintenance of www.section508.gov  • Provided instruction on implementing Section 508 guidelines  • Consulted with GSA and the Access Board on website accessibility issues  • Designed and developed online training modules for accessibility-related issues  • Design, development, and management of the DOJ Bi-Annual Survey. Required extensive coordination with DOJ, CIOC, and other organizations.  Integral member of small team supporting Federal CIO Council and related sites  • Part of design and development team for www.cio.gov, www.itrb.gov, www.estrategy.gov, and www.caoc.gov, and The Solutions Exchange which required extensive coordination with the Executive Office of the President Of  The United States and The Department of the Navy  Support for the President's Council on Y2K conversion  • Designed and maintained www.y2k.gov  • Ran public website and disseminated press releases while staffing the Y2K International Command Center during the rollover  • Received Letters of Achievement from the White House, the Office Of Management and Budget (OMB), and the General Services Administration (GSA) for work completed on the Y2K Project Education Computer Science Program University of Maryland Present Skills Ajax, Cfml, Coldfusion, Css, Web services, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Bugzilla, Model view controller, Mvc, Restful web services, jquery, Git, Html, Javascript, Json Links http://www.stevefontaine.us Additional Information SKILLS    • ColdFusion (CFML), SQL, HTML/XHTML, CSS • SQL - Oracle, PL/SQL, MySQL, MS SQL Server  • Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture • Javascript (JS), JSON, Ajax, jQuery, jqGrid  • ColdBox Framework • RESTful Web Services  • Agile - Scrum • Subversion, Git, Redmine, Bugzilla  • DoD Secret Clearance (Inactive)