Programmer / Analyst Programmer / Analyst Programmer / Analyst - netPark, LLC Delaware, OH Work Experience Programmer / Analyst netPark, LLC - Gahanna, OH April 2017 to Present Worked in a fast-paced team environment to add and support new features for proprietary parking software using PHP.  ? Implemented Vue.js and Typescript to improve front-end client interfaces for proprietary parking software and client WordPress sites.  ? Worked with clients to design and build parking reservation and customer loyalty  websites using WordPress with Twitter Bootstrap and Tailwind framework.  ? Redesigned proprietary WordPress plugins for managing parking customers and reservations using object-oriented practices and Vue.js for the front end.  ? Built a pay-by-phone feature using a custom-built PHP framework and Vue.js for customers to receive texts or emails to pay their parking costs from their phone.  ? Built an electronic validation feature using PHP and Vue.js so clients can allow  companies to issue parking validations.  ? Added a feature to an Electron desktop application to allow updating firmware of Ingenico credit card readers.  ? Help with customer service requests to track down and correct issues with the software and client websites.  ? Built a custom database migration system using PHP and MySQL for the netPark  parking software. Web Development Consultant 360water, Inc - Columbus, OH April 2017 to Present Aid with the design and development of a new centralized learning management  system built in Laravel.  ? Help transition application to new servers and be compatible with PHP 7.  ? Added a new email system to allow clients to edit the scheduling and content of automated emails using PHP and MJML for the email templates.  ? Used PHP a test bank feature for courses to allow randomized test questions to be selected from a pool of available questions.  ? Implemented the PHPUnit testing framework with CodeIgniter.  ? Used PHP to combine user course record history, certificates of completion  documents, and other user uploaded documents into a completion packet  document used to verify user activity. Web Developer 360water, Inc - Columbus, OH June 2006 to April 2017 Redesigned company sites using the PHP CodeIgniter framework, AngularJS  framework, and Twitter Bootstrap CSS framework.  ? Created a curriculum feature so administrators can assign groups of courses to users and set dates when the curriculum must be created. This helps  administrators track user progress and lets users know what they need to complete.  ? Created a new web-based course authoring environment using PHP, JavaScript, and MySQL. This allowed technical writers to create new courses from any  location without needing software other than a web browser.  ? Created an online editor to create customizable maps and schematics showing  locations of equipment at a treatment plant using PHP, JavaScript, and MySQL.  This reduced development costs of creating these elements and allowed non- programmers to create these elements.  ? Created custom forum and FAQ features on the client web sites using PHP and MySQL. The forum feature automatically creates a forum for each course  category in use on the site. The FAQ feature works with the forum so an administrator can view questions in the forum and provide or set a best answer which populates the FAQ page for that course category.  ? Maintain course creation applications to provide more features as well as  increase the quality and production of the courses. This included updating third  party software programmed in .NET. The software parsed Microsoft Word  documents and uploaded the content to a database and media to a server. The  updates required changing where the media was sent as well as connecting to another database. The updates also required removing extra content leftover from Microsoft Word that was not compatible in web browsers outside of Internet  Explorer.  ? Maintain Linux web servers using SSH. Education Bachelor of Applied Science in Game and Simulation Programming in Game and Simulation Programming DeVry University Columbus - Columbus, OH February 2012 Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering in Structural Engineering The Ohio State University - Columbus, OH March 2008 Skills Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Typescript, Webpack, Wordpress, PHP, Angularjs, Front End Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Create and maintain web sites using HTML, Javascript, PHP, and MySQL  ? PHP Frameworks (CodeIgniter, Laravel, WordPress)  ? PHP unit testing with PHPUnit  ? Javascript frameworks (Vue, jQuery, Angular 1, React)  ? Typescript  ? CSS frameworks and tools (Bootstrap, Tailwind, PostCSS, Sass, LESS)  ? NodeJS and build tools (Webpack, Vue-CLI, Gulp, Grunt)  ? Graphics software (Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Inkscape, and Gimp)