Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Team Products International Denville, NJ Highly motivated application developer with strong problem solving, analytical, and communication skills. Excels in team oriented environments as well as projects requiring independent efforts. Strong aptitude for technology as well as the ability and desire to pick up new skills quickly. Constantly strives to achieve elegant solutions to problems using best practice OOP principals, design patterns, and n-tier methodology. Seeking a technology position that will challenge my current skills while allowing me to provide the highest quality work for your company. Work Experience Web Developer Team Products International - Parsippany, NJ June 2004 to Present Developed the core framework and security model for the corporate intranet using ASP.Net, Secure Socket Layers (SSL), coupled with SQL Server 2000  • Created customer and product management tools to enable web integration with the company's Solomon accounting/inventory software  • Developed content management utilities for use on the intranet for the News, Job Postings, Feedback, and Contact areas  • Implemented a web based file transfer utility to allow internal and external users to send files to one another, eliminating strain on the e-mail server  • Created user and group manager to allow for simple addition and administration of new intranet/extranet users  • Created a page and module manager to allow for concurrent development of other utilities which can easily be integrated with the portal security model  • Designed the user interface of the intranet using Adobe Photoshop and Image Ready Senior Interactive Developer DVC Worldwide - Morristown, NJ November 2003 to June 2004 Roles in Client Projects:    Gillette  Used ASP.NET to develop the frontend and backend of a promotions site geared toward capturing user data. Created flexible user controls to effectively minimize code duplication. Used custom classes to capture form data. Developed stored procedures in SQL Server to store user information. Used extensive Javascript to validate form input.    Labatt USA  Used Macromedia Director in conjunction with Acrobat, Photoshop, MPEGs, and Flash to create several sales kit CD-Roms. Used extensive Lingo programming and Xtras to provide animation, navigation, and an enriching user experience. Prepared user documentation and a CD-Rom master for duplication.    Nokia  Used ASP.NET to develop the frontend and backend for several mini-sites geared toward promoting Nokia events and products. Developed flexible user controls to minimize code duplication. Used custom classes to capture form data. Developed stored procedures in SQL Server to store submitted information.    Perdue  Used ASP to develop the frontend of several company sites. Created DHTML navigation to enhance the user experience. Used Flash and extensive ActionScripting to develop a database driven product menu to eliminate page refreshes. Responsible for uploading content changes on live servers using FTP.    Pfizer/Pharmacia  Used ASP.NET and ASP to develop the frontend of several company sites. Used DHTML for navigation and animation to enhance user experience. Used extensive Javascript for form validation.    Schering Plough  Used ASP.NET to develop the frontend and backend of several product sites. Created flexible user controls to effectively minimize code duplication. Used base page classes to provide consistent functionality and appearance across each page. Developed DHTML navigation to enhance the user experience.    Used Macromedia Flash MX to create a kiosk based matching game. Captured user information via the Flash kiosk and stored it to a database using ASP.    Subaru of America  Used extensive DHTML to provide custom drop-down navigation. Used Javascript to build a custom monthly payment calculator as well as to validate data capturing forms. Worked at client Headquarters to meet strict deadlines and coordinate with their developers under a JSP development environment.    DVC Worldwide  Used ASP.NET to develop the frontend and backend for the corporate presence and content management system (job, news, and showcase posting tools). Created flexible user controls to minimize code duplication. Used custom classes to capture user information. Developed stored procedures in SQL Server to store information. Created a custom upload class for publishing case studies to the interactive.dvcworldwide.com showcase site. Designed imagery and layout for the content management system using Photoshop.    General Job Functions:  • Hand coded HTML to meet strict layout specifications  • Created CSS classes to provide consistent styles across the entire site  • Cut and optimized assets from Photoshop documents for use in site construction  • Performed quality assurance testing on projects to ensure performance integrity across platforms and browsers  • Configured staging environments and administered them using Microsoft IIS  • Worked closely with Account Mangers, Copywriters, Engineers, and Graphic Designers to complete projects with utmost efficiency Web Programmer Intel/Dialogic - Parsippany, NJ January 2001 to October 2003 Created custom VBA application to convert word documents to HTML pages following Intel/Dialogic coding standards  • Used Visual Basic to develop a program to process each file on the Dialogic web site and convert it for use on a distributed trade CD-Rom  • Used HTML/XHTML/Javascript to create web pages according to Intel/Dialogic standards  • Responsible for testing and posting pages to live Internet site  May 2000 - December 2000 Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Fairleigh Dickinson University - Madison, NJ May 2001 Associate of Science in Telecommunication Systems County College of Morris March 1998 Electronics Morris County School of Technology - Denville, NJ June 1995 Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Programming Languages/Frameworks: ASP.NET using C#/Visual Basic, MVC, AJAX, Web Services using ASMX, WCF, WebAPI, REST, Javascript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, T-SQL, Stored Procedures, LINQ, Entity Framework, Windows Services, Windows Azure, WPF, XML, XAML, XSLT, KendoUI, Telerik, KnockoutJS, Bootstrap    Software: Microsoft Visual Studio.NET, Microsoft IIS, Microsoft SQL Server 2000-2012, Team Foundation Server 2010, SQL Report Server, Visual Source Safe, Subversion, NUnit, RhinoMocks, MOQ, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe InDesign, Google Analytics, LinqPad, Resharper, Browserstack    Methodologies: Object Oriented Programming, Test Driven Development, Domain Driven Design, Agile, Scrum, Responsive Web Design.    Operating Systems: MS Windows 95-Windows 8.1, Windows Server 2000-2008, MAC OS, Linux