Owner/ Developer/Designer Owner/<span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer Owner/ Developer/Designer - Vipergroup Work Experience Owner/ Developer/Designer Vipergroup 1998 to Present Freelance  ? Implemented marketing strategies which resulted in 100% growth of customer base.  ? Responsible for creative design for prominent corporations.  ? Performed initial client assessment and analysis to begin research process.  ? Obtained documents, clearances, certificates and approvals from local, state and federal agencies.  ? Collaborated with the company owners or staff to develop new applications.  ? Gathered user feedback and made recommendations.  ? Performed integration testing before launching applications.  ? Built, tested and deployed scalable, highly available and modular software products.  ? Streamlined deployment process by developing continuous integration tools.  ? Strengthened developmental methodologies by introducing a code quality document.  ? Wrote and implemented scripts to enhance user experience and integrated scripts with the CMS.  ? Designed and developed transactional and analytical data structures.  ? Modified existing software to correct errors, adapt to new hardware and improve performance.  ? Developed shared central authentication system in .NET and SharePoint for intranet applications.  ? Implemented innovative systems for data collection, storage and management of customer orders.  ? Worked closely with clients to establish problem specifications and system designs.  ? Performed regression and system-level testing to verify software quality and function before it was released.  ? Wrote C# applications in .NET architecture.  ? Designed intuitive graphical user interfaces using knowledge of serial communications and database design.  ? Developed design deliverable that elevated, differentiated and functioned on-brand and on-strategy.  ? Translated complex concepts and data into compelling visuals for media outreach.  ? Collaborated with vendors to ensure style consistency with other marketing materials.  ? Generated new ideas with limited direction and varied internal client needs.  ? Generated detailed specs of final designs.  ? Design of logos, print flyers, and online advertisements.  ? Worked with VPN and converted 480 Paper forms to html using C# and SQL  ? Saved all student forms in database with scores for each one  CLIENTS: Liferay Developer Equifax June 2019 to July 2019 Contract    ? Design, build, or maintain web sites, using authoring or scripting languages, content creation tools, management tools, and digital media.  ? Perform or direct web site updates.  ? Write, design, or edit web page content, or direct others producing content.  ? Confer with management or development teams to prioritize needs, resolve conflicts, develop content criteria, or choose solutions.  ? Identify problems uncovered by testing or customer feedback, and correct problems or refer problems to appropriate personnel for correction.  ? Evaluate code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems.  ? Maintain understanding of current web technologies or programming practices through continuing education, reading, or participation in professional conferences, workshops, or groups.  ? Develop and document style guidelines for web site content.  Used: ASP.NET, HTML, JQuery, XML, CSS, LifeRay Missouri Baptist University November 2017 to July 2018 Brothers With Brushes January 2017 to September 2017 Used: C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, HTML, JQuery, XML, SQL, CSS, Stored Procedures, XSLT and MVC Senior Developer Intercard International January 2016 to August 2016 Contract  ? Create, maintain and update SQL server databases.  ? Created web based applications to store inventory and create reports.  ? Developed integrated applications to work with POS systems.  ? Developed applications to run on Russian POS systems.  ? Developed card reader software for entertainment venues.  ? Maintenance and upgrades to current POS software.  Used: C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, HTML, JQuery, XML, SQL, CSS, Stored Procedures, XSLT and MVC Sharepoint/Application Developer The Phoenix Group January 2015 to October 2015 Contract  ? Create, maintain and update SQL server databases.  ? Created web based applications to store inventory and create reports.  ? Manage all aspects of SharePoint including Sites, User/Group Permissions, Admin, WebPart Development.  ? Developed a webpart that tracked current department projects and displayed the overall data in a dashboard.  ? Completely designed and developed an application to input and track inventory serial numbers.  ? Developed a mechanism to allow receiving to update inventory data via web browser for Great Plains.  ? Troubleshooting user issues with Great Plains.  Used: C#, ASP.NET, HTML, JQuery, XML, SQL, CSS, Stored Procedures, XSLT and MVC Senior Developer Washington University St. Louis October 2010 to February 2014 Design and development of Olin Business School websites.  ? Development of event tracking, user management software using SQL Server  ? Developed SharePoint user/ web controls in C#.  ? Troubleshooting server setup and additions for SharePoint servers.  ? Conversion of sites from ColdFusion to .Net  ? Development of student group websites.  ? Programming of student group web applications.  ? Programming of FIRS web application.  ? Developed custom SSIS data extraction for reporting.  Developed the website for http://www.olin.wustl.edu  http://www.olincareers.wustl.edu  http://www.olinblog.wustl.edu  Used: C#, ASP.NET, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, XML, SQL, CSS, PHP, Stored Procedures, ColdFusion, SSIS, XSLT Web Developer Marcone Supply December 2008 to September 2010 Contract  ? Designed websites using Adobe CS4. This included Illustrator, Flash and Photoshop.  ? Developed websites using Visual Studio 2008, C#, VB.NET, AJAX, JQuery and MS SQL.  ? Design new UI for customer sites of Marcone  ? Design five ecommerce sites for Whirlpool sectors which included Amana, Maytag, Kitchen-Aid, Jenn-Air and Whirlpool.  ? Design and develop the 2010 MSA convention website that included registration, class selection and rationing.  ? Worked with SSIS to integrate data from multiple companies that were acquired.  ? Develop a customized Google API map for all 59 Marcone locations. Using XML, XSLT.  ? Researched and implemented search optimization and website tracking using web logs.  Developed the website for www.marcone.com  http://www.pictureperfectservicenetwork.com/  http://www.marconepm-marcone.com/  http://www.whirlpoolpartsonline.com/  http://www.amanapartsonline.com/    Used: C#, VB.Net, ASP.NET, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, XML, VB.NET, VBScript, SSIS, UML, SQL, CSS, Stored Procedures, ActionScript    PREVIOUS  Banyan Communication Developer/Network Administrator  Joyce Meyer Ministries Lead Web Developer  Elsevier, inc Developer/Business Analyst/Training  Anheuser Busch Companies Senior Developer Education MCSE ST. CHARLES COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Saint Charles, MO 2001 to Present Skills Application development, Content management, Data modeling, Database, Dbms, Data analytics, Systems administration, Usability, Networking, Open source, Prototyping, Graphic design, User testing, Database management, Qa, Quality assurance, Software quality assurance, End user support, Best practices, Documentation Additional Information Skills  Analytics. APIs, Application Development Methodologies,  Best Practices, Content Management, Data Analytics, Database Management Systems (DBMS), Data Modeling  Develop and Secure Network Structures  Documentation, End User Support, Graphic Design,  Hardware, Implementation, Installation, Multimedia,  Networking  Open Source Software, Optimizing User Experiences, Optimizing Website Performance, Prototyping Methods, Project Management, Reporting  Software Quality Assurance (QA)  Support, Systems Administration, Technical Writing,  Tech Support, Troubleshooting, User Testing, Usability, User-Centered Design