Freelance/Volunteer Web Developer/Designer Freelance/Volunteer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer LARAVEL WEB DEVELOPER Manassas, VA I am a seasoned professional seeking an opportunity as a Full-Stack or Backend web applications developer within a dynamic, high growth organization that welcomes innovation, dedication, and experience. I bring over two decades of comprehensive experience in software and web development including PHP, Object-Oriented Programming, HTML5, Responsive Design, Laravel, WordPress, and more. I enjoy learning new technologies and development practices.     TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE  ? HTML5, CSS, Flexbox, CSS-Grid  ? Object-Oriented Programming, SOLID Design Principles, MVC Architecture  ? Blade, Twig  ? Bootstrap, VUEJS, Custom HTML Templates  ? Adobe Creative Cloud [Photoshop, Illustrator, Indesign]  ? Responsive Web Design  ? Composer, Node Package Manager (NPM) Git, Gitflow, GitHub  ? PHPStorm  ? Apache 2 / Nginx Web Servers    ? PHP v5.6 - v7.2, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML  ? Laravel  ? WordPress CMS, Joomla CMS  ? MySQL v5.7, SQLite  ? Webpack, Gulp, Laravel Mix  ? CI/CD  ? Third-Party API Integration  ? Agile/SCRUM  ? Google Analytics, Search Engine Optimization (SEO), SEMRush  ? Linux Ubuntu 18.04  ? Docker, Hyper-V, VMware, VirtualBox, Vagrant, Puppet    I have additional skills developing software using Microsoft tools such as Visual Studio Professional, C# (.NET Framework) and SQL Server. I do not have ASP.NET experience, but very willing to learn. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance/Volunteer Web Developer/Designer Self - Manassas, VA February 2012 to Present Historic Gordonsville, Inc. Gordonsville, Virginia    Provided web design and development services and served as the senior developer and  technical expert supporting a 501(c)(3) nonprofit company which owns and operates an  American Civil War Medical Museum and historical landmark; an 1860s Civil War  Battlefield Hospital known as the “Exchange Hotel”. www.hgiexchange.com    • Experience working with client to define requirements and specifications.  • Created website using WordPress to showcase the history and architecture of the Museum as a historical landmark.   • Familiar with deploying websites to a shared Linux web host using Apache web server, PHP 5.6 and 7.x, and MySQL  • Developed online forms and integrated Google’s Recaptcha API  • Designed and developed event booking system using WPForms and integrated Google Calendar, and PayPal to allow event tickets to be purchased online.  • Implemented Google Analytics to track visitors and site usage statistics.  • Optimized site content using SEO best practices.  • Designed and developed custom site logo and branding using Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator.  • Familiar with migrating websites from web host to web host.   • Upgraded website with Lets Encrypt SSL Security and Cloudflare CDN service.  • Installed and configured automated weekly and monthly site backups.  • Installed and configured Clean-talk anti-spam service to help prevent comment spam and malicious attacks to the website. Since website went live, this anti-spam service has blocked over 3000 spam and malicious attacks.  • Connected site to social media platforms including Facebook, Twitter, Google+,  • Created Donation form using the Give Donation plugin  • Created Email Opt-In forms and connected site to Constant Contact and MailChimp to allow for newsletter signups. LARAVEL WEB DEVELOPER Triple Crown Consulting / ProManage, Inc - Chicago, IL September 2018 to November 2018 Designed and developed new functionality for an Investment analysis and recommendations web application which provided retirement plan investment solutions for external client subscriber as well as their employees.  ? Tools and technologies use: PHP, MySQL, Laravel 4.2, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, PHPStorm, Linux Ubuntu 18.04. BUILDMASTER & SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Leidos, Inc - Falls Church, VA August 2010 to April 2017 Responsible for the technical and operational aspects of the software build processes on a large-scale multi-tiered centralized medical records system developed for and used by medical providers of the United States Department of Defense (DoD) and all branches of the military.  ? Developed software build process which consisted of pulling multiple language source code from a Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS). version management of source code, compile source code into 32-bit and 64-bit managed and unmanaged assemblies and wrapping them in a hybrid 32-bit and 64-bit installable packages using industry standard InstallShield Professional packaging software.  ? Analyzed, designed, developed, debugged, and refactored scripts and C# code to streamline the build process, improve readability and reusability, and reduced maintenance time.  ? Developed a multi-threaded C# application to automate the software build process.  ? Created custom functionality specific to the AHLTA build process using the NAnt Build Automation API for the .NET framework.  ? Built and Implemented two continuous integration servers using TeamCity to automate the test builds of VB6 and .NET source code, and alert developers to any errors that occurred during the nightly build process. FREELANCE WEB DEVELOPER The Marin Group, llc - Springfield, VA July 2012 to September 2015 Provided web design and development services and served as the senior developer and technical expert supporting a Washington, DC-based Paranormal team known as the R.I.P Files.  ? Designed and developed the website to showcase the team's paranormal reality television series which documents their research and investigations.  ? Worked collaboratively with owners and board members to define website requirements and specifications.  ? Provided leadership as a subject matter expert on Web Hosting, Search Engine Optimization, Member Logins, Adding and Updating Content, Site Upgrades and Maintenance.  ? Open Source Joomla Content Management System software  ? Deployed to a shared Linux host running Apache, PHP and MySQL.  ? Developed contact forms and integrated Google's Recaptcha API.  ? Designed and developed site graphics and branding including logo using Adobe Photoshop. WEB DEVELOPER Electronic Data Systems Corp - Herndon, VA July 2008 to November 2009 Performed maintenance and enhancement programming on an Enterprise-level legacy classic ASP application called the National File Tracking System (NFTS) developed for the Department of Homeland Security and the United States Citizen and Immigration Service.  ? Developed installation packaging to automate the setup of the National File Tracking System web servers using the Windows Installer XML Toolset (WiX).  ? Developed multiple in-house tools using Visual Basic 6, Excel Automation and Crystal Reports to assist the Help Desk in performing daily data fixes. Education Design STRAYER UNIVERSITY 2018 Skills Javascript (3 years), PHP (10+ years), Wordpress (2 years), HTML (10+ years), Linux (3 years), JQuery (2 years), CSS (10+ years), CSS3 (3 years), SASS (3 years), Bootstrap 3 & 4 (2 years), Photoshop (2 years), HTML 5 (3 years), MySQL (10+ years), HTML5 (3 years), Front End, Bootstrap, C# Links http://jimmacdiarmid.comlinkedin.com/in/jimdmacdiarmid https://github.com/jdmacdiarmid https://stackoverflow.com/users/2061298/jim-macdiarmid https://www.jimmacdiarmid.com Military Service Branch: US Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-3 September 1981 to September 1985 COOK / BAKER  United States Navy - U.S.S. Harry E. Yarnell (CG-17) – Norfolk, VA    • Prepared meals for 450 crewmembers including officers and enlisted.  • Member in one of the ship’s. Nuclear/Biological/Chemical Washdown Damage Control Team  • Honorably Discharged from Active Duty (1985)