Full Stack .NET Developer Full Stack .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack .NET  Developer Richmond, VA • 10 Years of professional experience in designing, development and implementation of N-Tier.  • Client/Server Web and Windows based application domains using Microsoft .NETFramework.  • Strong knowledge and experience in developing web and windows applications using C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, ASP.NET RESTful Web API's, LINQ, HTML, XAML,XML, CSS, AngularJS, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS and Web Services.  • Proficiency in Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) methodologies and development processes.  • Expertise with application development using Object Oriented Analysis & Design Techniques (OOAD).  • Experience with designing and development of applications using MVC, MVVM design patterns.  • Experience in developing User Interface (UI), Business Logic and Data Access components to meet user requirements.  • Experience in working with Web Services, WCF Services, ASMX web services and ADO.NET, Entity Framework.  • Experience in developing the web applications usingASP.NET MVC.  • Experience in developing and consuming ASP.Net Web Services, ASP.Net Web API's (RESTful) and Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Experience in using LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML, LINQ to Objects to retrieve and modify data.  • Extensive database designing and programming skills using SQL Server 2005/2008/2010/2012,  • Oracle and MS Access.  • Hands on experience in SQL Queries using joins, Indexes and in creating Tables, Views, Indexes,  • writing Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers using T-SQL, Maintaining Database, Experience in Query Optimization.  • Experience in web UI technologies using HTML5, Angular 4, jQuery,JavaScript, for better look using controls, as well as Using Bootstrap.  • Experience in using SSIS tools like Import and Export Wizard, Package Installation, and SSIS Package Designer.  • Experience in ETL processes involving migrations and in sync processes between two databases.  • Transformed data from one server to other servers using tools like SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) (2005/2008/2010/2012).  • Knowledge on developing Reports using crystal reports and RDLC reports.  • Exclusively developing and deploying Web Services using WSDL and SOAP.  • Worked with the Version Control Systems like Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual Source Safe (VSS).  • Experience building and deploying applications using AWS and Azure cloud platforms.  • Strong Technical background, excellent analytical ability, good communications skills, team player and goal oriented, with a commitment toward excellence.  • Excellent client interaction and presentation skills and proven experience in working independently as well in a team with good leadership qualities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack .NET Developer Richmond, VA March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance with Agile Methodology.  • Involved in the Design of the application using MVC, WCF, Entity Framework, LINQ to SQL.  • Developed web application using ASP.NET Web MVC 5 with implementation of n-tier architecture.  • Implemented BIGS website modules - Activity Log, Individual, and Information Request Status.  • Involved in developing the Front-End of the application using the ASP.NET framework 4.5, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS framework.  • UsedASP.NET MVCData annotations and jQuery to do validations on the Model Data.  • Created various AngularJS Services to make AJAX calls and custom angular directives to create own HTML tags and induce behavior to those tags.  • Involved in creating the Model and Controller for accessing the data to View and implemented the Parameter Binding in Controller.  • Involved in enhancing the application user interface, modifying the data base columns using the Entity framework.  • Implemented and extensively used the Object-Oriented programming concepts in C# and ASP.NET 4.5.  • Implemented the Rest API using WEB API 2 for building the Server-Side component and create DB context in the controller.  • Used Dapper to model and manage data on Web API.  • Used AngularJS Filter to implement pagination for data records.  • Involve in developing the data base tables using the Entity framework 6 with code first approach.  • Involved in developing the data access layer using the ADO.NET and Entity Framework following the code first approach.  • Involved in developing the Database and Created the SQL tables and build the primary and foreign key relationships.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for source Version Control.  • Involved inunit testing withMicrosoft Unit Tests, preparing System Test Cases, Documentation, Debugging and bug fixing.    Environment: ASP.NET4.5, ASP.NETMVC, ADO.NET, Visual Studio 2015, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AngularJS, AJAX, SQL Server 2014, Dapper, Entity Framework, TFS. Web Developer San Francisco Health Plan(SFHP), CA September 2015 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • All the user interface layers, web pages are created and integrated to maintain the data flow and data integrity using ASP.NET User Controls and Web Controls.  • Developed multi-tier application using ASP.NET MVC, C#, jQuery, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML, Entity Framework and SQL Server.  • Implemented Business Logic in C# using Database Authentication.  • Used ADO.NET for database connectivity.  • Created Maintenance screens to Add/Modify/Delete using Data grids, Data Readers and Datasets.  • Used ASP.NET MVC to develop code behind logic, business tier and SQL server for data tier.  • Responsible for client-side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using jQuery, jQuery UI and AngularJS.  • Developed grids and charts using Telerik UI Controls to display data.  • Design form validations on server side and client side using AngularJS.  • Implemented Web Services using WSDL and SOAP.  • Used XML to transfer data between the Client and Server.  • Used ASP.NET MVC Data Annotation to apply all the necessary validations for Data Attributes on the models.  • Developed a powerful search functionality, which retrieves results based on search criteria across several datasets.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, and Cursors using SQL Server 2012.  • Source code maintenance using Visual Source Safe.    Environment: ASP.NET, C# .NET, ADO.NET, ASP.NET MVC, HTML, SQL Server 2012, IIS, Java Script, AngularJS, jQuery, SOAP, XML Web Services, VSS. .NET Application Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX July 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for development process and Agile including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Developed XMLSchemas for Data Object design for communication with web service and existing Application Infrastructure.  • Developed solutions for diverse programming scenarios in C#, employing Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts such as: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction and Design patterns like Abstract factory.  • Built desktop application using WPF with MVVM pattern.  • Created and deployed XML Web Services (WCF) using ASP.NET and C#, used them to generate the proxy class files based on the web services and consumed in web application.  • Assisted in the development of WCF RESTful, web services using Entity Framework as the data access layer to SQL Server.  • Designed the web UI using ASP.NET MVC4.0, HTML, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, JavaScript, CSS, Web Forms, AJAX andjQuery controls.  • Implemented WinForms to provide GUI components using .NET Framework.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#, GUI (Graphical User Interfaces) VB.NET, ADO.NET, Classic ASP (Active Server Pages), .NET Framework 2.0.  • Used jQuery as it is a lightweight JavaScript library that emphasizes interaction between JavaScript and HTML.  • Created Client-side validations with JavaScript and Server-side validations with ASP.NET 4.0.  • Used Win Form controls and Custom User Controls to provide standard interactive User Interface.  • Used a web service to access the Active Directory for retrieving the user details based on user id.  • Develop, follow, and implement Security Policies/Active Directory policies, strategies, guidelines, standards and procedures.  • Extensively used XML, XSLT and XSD for data transfer across different systems.    Environment: MVC, ASP.NET, C#, Entity Framework, Web API, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, AJAX, ADO.NET, LINQ, SQL Server, XML, JSON, TFS, IIS, JIRA, SQL server Report Builder. Application Developer Ipro Tech, LLC - Tempe, AZ May 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Planning and estimating the technical design aspects and preparing design documents.  • Developed user interface ( Web Forms) for the modules using ASP.NET server controls, Validation controls, HTML for the front-end ordering system, where business logic was implemented using VB.Net.  • Implemented Validation Controls, Created Master Pages, used themes, skins, Gridview and CSS to improve look and feel of the Webpages.  • Worked on MVC4 application using C#.NET and designed frond-end components using HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap.  • Created data models in MVC using Entity Framework Database First approach.  • Created Razor views and partial views to design User Interface.  • Implemented client-side validations using jQuery and ASP.NET MVC Validation.  • Implemented functionality such as form validation, search and filter the data from database.  • Designed and developed the database tables, triggers, stored procedures using SQL server 2008.  • Used Datasets, Data Table and Data View to retrieve and manipulate data.  Environment: C#, ASP.NET,MVC, Visual Studio 2008/2012, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, SQL server 2008. .NET Developer NTT Data, Inc - Alpharetta, GA March 2010 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  • Working in an agile Environment to deliver higher-quality software far more rapidly.  • Successfully organized initial set of requirements into master list of Use Cases.  • Involved in development of Web Forms, Classes using C#. NET that incorporates both N-Tier Architecture, and Database Connectivity.  • Used Visual Studio IDE to design the forms, develop and debug the application.  • Worked on different aspects of .NET framework, like ASP.NET and ADO.NET.  • Involved in designing of User Interface with CSS, HTML, and DHTML.  • Implemented JavaScript and jQuery for UI validations with Angular JS for the Client.  • Developed presentation layer using Server-controls, HTML Controls, User Controls, and Custom Controls.  • Created and deployed Web Services using SOAP, and XML for Pulling Customer Service Records.  • Modified web services to interact with the other applications and exposed them using SOAP and HTTP.  • Used AJAX to trade data with a web server, without reloading the page.  • ADO.NET was used to connect to the databases in a disconnected oriented architecture.  • Created event driven Web Forms using ASP.NET and implemented Form Validation.  • Extensively used Grid view control throughout the application.  • Created CSS files to be applied to various web forms on the web pages.  • Used Validation Controls for both Custom Validation and JavaScript for Client-Side Validations; also used the new validation controls in Visual Studio.  • Written code to access secure web service using .Net, win forms using C# .NET, WSDL, Proxy Class, XML/SOAP.  • Extensively involved in Stored Procedures Optimization.  Environment: NET Framework, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, AngularJS, XML, Web Services, HTML, JavaScript, IIS 6.0, SQL Server 2008, HTML, DHTML, XSL, CSS, AJAX Toolkit, Visual Studio 2010, Win Forms, UML and VSS. UI/.NET Developer Harris Corporation - Palm Bay, FL January 2009 to March 2010 Responsibilities:  • Worked on gathering the requirements, design and analysis of the client specifications.  • Used CSS, JavaScript, HTML, and jQuery as front-end web design.  • Worked with Validation Controls, Custom Controls, Web Controls, Html Server Controls and Data Grids.  • Created ASP.NET pages such that the pages collect input from GUI components and stores them into the database.  • Implemented the business logic by developing C# components.  • Worked on Master Pages, style sheets, various client-side interfaces.  • Involved in the development of a module for third party input processing ( Web Services, C#), XML input/output processing.  • Used ADO.Net objects such as Dataset, Data Adapter and Data Reader to create generic secure and reusable data access component.  • Improved the application performance using stored procedures and connection pooling and Memory management.  • Created and tested data driven Unit tests for the web application using Visual Studio 2008.  Environment:.NET Framework 2.0, VB.NET, ASP.NET 2.0, XML/XSLT, Windows XP, SQL Server 2008, HTML, Java Script, Visual Studio 2008. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University Skills .net, Visual studio, Visual studio .net, C#, Html