Sr. .Net Developer Sr. .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. .Net Developer - Conest Software Systems Merrimack, NH To obtain a .Net Developer or Web Developer position that will benefit from my knowledge, skills and abilities in industry and to maximize my work activities and context to achieve a positive outcome.    Abilities    • Architect, design, implement software in a variety of disciplines and languages  • Front end UI/UX design  • Data Driven application development  • Developed Sql Database access through stored procedure/Entity framework  • Designed high volume, secure web sites, webservices, and production quality software  • Developed in Ektron, DotNetNuke CMS systems  • Winforms Desktop and Web .net application development    • Proficient in .Net 4.6, VS 2012, VS2013, VS2017, Stored Procedures, C#, VB, JavaScript, SQL, Oracle, DHTML, jQuery, Ajax, XML, CSS, SharePoint, X2, SOAP, GWT, HTML, HTML5, RESTful DB Interface, WebServices, Telerik, 508 Compliance, Selenium, YSlow, PageSpeed, Fiddler, WinForms, Leadtools, TFS Work Experience Sr. .Net Developer Conest Software Systems - Manchester, NH November 2015 to Present Designed, Developed and supported web based mobile application that integrated into desktop applications  Designed, Developed and supported major functionality enhancements to Intellibid and SureCount, supporting Electrical Estimators.  Worked with a Leadtools interface to do pattern recognition on Electrical Estimating drawings  Designed and implemented major speed and functionality enhancements to improve GUI performance with networked Database.  Provided product support through bug fixes, problem analysis, problem reporting and resolution. Sr. Web Developer CSI Solutions Inc - Bethesda, MD May 2012 to November 2015 Telecommuter)    Designed, developed and supported custom modules, controls, widgets using Ektron Api Designed, developed and supported custom modules Using DotNetNuke  Participated in the transition from Ektron to DotNetNuke website ( develop new code, use existing/new functionality ) Designed, Developed and Implemented automated testing strategies using Selenium.  Developed and implement DotNetNuke Speed improvements to modules, and Sql interface.  Developed code in .net VS 2012, C#, VB, CSS, Ajax, Javascript, MS Sql, with Stored Procedures, RESTful programming, WebServices, Telerik, Selenium  Developed applications to support content Taxonomy. Sr. Web Developer Craig Technologies Inc - Melbourne, FL October 2011 to February 2012 telecommute)    Designed, developed, documented, and implemented Web/SQL based Application for the Navy STAARS Program. Designed GUI web interfaces using Asp.NET (C#), JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Ajax, and Jquery.  Designed and Developed interactive Graphical dashboards to represent SQL query results. Web Developer NASHUA, CITY OF - Nashua, NH September 2003 to May 2011 Designed, developed, implemented and Supported several iterations of District and School web sites. Designed and developed interactive portal dashboard for users applications  Designed and implemented X2Dev applications in Java, Elipse  Designed GUI web interfaces using Asp.NET (C#), JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Ajax, JSON, and jQuery with cross browser functionality.  Designed / managed SQL Database Performance enhancements, backup procedures, stored procedures, and reporting.    • Facilities configuration, management, validation and approval for requested events    • Professional Development online sign with approval based on function    • District web site content and menu management tools.    • HR application interface with keyword search    • Student course selection based on prerequisites and selection.    • Spinetix Digital Signage for School events, announcements, athletics, professional development and facilities scheduled events.    • Work/Task tracking application.    • Portal Dashboard for internal applications based on security/role.    • Bus request application to request, manage and approve requests and notify the bus company of requests. Google maps api used to display routes and stop info.    • District wide inventory with untethered database updates.    My client side skills include extensive and broad experience with JavaScript developing UI that will provide the user with a great experience. I have developed several types of menu schemes, tab interfaces, client side access to SQL data, Drag and drop functionality, Splicing images for menus, hotspot popup menus, user input validation ( more that the default validation ), picture slide show ( self managing ), xmlhttp requests for object content ( change content based on the user interactions ), xml web service presentation of data, Google gears and mapping api, html object creation, modification and removal with javascript, manipulation of css styles and layout and tableless html. I have also used jquery to provide sliding, hiding and fading on html objects. I have used fireworks and photoshop to prepare images for web based viewing.    Implemented in C#, .NET, ADO.NET, JavaScript, SQL, Oracle, Visual Studio 2005, DHTML, jQuery, Ajax, XML, CSS, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Fireworks, Classic ASP, SharePoint, X2, SOAP, Crystal Reports and HTML.    Some of the web applications were designed to be 508 compliant. Principal Software Engineer HP - Salem, NH 1995 to 2002 • Designed, developed and implemented an Order validation and manufacturing product layout product. Designed and implement a test strategy to verify software functioned as expected prior to release.  • Supervised 4 engineers in the development and support of the application for manufacturing and technical sales support. Directed and conducted QAtesting for Manufacturing.    • Participated in the HP telecommuting program for 3 years.  • Implemented in C, C++, TCP, XML, DCL, Perl, X, SAP and HTML using a distributed architecture. Senior Software Engineer Compaq - Maynard, MA 1985 to 1995 • Manufacturing Cost Modeling. Implemented in C with x/Motif GUI in VMS and UNIX  • Designed implemented and introduced into manufacturing a boundary scan test system to test module level interconnect for modules that adhere to the IEEE 1149.1 standard.  • Designed and developed CAD translation utilities  • Designed and developed a double sided probing system to automate Teradyne L2XX probing activities.  • Worked as the project engineer and software architect within an advanced test technology group on several projects that included photomics, x-ray laminography, sonography and laser microscopy.    Education History Issuing Institution  Gordon College Education Bachelor's