Software Analyst III Software Analyst III Austin, TX Looking to make a career change into project management.  20 years of commercial web application and software development experience focusing on Microsoft and .NET Platform.  Commercial E-Commerce web site design and development experience. Professional experience developing n-tiered software applications.  Project management experience including: requirements gathering, feature scope management, and project communications. Work Experience Software Analyst III Austin, TX February 2014 to Present Responsible for the development of multiple web applications used to record, calculate and report on data for large scale transportation construction projects, doing full stack development.  ? Developed the new 2.0 version of the company's leading construction software by migrating code from ASP.Net Forms to MVC and Entity Framework for different constructions projects around the United States.  ? Acted as point of contact for several project administrators during the transition period of moving to our new single codebase and multi-tenant structured software.  ? Spearheaded the development of a web application which transfers project related data from our software to Texas Dept. Of Transportation's software/database using xml and web services.  ? Gathered system requirements, managed scope changes and adjusted project timelines to fit stakeholder needs. Senior Web Application Developer (Permanent Employment) Avidian Technologies - Redmond, WA February 2007 to August 2013 Managed and worked on all technical aspects for both avidian.com and prophetondemand.com web sites, doing full stack development.  ? Designed and developed the entire E-Commerce public shopping cart (user interface, ASP.NET, VB.NET, page logic and database tables/stored procedures) for the avidian.com site, at the time, averaging 30% of total sales per month.  ? Developed and implemented a sales lead rotation system for the avidian.com site which routes sales leads (captured via web forms) to different groups of designated sales people.  ? Worked with the sales director in designing and creating a web reporting system, which included reports for monthly sales, sales person quota/commissions, subscription revenue, refund amounts and the sales leads that would come in from the web site.  ? Gathered requirements, managed projects and collaborated with management for many projects.  ? Implemented new sales credit card processing solution for avidian.com website sales and internal sales. Senior Web Application Developer (Permanent Employment) Seattle Mortgage Company - Seattle, WA February 2005 to February 2007 seattlemortgage.com), Seattle, WA    ? Created advanced functionality in the existing web application which collected loan information from three different databases as well as provided the ability to group multiple loans together to allow modification of the bundled loan's information.  ? Improved SQL performance and maintenance by replacing inline SQL statements with stored procedures throughout the web application, which encompassed adding new tables as well as modifying existing tables of the SQL Server 2000 database.  ? Maintained the mortgage web application including performance improvements, fixing various types of bugs and redesigning some of the web page's user interface to allow a better presentation of information. Web Application Developer TECInfodex, Inc - Bellevue, WA October 2004 to January 2005 tecinfodex.com), Bellevue, WA    ? Designed and developed both levels of a two-tiered web application used by the United States Coast Guard for gathering data that is used in a complex algorithm for the purpose of allocating yearly budgetary monies.  ? Designed the database, created tables and stored procedures for the Coast Guard web application's DBMS which held facility and mission information for the entire West Coast sector of the United States.  ? Created the user interface of the Coast Guards' web application utilizing ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Javascript and HTML/DHTML.  ? Implemented DataGrids on all web site pages that were used for reporting purposes. Web Developer (Permanent Employment) First Choice Health Network, Inc - Seattle, WA April 2001 to May 2004 Designed and developed a 3-tiered web application to allow a group of 5400+ users to enroll for health insurance online replacing the need to process paper enrollment forms.  ? Sole developer responsible for development and maintenance of four web sites totaling 700+ pages.  ? Utilized XML and client/server scripting technologies to design and create a web-based administration tool which allowed maintenance of personal health information online.  ? Created VB COM+ components used in ASP pages to allow users to perform multiple types of searches for proprietary health information.  ? Designed, built and tested web applications for internal departments, using both 2-tier and 3-tier application designs.  ? Added a feature to web sites which created an Adobe PDF of a user's search results for physicians and hospitals.  ? Worked with internal departments to design and develop a web based financial reporting tool. Web Developer Enfolio. Inc - Seattle, WA October 2000 to February 2001 Developed the user interface for a web application used to manage private investment information.  ? Created web pages using custom server-side business logic components and client-side scripting.  ? Involved in database and stored procedure design and implementation for a schema consisting of 100+ tables.  ? Involved in entire project life cycle including design, specification, development and implementation. Web Consultant Point.com - Bothell, WA May 2000 to October 2000 Developed an online shopping cart for the e-commerce web site which sold cell phones and cell plans nationwide.  ? Created web pages to retrieve and modify XML data through middle tier VB COM+ objects.  ? Developed the online shopping cart's custom registration web pages for different cell phone and cell plan vendors.  ? Increased query performance and improved data input functionality by writing and modifying stored procedures. Web Developer LapLink.com - Bothell, WA April 1999 to May 2000 laplink.com), Bothell, WA    ? Responsible for development and maintenance of LapLink.com and LapLinkFTP.com web sites.  ? Created new web pages which were integrated with SQL Server for user registration and pages with dynamic content.  ? Created a web based data entry tool used to maintain LapLinkFTP.com web site content.  ? Worked with internal departments to design and develop a web based data entry tool to report on web site registration and download activity. Web Developer Agra Earth and Environmental, Inc - Kirkland, WA January 1999 to March 1999 Developed and modified ASP pages to improve data input and reporting functionality for the company Intranet.  ? Optimized SQL queries and stored procedures to enhance the Intranets search & reporting capabilities.  ? Designed new layout of existing web pages based on internal department requests. Skills Ajax, Asp, Css, Dhtml, Internet information server, Asp.net, Ado, Dbms, Ado.net, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 9, Pl/sql, Sql, Visual studio, C#, Html, Javascript, Visual basic Additional Information Skills:  Languages: C#, Visual Basic.NET, VB Script, HTML/HTML5/DHTML/XHTML, JavaScript, PL/SQL, T-SQL, XML, XSL  Software: Visual Studio.2010-2017, Internet Information Server 6-8, Team Foundation Server 2013  OS: Microsoft Windows 2000/2003/XP/7/2012 server  DBMS: Microsoft SQL Server 7.0/2000/2005/2012/2015 Tools & Utilities, Oracle 9.i  Technologies: MVC, ASP.NET, ASP, ADO.NET, ADO, CSS, AJAX, Entity Framework