Junior .Net Developer Junior .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Seeking full time SDE opportunities Bothell, WA • Around 2+ years of professional experience in web development with good exposure to all phases of SDLC. Extensive  experience with Agile and Scrum.  • Strong understanding of Object-Oriented Programming concepts and writing complex Database queries, Stored Procedures,  Triggers, Cursors using SQL Server. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Junior .Net Developer Golfballs.com - Lafayette, LA June 2018 to February 2019 Designed, developed and launched window-based defective product detection reporting application module at Repacker station.  Achieved reduction in turnaround time by 60%.  • Implemented REST APIs to improve customer service ticketing system and customer satisfaction survey delivery.  Authenticated these APIs using OAuth 2.0.  Technology: Visual Studio .NET, ASP.NET, VB.NET, JavaScript (ES5), ReactJS, JSON, XML Web Services, SQL  Server, IIS Server, Jira, SVN, Bitbucket. Graduate Teaching Assistant Center for Advanced Computer Studies, UL - Lafayette, LA January 2017 to May 2018 Assisted the Instructor of Interactive Website Development coursework of UL school of Computing and Informatics to evaluate  and grade projects/assignments.  • Maintained regular office hours to meet, help the coursework enrolled students with any impediments in projects including  installation/setup of software, bugfixes and in clarifying concepts of web technology.  Technology: HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, SQL, XAMPP Web Developer Center for Advanced Computer Studies, UL - Lafayette, LA May 2017 to July 2017 • Worked extensively with a research scientist to collect functional requirements of the EESE Center website.  • Developed a responsive web interface with complete research information and live streaming of remote SCADA system.  • Managed and maintained software documentation of the website being developed.  Technology: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Twitch Server Web Developer Doclick Solutions - Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu August 2015 to July 2016 • Gathered and documented the design and functional requirements of the project from the Cakes&Cookies client.  • Developed a complete responsive e-commerce website "Relish Cakes&Cookies" to look up for client-associated bakery shops,  make advanced category filter search and place orders.  • Received credits from the client for my artsy look of UI development.  • Trained new members in onboarding to the team, helped in reviewing and optimizing the code.  Technology: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript (ES5), jQuery (Ajax), PHP, SQL, XAMPP Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Louisiana - Lafayette, LA May 2018 B.Tech in Information Technology in Information Technology Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College May 2016