Web Development Educator <span class="hl">Web</span> Development Educator Web Development Educator - Thinkful Campbell, CA I'm an experienced developer and IT administrator.  I have solid experience as a full-stack web developer, and I  love the challenge involved in creating and managing practical  working applications. I work extremely well with others in a team  environment.  My technical languages / skills include:  Ruby, Ruby on Rails, Node.js, React, Angular, Git/Github, HTML,  CSS, SASS, JQuery, JavaScript, MySQL, PHP, with moderate  experience developing for .NET core and working in C#. I have  moderate experience creating Alexa skills and developing Lambda  functions. I've launched and maintained applications on platforms  like Heroku, Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure, and AWS.  I'm a huge proponent of Test Driven Development, especially in  it's utility in creating efficient collaboration and contribution to open  source projects.  I'm skillful at working LAMP configurations and Unix environments.  I'm experienced with CMS software, particularly Wordpress, and  have worked with clients in a front-facing role to design as well as  develop. I have experience using common project management tools  like Trello and Basecamp.  I like to lift other folks up -- to be a support when the team needs it,  but also to lead from the front when called to by circumstances as  well. I take great pride in my work ethic, and joy in creating things. Work Experience Web Development Educator Thinkful October 2018 to Present Remote  I work as an educator / grader for Bloc / Thinkful. I spend time reviewing  assignments and providing constructive feedback to students, in addition to gentle coaching and encouragement. I take pride in being a great resource for  students who are learning our trade. Sys-admin duties Alain Pinel Realtors - Saratoga, CA March 2017 to Present Keeps third-party development teams on track, setting and driving project  goals and managing testing for accountability.  • Manages the commercial side of development, setting clear financial goals  directly related to development timelines for third-party vendors, and holding  them accountable as directed by the executive and management teams.  • Being the voice of the internal team with the vendors, and the vendors with the internal team  • Handles the administration of the development process  • Develops internal software as necessary to meet company needs utilizing  available resources.  • Identifies whether an internal or external solution is best for company needs.  • Manages the implementation of current software solutions (both web-based  and otherwise.)  • Setting realistic timelines for software rollouts and adoption.  • Gathering data and analytics about tools our internal clients use, and using  that data to improve their work-life.  • Utilizing project management tools to keep stakeholders and internal teams  informed Full Stack Web Developer Alain Pinel Realtors - Saratoga, CA November 2014 to Present Web development using LAMP stack (Linux, Apache, MySql, Php), development using semantic HTML, CSS, JavaScript, software implementation and project management. Web development using Ruby on Rails.  Project management, including implementation of third-party CMS software,  JavaScript-powered integrations via API.  Development and integration of datafeeds as a business solution. Some Linux Web Developer Zanshin Industries - Campbell, CA February 2009 to November 2014 Developing and then managing website. Re-built from HTML, using modern  CMS software for ease of client use. Managing updates, bug-handling and updating content.  As Above Web Design Web Developer Campbell, CA August 2006 to January 2010 Primary developer, using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and PHP to create websites  and web solutions for clients. Managed CMS software for clients (Wordpress, Joombla) and created Flash content at client's request. Asst. General Manager Blowfish Sushi to Die For June 2004 to August 2007 General Manager Starbucks Coffee Co September 2001 to February 2004 Responsibilities: At Starbucks I was responsible for hiring, ordering, implementation of marketing programs, P&L analysis and action plans  based on the information gathered thereby, and day to day managing of the store. I opened a new store for the company, hiring a staff from scratch, and  taking them through training and creating a profitable store that was an asset to it's local community. I left to finish my education, on good terms. Skills Faa, Marketing, FAA Licensed sUAS (Drone) Pilot, part 107 (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bradfordchristopher?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3BI4N5mJAqScixVlM%2F1HRH1w%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile Additional Information Skills  Aerial Photography  Photography  FAA Certified sUAS Pilot  Web Development  Marketing