Front-End Developer Front-End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front-End Developer - CSX Technology, Jacksonville Jacksonville, FL • 10+ years of strong experience as a Front-End UI Developer in analysis, design, development, and testing of different modules.  • Expert in developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using JavaScript, jQuery, XUL, HTML5 /DHTML, DOM, XHTML, XML, JSON, CSS3, and Ajax.  • Experience in developing and creating rich user interfaces and related data modeling using Angular4  • Experience in applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, Joi, JSON, and XML.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided byAngular4.  • Extensive experience with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, and agile software methodologies (scrum).  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Angular.js, Knockout.js, Express.js, Underscore.js, React.js, React native Ember.js, Pdf.js, Spine.js, Ext.JS, Responsive design.  • Experience with Java web framework technologies, such as GWT and spring.  • Experienced implementing Web Services using Apache SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RPC,JAX-WS, RESTful and UDDI. Expert in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various SEO techniques.  • Knowledge in UX design, UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4, Adobe Fireworks CS3 and Adobe Illustrator CS3, Notepad++.  • Experience in designing UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop, and Adobe Illustrator CS3.  • Worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS manipulation. Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats  • Implemented Angular 4 Services for connectivity Between web application &back-end API'S using TypeScript  • Developed scalable applications using the MEAN (Mongo-DB + ExpressJS + AngularJS+ NodeJS) stack and created POC's for rest service development using NodeJS, Express. JS and MongoDB.  • High level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Developed UI using JQuery and JavaScript Library for Web Application and Mobile Application.  • Designed web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization SEO techniques.  • Responsible in transforming the wireframes and mockups to develop web pages and optimize user experience.  • Good experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML, AGILE, SCRUM.  • Implementing jQuery, Node.js and modularized front-end using CSS. JavaScript with SASS.  • Excellent oral and written communication skills and interpersonal skills.  • Used NPM for installing required node modules and other published Angular NPM modules.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Toolbar for IE.  • Followed Agile Methodology with daily scrum meetings, two-week sprint planning and retrospectives. Used Jira as a Tool for tracking the estimates based on the User Stories and iterations for each sprint and GIT for code repository. Work Experience Front-End Developer CSX Technology, Jacksonville April 2018 to Present Description: CSX Corporation is an American holding company focused on rail transportation and real estate in North America, among other industries.  • Developed Responsive Web Application using HTML5, SASS, Angular 4/6, AEM, jQuery, Node JS, Webpack, Grunt, JSON, RXJs.  • Experience working withAngular 4 including building components, directives, Routers and other modules based on Angular CLI.  • Implemented Angular6 Can Activate and Deactivate methods for guarding access to pages, navigation between pages and to prevent accidental loss of data entered.  • Worked on Angular 6 Directives, Dependency Injection, Services, Routing, pipes, Animations, Forms, AOT, Lazy Loading, RXJS.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture. Active usage of React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Experience in working in Node environment using Node.js, NPM modules, Grunt, Gulp, Bower and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web application.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using AJAX, JSON, integrate between different applications and services  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Expertise in using Angular JS Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templates, Events and Injectors.  • Integrated web applications with Adobe Experience Manager (AEM)  • Extensive experience working with JavaScript libraries, especially jQuery  • Extensive knowledge in developing single - page applications (SPAs).  • Good experience on customizing CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and Foundation using CSS pre-processors LESS or SASS and Compass.  • Knowledge on web debugging tools (Firebug, Fiddler debugging tool) and used integration Testing frameworks and libraries like Jasmine, Mocha and Karma for Angular JS and Node JS. Experience in working with databases like MongoDB and MySQL  • Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT, Subversion and CI/CD implementation using Jenkins. Used JIRA solution as bug tracking solution.  • Experience in all phase of SDLC with Agile and SCRUM.  • Ability to work effectively while working as a team member as well as individually.  • Excellent communication and Inter-Personal Skills, well organized, goal oriented.  • Created TypeScript components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular.  • Used media queries for mobiles tablets and desktop layouts.  • Used visualization framework D3.JS to render the data in the front-end charts from server.  • Developed Drag and Drop Components using AEM Content Management System and created multiple static pages in authoring environment in various languages & Regions.  • Use Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) to develop drag and drop Components, Templates, Taxonomy, metadata management, Forward and Reverse Replication, Workflows, Content Publishing and unpublishing, Tagging, Analytics and Deployment (Maven).  • Implemented HTTP requests using RXJs Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Updated the application with new features of Angular 6 from Angular 4.0.  • Worked with http interceptor's configurations for security in Angular applications.  • Setup Jasmine and Karma for UNIT and Functional Testing of JavaScript with mocking frameworks and spies.  • Experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, and Spring2.5/3.0.  • Background in Java/J2EE environments. Well experienced in MVC architecture of spring framework.  • Used Google analytics to track and report the website traffic.  • Worked on the new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, and form validators.  • Implemented pre-authentication data base security using Spring security and Spring Batch for scheduling and of batch jobs.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers like Safari, Opera, Firefox, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer.  • Followed Quality Processes like Continuous Integration/ Continuous Development with Jenkins & code quality using SonarQube and involved in Code reviews.  • Using Webpack to generate static assets representing modules from dependencies.  • Expertise in creating responsive style sheets using CSS with SASS, Bourbon and NEAT.  • Used Webpack to bundle Typescript to JavaScript and minify CSS.  • Developed SOAP based XML web services.  • Developed RESTful APIs using Nodejs Loopback in middleware and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Toolbar for IE.  • Followed Agile Methodology with daily scrum meetings, two-week sprint planning and retrospectives. Used Jira as a Tool for tracking the estimates based on the User Stories and iterations for each sprint and GIT for code repository.  Environment: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, jQuery, DHTML, MVC, DOM, JSON, Angular.js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, AJAX, SOAP, XML, XPATH, Adobe Flash, Jira, Jasmine, Photoshop. ReactJS Developer Automation Anywhere, San-Jose, California January 2015 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed Frontend within object-oriented JavaScript Framework like React.Js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Express.js, Underscore.js, Pdf.js, Ember.js, and Ext.js.  • React and Functional Driven JavaScript expert in SPAs, UI Components, Mobile web and Performance optimization  • Worked extensively on ReactJS Bootstrap 3, RESTful web-services, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, media queries for responsiveness.  • Developed user interface by using the React Js, Flux for SPA Development.  • Developed the Drag and Drop functionality using React -Draggable.  • Hands on experience using Firebug for Mozilla, developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Solid understanding of React Virtual Dom Algorithm, for React performance optimization  • Implemented and design the application to interact with the server for getting the Ajax response of jqGrid Data.  • Modularized Front-End CSS and Node JS code with sass. Built real-time mouse/click user analytics web services with Node JS.  • Ran bower and grunt components and wrote the scripting using Node JS implemented a NodeJS server to manage authentication. Implemented modules into NodeJS to integrate with the design and requirements  • Used ReactJS in components like JSX, creating react components, Virtual  • Expertise in life cycle methods to control the component mounting, updating and unmount in React Js.  • Leveraged react-native-text-input-mask to handle filtering user input in near-Realtime  • Develop reusable React Component which can be used by other developers and other areas of the application.  • Implemented map StateToProps, map DispatchToProps for the interactions between Redux and React  • Responsible for setting up react environment which includes setting up a build system with Webpack, NPM, Babel for ES6, ReactRouter for app routing, Redux for state management.  • Used Firebug and Chrome Developer Tools for debugging and for element styling.  • Experience integrating RESTful APIs and web services with applications.  • Extensively used Node.js tools like Gulp, Grunt, Developed internal CLI applications for application build.  • Experience in building Micro services with the help of Spring Boot and developed spring-based applications with very less configuration.  • Designed and developed the REST based Micro services using the Spring Boot.  • Implemented Micro services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Micro services and enabled discovery using Netflix Eureka Server.  • Developed user interface using JSP with JavaBeans, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, Node.js, HTML, SASS and Ajax to increase the speed of the application.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Used MS Visio and Photoshop tools for web application development.  • Converted .PSD files (Adobe Photo Shop document) into HTML and wireframes into user interfaces according to design specifications.  • Excellent understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and methodologies like agile approaches. Involved in Design, Development, Bug fixing, Improvement and Enhancement of web application modules.  • Demonstrated development experience with both producing and consuming web services (SOAP and REST).  • Extensive use of data visualization tools like D3.js. Utilized JIRA and Bugzilla for bug tracking.  • Extensively used polymer.js library for creating custom web components.  • Designed and documented REST APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Sass, Typescript, Node.js, Express.js, React. JS, Gulp, JavaScript, JQuery2.x, Bootstrap3, D3.js, Mongo DB, Jasmine, Karma, Apache Tomcat 8.x, Jenkins, word press, .net, Agile, Rest API. Web Developer and designer W2software solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to November 2014 I love computers, design, creation, and challenges: I have experience with web development languages/libraries like React, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX/APIs, Firebase, Node.js, MySQL, MongoDB, Mongoose, Express & Handlebars as well as advanced training with design software like the Adobe Creative Suite. Recently, I completed a certificate in Full Stack Web Development at the end of July from The University of Richmond. Additionally, I'm an experienced and enthusiastic Project/Team Manager looking for the next great opportunity to help grow a business both financially and culturally. A longstanding and proven track record in sales, customer service and employee recruitment/development headline a vast skill set. Seeking to re-immerse myself into a creative environment and build long term relationships that represent sustainable business.  • Used Angular js as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Responsible for the overall layout design that meet cross-device compatibility using Bootstrap, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, and CSS3  • Used angular, bootstrap, CSS Framework to make pages responsive by using built-in CSS and JavaScript components.  • Used JavaScript as basic scripting language for coding, Web Storm as IDE and bower to install Angular js packages.  • Experience developing web pages using Angular js Framework and familiar with various Angular js directives and services.  • Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows  • Analysis, design and development of Application based on J2EE and Design Patterns  • Developed user interface with JSP, JavaScript, DHTML, jQuery and AJAX  • Wrote OraclePL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, views for backend database access  • Implemented Page Optimization techniques for web pages, Best Practices in JavaScript and handled Cross Browser compatibility issues in web page  • Participated in gathering the requirements and creating the wireframe mock ups  • Interacted with business users on daily basis for gathering of new requirements.  • Used Selectors in jQuery for updating content on DOM nodes  • Worked on JavaScript and Browser Cache mechanism for storing and retrieving data for the website  • Used SVN for version control and JIRA for defect tracking  • Used JDBC, application server provided transaction API for accessing data from the Oracle the using standard statements  • Translated market and product requirements into UI designs in the form of conceptual models, wire frames and prototypes  • Tested/Debugged web browser using Firebug and Chrome Developer Toolbar  • Documented the application for new features and functionalities.    Environment: HTML, Angularjs, JavaScript, CSS, Eclipse IDE, Java (JSP), Jira, SVN, Adobe Photoshop, Oracle, SVN, AJAX, SQL, PL-SQL, JDBC, UML, Firebug, Apache Tomcat, Wireframes. Web Developer Bhavika info solutions PVT LTD - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities: Bhavika Info is Indian based private company, which develops and supports the web applications fo My duties as a web developer include maintenance and creation of web sites through custom WordPress themes and plugins. I work with team leaders and designers to help create and implement custom design and functionality for web sites. Code for custom themes and plugins is written in PHP, java script, jQuery, and CSS/SCSS/SASS. This code is backed up multiple times a day to our Git repository. I also assist with any PC, network, or peripheral related issues that arise in the office. r the USA based consulting companies.    • Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery and AJAX.  • Worked with Bootstrap.js and other jQuery JavaScript libraries to make website responsive and interactive.  • Supported internal employee use application developed in Angular.js framework.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Used Ajax, JSON with jQuery for request data and response processing.  • Experienced in Front-end development frameworks & tools such as Redux (ES 5 and 6, babel, Web pack), Angular js ,Ember.js , Backbone.js , Underscore.js , Handlebars.js.  • Integrated real-time user interface for project management app using html SocketIO.  • HTML, CSS, Ajax and all the leading browsers to design the website content.  • Developed JavaScript based components using JavaScript framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions. Worked on Backbone.js to create Models to represent data.  • Created JUnit test cases to cover unit testing for the components.  • Git repository for version control, tagging and distributed non-linear workflows.  • JIRA to track issues, defects and bugs as well as project progress.  Environment: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery and jQuery UI, AJAX, JIRA, Firebug, Backbone.js, Junit, Git. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, JSON, XML, XSLT, AJAX, DHTML, HTML5, KNOCKOUT, jQuery, MYSQL, ORACLE, ORACLE 8, PL/SQL, SQL, BACKBONE, MONGODB Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies: JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON, Apache, HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DOM, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, Joi.  JavaScript Libraries: Ext JS 2.0/1.0, Angular.js, Node.js, Knockout.js, Express.js, Ember.js, React.js, Underscore.js, Pdf.js, Backbone.js, Require.js.  Databases: Oracle 8/8i/9i/10g/11g, PL/SQL (oracle), MSSQL, MySQL, MongoDB  Protocols: FTP, HTTP, HTTPS, POP3, SMTP  Graphic Editors: Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4/CS5, Adobe Creative Suite