Senior Application Developer Senior Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Lombard, IL Experienced Front End Web Developer interested in a challenging new role in the IT Industry with the opportunity to work with the latest web technologies and diverse projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Application Developer Press Ganey Associates - Chicago, IL November 2016 to Present • Working on a large-scale enterprise application that provides survey data to over 200 clients.  • Developing custom validation forms using the latest version of Angular.  • Applying custom styling and configuration to data charts using Highcharts.  • Translating business requirements, UI wireframes into quality software.  • Developing new and maintaining existing RESTful APIs with ASP.NET Web API.  • Deploying projects using Jenkins. UI Web Developer Resource One - Contractor at Press Ganey Associates - Chicago, IL March 2016 to November 2016 • Developed UI widget functionality using AngularJS and Highcharts where data would display in widgets and radials.   • Worked with UX Designer to put together a Front-End Style Guide where approved design patterns were accessible for all teams developing Press Ganey projects.  • Used GIT version control to manage files for projects. UI Web Developer Express Employment Professionals - Contractor at Intellectual Tech - Oak Park, IL January 2016 to March 2016 • Worked independently on a small team developing a Customer Relationship Management application.  • Developed a RESTFul API using OAuth2 to access Microsoft calendars, contacts, and email addresses.  • Built a UI registration and payment form with payment processing using Stripe. Web Developer American Osteopathic Association - Chicago, IL March 2007 to January 2016 • Developed a custom web-based membership application where members of affiliates could sign up and renew their annual membership.  • Developed multiple custom web-based forms where medical students and doctors could submit secured detailed information.  • Worked with other developers re-enhancing a medical research application where applicants could enter case studies that were published in a medical journal magazine.  • Created multiple custom conference registration forms integrated with PayPal to receive credit card transactions. Education Bachelor of Applied Science in Applied Science Robert Morris University - Chicago, IL 2000 to 2003 Skills API, C#, GIT, HTML, JavaScript, Node.js, Typescript, Jenkins, Coldfusion, CSS, SQL, AngularJS, MVC, Angular, Front End, UI, Front-End, User Interface, Bootstrap, HTML5, Jquery Links http://linkedin.com/in/deanjmccoy