Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior PHP Full Stack Web Developer Las Vegas, NV Have more than 20 years of combined IT programming, analysis and design experience using both PC, mini/mainframe and web technologies. These include more than 5 years of ERP (PeopleSoft) analysis and development, 4 years in mini/mainframe programming and 11 years of internet/e-commerce design and development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Cayenta (A Division of Harris Computers) - Burnaby, BC February 2017 to November 2018 · Part of a team that do maintenance and development of the HR and Financial Applications of the company.  · Extensive experience debugging, troubleshooting, unit testing and performance tuning of various processes.  Freelance Web Developer TravelTours4Less, GK Prosperity Alliance July 2015 to February 2017  www.traveltours4less.com (Calgary, AB) Freelance Web Developer                · Developed a website from scratch that allows interactive data gathering for prospective travelers to be able to provide them the cheapest plane tickets, hotel and car rentals.      www.gkprosperityalliance.com (Burnaby, BC) Freelance Web Developer                · Single handedly developed a website from scratch that serves as a recruitment tool and back office for prospective distributors. This include videos playing, forms and files download, views/edit of user profile pages, login and registration page, dashboard, genealogy reports, placement/locking and downline monitoring system. Senior Web Developer Consultant Tata Consulting Services ( Client: Northern Trust Corp.) - Chicago, IL September 2014 to July 2015 · Developed a charting and table framework that are used for customer investment performance analysis.  · Modified and developed web pages to make it responsive for mobiles and tablets.  · Highly involved in unit testing, debugging, fixing defects of web pages. Senior Web Developer Consultant TEKsystems (Client: Walt Disney, Inc.) - Seattle, WA December 2013 to May 2014 · Developed a tool that automates the cutting and conversion of dynamic map images into thousands of static map images for detail pages in order to have more efficient and faster loading.  · Developed a map tool to automate the process of cutting map overlays for dynamic viewing of map. This tool includes functionalities for viewing and comparison of map images for different versions.  · Modified some pages to make it responsive for mobiles and tablets.  · Highly involved in unit testing, debugging, troubleshooting and performance tuning of web pages. Senior Software Engineer eBay, Inc. - Valencia, CA June 2010 to November 2013 · Plays a major role in the full-cycle design and development of e-commerce web site of this company.  · Participated in major enhancements and converts lots of photoshop mockups to a data driven website.  · Extensive experience debugging, troubleshooting, unit testing and performance tuning of various processes.   · Provided mentorship to junior and less experienced programmers. Chief Web Architect/ Developer Dream Success Intenational - Henderson, NV June 2005 to May 2010 · Actively involved in the development and design of the corporate portal website.   · Conceptualized and designed business model and independent associates’ compensation plans.  · Played a major role in the architechture and development of the MLM company associates back office which include management of associates’ profile, tracking of commissions and sales, tracking of associates enrollment and recruits, email autoresponder and generation of reports.  · Single handedly designed and developed the company’s marketing tools such as Dream calculator and power point presentations.  · Evaluated 3rd party software and hardware packages for the company use.  · Provided day to day management assistance and operations of IT including system security and backups in case of any systems failures and devised protective and recovery strategies.  · Worked with Executive Team in developing long-term product vision and roadmap.  · Led in strategic technological planning to achieve business goals by prioritizing technology initiatives and coordinating the evaluation, deployment, and management of current and future technologies and products. Senior Peoplesoft Technical Analyst Quiksilver - Huntington Beach, CA November 2000 to June 2005 Platinum Consulting Group Clients: Advance Data Processing - Portland, OR Paymentech - Salem, New Hampshire Peoplesoft Consultant  AAC (Huntington Beach, CA) Client: Lockheed Martin/US Navy - New Orleans, LA Peoplesoft Consultant  RJT Consulting (Huntington Beach, CA) Client: Warner Brothers - Burbank, CA PeopleSoft Consultant/Programmer Analyst Education Computer Programming DE PAUL UNIVERSITY - Chicago, IL BS in Mathematics ADVENTIST UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES Skills PHP, MySQL, Laravel, CodeIgniter, CSS, HTML, Javascript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Drupal, COBOL, Java, Angular2 (10+ years), MYSQL, PHP, Javascript, Git, CSS, HTML 5, MYSQL, PHP, Javascript, Git