Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Surprise, AZ Work Experience Web Developer I2G Technology LLC - Surprise, AZ September 2018 to June 2019 Design and built custom websites for customers from the ground up. Manage customer's current  websites. Ran website audits and improve websites as needed to improve SEO. Also built  websites on different CMS platforms such as WordPress, creating themes and plugins as needed, but not limited to that. Web Developer Hoamco - Scottsdale, AZ January 2018 to September 2018 Assist lead developer in the creation and building of a community website, this website was built to be used by multiple community with their own branding. Integrated an API into website for members to use. Web Developer Printed Mint - Phoenix, AZ April 2017 to July 2017 Assisted in the design and coding of a Wordpress and WooCommerce plugin for the company. Coding the    plugin in mostly PHP and J-Query for functionality and form validation. Web Developer Daystar Products International - Phoenix, AZ May 2015 to April 2017 Design, build and maintain company's websites, mobile websites and databases. Maintain current company  websites and databases, while new ones are being rolled out. Set-up, maintain company's VPSs and Dedicated Servers. Maintain Customer E-mail list and assist in e-mail campaigns. Set-up and manage PPC    campaigns, monitors competitions PPC activity on line. Perform SEO and SEM on all company's website.    Develop and manage Social media campaign. Build MYSQL database for online and trade show forms for new and existing customers' information entries and updates. Planning, implementing and maintaining the  company's E-commerce's web strategy. Optimized existing databases' structure and queries for better  performance; designed and built new database and table structure to interact real time with the website, with speed and performance in mind. Web Designer/ Developer Spotlight Marketing Solutions - Avondale, AZ February 2012 to May 2015 Design, build and maintain clients' websites and Ecommerce website, some of which built in WordPress.  Manage and maintain company's servers. Offer assistance to clients with their affiliate programs and websites. Develop social marketing programs and PPC Campaigns for clients. Maintain WHMCS and  optimized companies databases, optimizing and repairing tables, keeping them up-to-date and reliable. E-Marketer Zia Furniture - Tempe, AZ December 2010 to February 2012 E-Marketing  Design e-flyers for posting on the web and maintain company web site and assisted in designing and building company's new website. Web Developer and E-Marketing Specialist LemmonTree Marketing Group - Tempe, AZ June 2010 to October 2010 Maintain and up-date content on client's web sites, along with adding new pages as needed using  Dreamweave r and CMS. Broadcast client's newsletters and maintain member database, along with designed and building databases when needed. Design E newsletters and Cards. Develop code for sites    with PHP and MYSQL as needed. TRS level 1 agent Volt Technical Resources - Tempe, AZ January 2009 to April 2009 Assisted customers in installing their 2wire routers, troubleshooting connection problem for wired and wireless, checked work orders as far as making sure DSL internet connection is completed, walked caller in  installation of software for internet connections. Intern PHP, Assistant Web developer MECSB, LLC - Scottsdale, AZ October 2008 to November 2008 Assistant in the design and coding of various projects (websites), writing in PHP and JavaScript, also used  Dreamweaver in the editing of sites. Duties also assisted in the design and implementation of databases Loan Officer Cambridge Lending Financial, LLC - Southfield, MI September 2005 to July 2008 Installed and upgraded software, added e-mail accounts, maintained office network, resolved software  issues over the phone with employees, also originated and processed mortgages. Supervisor (family business) Shelton Sprinkler Company - Oak Park, MI March 1984 to July 2008 Sold, schedule and supervise crews for underground sprinkler system installation and repair.  Designed, built and maintained customer database, and the company's website. Temporary Contractual KForce Incorporated - Southfield, MI November 2004 to June 2008 assignments in computer support with companies including:  Network Installation Technician for Chili's Restaurant in Livonia  PC Support for Dell Computer Leasing, and AT&T in Southfield  Installation Technician for the Social Security Administration in Detroit, and Datalink in Sterling Heights    ? Installed a computer network at a newly constructed Chili's Front establishment and back office  ? Troubleshot the connectivity of the site, making necessary corrections to bring the site on-line  ? Installed POS (Point of Sale) registers and monitors, KDS monitors and bump bars in the kitchen  ? Installed the server, router and switch in the main office  ? Downloaded updates on server  ? Handled necessary cable management and ran checks on entire system to ensure proper service  and connectivity  ? Installed and tested CISCO router, hubs and switch  ? Installed and configured Lexmark print devices onto the network at the Social Security  administration for a contract with Siemens Business Solution  Performed critical enterprise-wide system patches for 2000 PRO, XP and ' 98, as well as application updates  ? Assisted in mass deployment. Education Master of Science in Graphical Information Technology in Graphical Information Technology Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ December 2019 Bachelor of Applied Science in Internet and Web Development in Internet and Web Development Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ August 2010 to December 2012 Associate in Applied Science in Computer Information System Glendale Community College - Glendale, AZ August 2008 to May 2010 Skills PHP, Javascript, Wordpress, HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), MySQL, HTML5, Front End, Bootstrap, Jquery