Senior Angular Developer Senior Angular <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Angular Developer - Braintree Payments Columbus, OH * Around 11 years of experience developing enterprise applications using UI/UX technologies in Telecom, Health Insurance, eCommerce and Banking.  * Comprehensive work experience through all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) starting with project initiation, requirement gathering, requirement analysis, functional design, detail design, development and implementation of multi-tier enterprise, web based and distributed applications.  * Experienced in working with teams which are co-located and also lead remote offshore development.  * Experienced in full stack web / java development ranging from UI development to backend CRUD operations with Databases  * Ability to develop and deployment of multi-tiered web based enterprise applications using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Angular, React, Vue, Express, and EXT.js.  * Capability in designing the applications by applying OOAD principles and developing UML diagrams, like Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and etc using Rational Rose, Power Designer and Microsoft Visio.  * Strong experience in development of GUI (Graphical User Interface) using Java swing, JSP, JSTL, Struts, JSP, JSF, Ajax, Rich Faces, Java Script, HTML, DHTML and CSS.  * Experienced in working with IDE Tools like WebSphere Studio Application Developer / Rational Application Developer (RAD/ WSAD), JBuilder and Eclipse.  * Worked with several frameworks like Struts, JSF, Hibernate, spring with GUI plug-ins like Tiles Framework, validation plug-ins like Validator Framework.  * Hands-on experience on different kinds of databases Ms-Sql Server, Oracle, DB2, UDB, Mysql, Hypersonic databases and proficiency in writing complex SQL, PL/SQL developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages.  * Experience in development and deployment of SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) based Applications using Web Services including WSDL and SOAP (Developed Web Service client/host services using JAX-WS, REST, Axis and XML Beans.  * Ability to develop and maintain deep understanding of technologies used, both conceptually as well as in the implementation details.  * Excellent analytical, communication, organization and time management skills very good experience in programming & problem solving.  * Possess in-depth knowledge in java frameworks such as Struts, Spring, Hibernate  * Understand the back-end process from oracle database (query & pl/sql).  * Involved in performance tuning and code quality assurance.  * Skilled with Version Control like Git, Subversion, AccuRev and Maven.  * Experience in analytical knowledge on debugging and fixing defects. Work Experience Senior Angular Developer Braintree Payments - Chicago, IL August 2017 to Present Description:  Braintree Payments Braintree's commerce infrastructure tools enable secure sharing of payment data between partners to help create new distribution channels and make these experiences possible. Consumer purchases product or service on partner platform.    Responsibilities:  * Assisted/mentored team members in matters relating to Angular 5 to ensure products were released in a timely fashion and that the code remained organized.  * Designed and developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript to facilitate the digital transformation of the current investment banking division's website.  * Implemented Two-way data-binding in AngularJS which helps the application handle the automatic synchronization of data between the model and view components using typescript and angular 4.  * Designed, Developed and analyzed the front-end and back-end using JSP, Servlets and spring.  * Designed JSP layout using Struts Tiles Framework.  * Used angular-cli tool to configuring the angular project and building it for development of Angular application using Angular 4.  * Developed the Reactive container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable)  * Utilized Angular 5 to build multiple Client facing websites for figure eight.  * Development of front-end application using Angular 2 JS, Dependency injection, Rx and Http modules with Node.js server for future evolutions.  * Designed and Developed Styled components for mobile application  * Managed and implemented all codes changes using SVN.  * Used Angular 4 in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  * Integrated the different pages to be a single page application using Angular 4 and Typescript.  * Design UI scripting using typescript in Angular 2.  * Used jQuery plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  * Create Reactive forms using Angular 5 for greater form control and validation.  * Involved in Agile process, Sprint meetings, attended daily standup meetings (Scrum), estimation meetings.  * API distributed in multiple domain module with multithreading, currently supporting Couchbase as database and running on the latest next generation edge technologies like Docker, Angular 2, Spring.  * Implemented React router for building the single page application.  * Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 4.  * Integrated Redux data store allowing React components to have access to data resulting in highly maintainable code.  * Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 2.  * Designed and developed the user portal using angularJS 2 along with HTML, CSS and TypeScript.  * Utilized React to build reusable components with JSX including (landing, forms, and buttons), resulting in optimized rendering and performance.  * Built Angular 5 components, UI services to consume rest services using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2/4.  * Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-full server on a different domain.    ENVIRONMENT: ANGULAR, JAVASCRIPT, HTML5, CSS3, REACT, VUE, JQUERY, BOOTSTRAP, EXPRESS.JS, WEB PACK, MOCHA.JS, JASMINE, JIRA, GITHUB, REST, SOAP AND SQL. Senior Angular Developer AT&T Inc - Dallas, TX March 2014 to July 2017 Description:  AT&T Inc. is an American multinational conglomerate holding company headquartered at Whitacre Tower in Downtown Dallas, Texas. AT&T is the world's largest telecommunications company. AT&T is also the second largest provider of mobile telephone services and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States.    Responsibilities:  * Extensive used of Angular.js for developing the SPAs (Single Page Applications) for internal application/tool.  * Created Web Applications with real-time, two-way connection, where both Client and Server can initiate communication by using Angular.js.  * Developed Single Page Applications (SPS) using Angular JS route providers and used Angular.  * Developed Bootstrap responsive web application pages using Angular.JS services, controllers and directives for front end UI and consumed RESTful web service API.  * Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins, AJAX, JavaScript.  * Used AngularJS built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  * Designed SPAs (Single Page Applications) using Angular JS concepts of Directives, Services, Promises, Templating, Scope, Dependency Injection and two-way data binding.  * Implemented stable components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  * Participated in requirement gathering meetings with the stakeholders for layout and color scheme development to enhance the website and implement them using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  * Developed Web services to allow communication between the applications using Rest Web Services.  * Developed Web API's for backend data communication.  * Experienced in working with Angular JS for Client side scripting and synchronizing the applications.  * Developed frontend of application using Bootstrap (Model, View, Controller), Angular.js framework.  * Created Angular JS controllers, services and used Angular JS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  * Developed the flux pattern by using Redux.js framework as a core dependency.  * Created Registration forms and profiles for the clients using the HTML, CSS, SQL Server, XML and JQuery.  * Created a POC on backend REST API services using Node JS and Mongo.  * Involved in configuring the GitHub repository and maintain the version control using GIT.  * Involved to implement various screens for the front end using Angular.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  * Leveraging Angular JS resources for all data access, encapsulating URL's and standardizing data access interfaces.    ENVIRONMENT: HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, BOOTSTRAP, ANGULAR.JS, ANGULAR-UI, NODE.JS, EXPRESS.JS, MEAN STACK, WEB PACK, MOCHA.JS, JASMINE, JIRA, JENKINS, GIT HUB, SUBLIME, ECLIPSE, MVC. Angular Developer ANTHEM INC - Indianapolis, IN November 2011 to February 2014 Description:  Anthem, Inc. is an American health insurance company founded in the 1940s, prior to 2014 known as WellPoint, Inc. It is the largest for-profit managed health care company in the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.    Responsibilities:  * Used Angular.js framework where data from backend is stored in model using http and security configurations for authentication and authorization for populated model on to UI.  * Used JavaScript for client-side validation and Struts Validator Framework for form validations  * Implemented SQL queries and used stored procedures, and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases.  * Wrote complex queries in SQL involving joins to obtain required data from the persistent layer.  * Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  * Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Angular.js  * Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using AngularJS directives.  * Interfaced with the Oracle back-end using Hibernate Framework and XML config files.  * Used Eclipse for the development environment.  * Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  * Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  * Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox Firebug and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.    ENVIRONMENT: HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, ANGULAR.JS, NODE.JS, WEB PACK, JASMINE, JIRA, JENKINS, GIT HUB, SUBLIME, ECLIPSE, MVC. Web Developer The Home Depot Inc - Atlanta, GA April 2009 to October 2011 Description:  The Home Depot Inc. or Home Depot is an American home improvement supplies retailing company that sells tools, construction products, and services.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in design and Development of UI using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  * Created an internal browser based text editor using html, CSS, java script, jQuery  * Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  * Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, CSS optimization, and ADA compliance support.  * Used MVN commands to compile the application, build war, deploy on the server, start Server  * Developed database stored procedures, functions, triggers and sequences.  * Developed the server side using java and front end with java scripting, XML, HTML.  * Wrote code to implement AJAX based application by fetching the response from backend API as a part of JSON.  * Interfaced with third-party vendors to customize UI/UX solutions for web verticals    ENVIRONMENT: JAVACSRIPT, HTML, CSS, SQL, JQUERY, JSON, XHTML, AJAX. Web Developer AMEX - New York, NY July 2007 to March 2009 Description:  The American Express Company, also known as Amex, is an American multinational financial services corporation headquartered in Three World Financial Center in New York City. The company was founded in 1850, and is one of the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The company is best known for its credit card, charge card and traveler's check businesses.    Responsibilities:  * Worked on developing GUI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript (jQuery).  * Worked on implementing WebPages on the website using Code Igniter framework.  * Collaborated with one team member in design, analysis, coding, testing, and website review.  * Used iBATIS framework with spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  * Utilized CSS, Ajax, JQuery, MySQL queries for website design and development.  * Developed SQL scripts for data migration.  * Worked with technologies such as JQuery and Ajax to make the website more attractive and user friendly.    ENVIRONMENT: HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, MYSQL. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License