Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> I serve as a Lead Developer- ICF International Watertown, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Developer ICF International - Washington, DC April 2008 to Present Washington, DC (telecommute from Boston)    Utilizing the Agile/SCRUM methodology for software development, I serve as a Lead ColdFusion developer working for ICF International on the NISC contract for the FAA, HUD and various DOD projects. I have been successfully telecommuting from Boston and have been recognized with the SPOT award three times for my contributions. Daily development duties include: Object Oriented ColdFusion MVC/FW/1, ORM, MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, JQuery, Bootstrap with AngularJS when needed. Create design documents, UML Models, participate in requirements gathering and perform quality assurance checks to ensure a quality product.     Currently building a Drupal 8 site for the a government client.  Daily tasks include customizing modules, modifying our custom theme and writing custom functions.    I couple my experience in development with PM certification and an MBA in Entrepreneurship.    Example: https://www.hudexchange.info/  https://elibrary.cnic-n9portal.net/ Senior ColdFusion Developer Computer Science Corporation - Cambridge, MA March 2006 to March 2008 for the Air Transportation Oversight System (ATOS) and Flight Standards Information Management System (FSIMS). Lead a team of cross-functional developers in maintaining ATOS and FSIMS for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Participated in Join Application Development (JAD) sessions, tracked and reported on team hours and expenses on a weekly basis, allocated resources, set deadlines and milestones. Wrote Unit Tests, performed quality assurance checks and ensured customer satisfaction at every milestone. Sr. ColdFusion Developer/ Manager NPD Group - Cambridge, MA February 2005 to March 2006 developers. SQL Server, Studio 8 (ColdFusion MX 7, Dreamweaver 8). Web application designed around an object oriented framework with heavy use of ColdFusion Components (CFCs). Daily duties included constant communication with internal clients and translating that into technical requirements. Set workloads, prioritized business needs and ensured timely delivery of projects were met.    Example: http://www.partnership-plus.com Project Manager and Lead ColdFusion developer CitySoft - Boston, MA November 2004 to February 2005 for CitySoft. Gathered requirements and created design documents for development efforts. Environment utilized FuseBox architecture, heavy use of custom tags, and reusable code techniques were used throughout development. Modification and creation of advance JavaScript code were also within the scope of my daily duties. Tools used: ColdFusion Studio, Enterprise Manager, SQL Server 2000, IIS, VSS, FTP, Photoshop and Beyond Compare.    Example: http://www.ihrsa.org/ Senior ColdFusion developer for Consumer Real Estate Bank of America - Charlotte, NC May 2004 to November 2004 Home Equity Line of Credit and Home Equity Loans. XML, MVC architecture and Oracle database utilized in development. Heavy Project Management and process driven work flow, often scheduled initiatives country wide amongst many key players. ClearCase source control to coordinate development of multiple projects with tight deadlines both on and off shore. Created project plans, estimates, small enhancement specifications, low level and high level designs.    Examples:  http://www.bankofamerica.com/loansandhomes/apply  http://www.bankofamerica.com/loansandhomes/index.cfm?template=lc_heloc_loc_nofee Web Developer II University of Massachusetts Medical School - Worcester, MA March 2003 to May 2004 Involved with the development cycle from inception to launch. Worked within a framework designed exclusively for UMASS Medical School. Daily duties included ColdFusion development, client interaction, architecture and database design using SQL Server and Enterprise Manager. One of two developers that were responsible for numerous sites that UMASS Medical School supported. Eye on detail, and all sites were section 508 compliant. Coordinated the development of multiple projects within the organization, set project scope, plans, timelines and identified interdependencies.    Example: http://www.800AgeInfo.com    11/2002 - per diem  Oxygen. - (Consultant)  Boston, MA    Gathered requirements from the client to create a shopping cart application for Tiny Trapeze, a client of Oxygen. I was the sole developer for this project and created all test plans and provided quality assurance during the full cycle of development. I installed and configured ColdFusion Studio, ColdFusion Server 5.0 and Microsoft Access Database for this project. I created the database schema, which tracked all customer information, from shipping to billing. I finished the first round of development under budget and well ahead of schedule.    Example: http://www.associatedelevator.com/ Web Developer Synthenet Corp - Northborough, MA March 2002 to November 2002 Created dozens of web applications using ColdFusion, JavaScript, Photoshop and Macromedia Flash 5.0. Utilized "ToolBox" a Synthenet framework which emphasized code reuse and custom tags. I was lead developer on many applications including, but not limited to examples listed below. I was responsible for quality assurance as well as functionality from the web applications inception to launch. Database used for web applications: SQL Server and Oracle.    Examples:  www.triguard.com  www.interviewmastery.com  www.workingadvantage.com Senior Developer MunicipalNet - Boston, MA September 2000 to February 2002 Was responsible for enhancements and integrity of MunicipalNet.com. Heavy use of custom tags, structures, arrays, and the object-oriented methodology were employed throughout this site. JavaScript along with server side validation were used for forms. Stored procedures were written to speed up our extensive hits to our Oracle database. DBArtisan was utilized to analyze queries and interdependencies.    Example: http://www.municipalnet.com/ Web Developer (Consultant) GoTech - Seattle, WA March 2000 to August 2000 GoTech specialized in building applications for clients needing intranets or commercial presence. Microsoft Access was the database used, and schema was often left to the developers.  ColdFusion and JavaScript were the languages of choice in building the various applications. The utilization of Photoshop, Flash scripting, HTML and CSS were also part of my daily duties. Web Developer Cobalt Group - Seattle, WA June 1999 to March 2000 Used UNIX, FTP, Photoshop and Netterm were also part of my daily duties.    Please view my online portfolio for examples: http://angelfire.com/wa2/rdiveley Freelance Web Development January 1997 to June 1999 Was a freelance developer/designer, doing everything from design layout to hand-coded HTML and ColdFusion development with Access database. Used Photoshop, Homesite and Access. Account Manager Seattle, WA August 1994 to August 1998 Account management for AT&T Wireless and Bunge Foods. Education MBA in Entrepreneurship Babson College BA in Political Science University of California at San Diego - San Diego, CA Skills COLDFUSION (10+ years), QUALITY ASSURANCE (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), OBJECT ORIENTED (10+ years), Drupal 8 (Less than 1 year) Links http://angelfire.com/wa2/rdiveley Awards Spot 2016-12 Spot award won for my contributions to development work. I was nominated by my manager and was submitted to upper management for approval. Spot 2014-03 Spot award won for my contributions to development work. I was nominated by my manager and was submitted to upper management for approval. Spot 2013-03 Spot award won for my contributions to development work. I was nominated by my manager and was submitted to upper management for approval. Certifications/Licenses PMP Scrum Master June 2012 to Present Groups coldfusion user group Present Drupal.org January 2015 to Present Drupal community Additional Information Skills:    *19+ years Software development   *MBA Entrepreneurship  *PMP Certified, Certified ScrumMaster   *ITIL Foundations Certified  *Project Manager/Project Team Lead   *JQuery, JavaScript, Ajax  *Bootstrap   *Object Oriented ColdFusion  *MVC   *AngularJS  *Mura CMS and Drupal 8  *Agile/SCRUM *FW/1, DI/1  *Design documentation *ORM, SQL, MySQL, Oracle  *Subversion/SmartSVN /Git  *Section 508  *SASS/CSS