Graphic Designer and Web Developer Graphic Designer and <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Graphic Designer, Web Developer, Art Director, Creativity Coach Portland, OR I am a graphic designer, front-end web developer, art director, fine artist, writer and creativity coach with organizational and project management skills. With years of experience in designing and producing a wide range of print and presentation materials, I have worked with an equally diverse clientele from individual artists to major corporations on a wide range of projects. I have been consistently involved with website design and development for the past seventeen years, and I am accomplished in writing CSS, HTML, and media queries. I find it great fun to create fully functional responsive websites from scratch.    I am looking for freelance, contractual, and/or permanent part-time work, and for that special job, I will seriously consider full-time employment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Graphic Designer and Web Developer Independent Contractor position - Portland, OR January 2000 to Present Freelance Graphic Designer and Web Developer – 2000 to Present  Clientele: Advertising agencies, corporate in-house art departments, design studios, audio-visual companies, universities, municipalities, small businesses, medical practices, non-profits, and independent artists  Experienced with:  • Custom development of sites utilizing clean modern code, often from scratch  • Wireframing of sites based on clear communication and best practices  • UI and UX design with consideration for client’s needs and desires  • Design and production of booklets, direct-mail, packaging, logos, business forms,      invitations, booth display, PowerPoint presentations, ads, newsletters, posters,         various promotional materials, magazines, book covers and interiors, ebooks,     app icons, and online study guides  • Creating original and unique identity and branding systems  • Implementing design from within existing identity and branding guidelines    Graphic Designer and Web Developer – 2008 to Present  The Inside-Out Prison Exchange Program, Temple University  • Creation of visual identity standards, collaboration on Inside-Out brand  • Design, development, project management, and upkeep of program website  • Design and production of email blasts, social media graphics, and infographics  • Design of all print materials, from brochures to annual reports to teaching         manuals and more    Web Advisor/Instructor – 2010 to 2017  Advisor/Instructor in Web Design and Development for the Online Certificate Program at the Rutgers School of Business – Camden, Dept. of Executive Education  • One-on-one online teaching  • Development of curriculum and educational materials    Other Related Work Experience  • Exhibiting visual artist  • Editorial illustration, book cover illustration  • Painting and drawing teacher, creative consultant, portfolio coach  • Exhibition planning and design for visual arts events  • Art direction, arts administration, writing, and promotion for working musicians    Other Skills  Intensely creative and imaginative. Visually critical. Sharp instinct for color, composition, and spatial design. Strong writing and editing abilities. Working knowledge of Spanish. High mathematical aptitude, strong organizational skills,   ability to communicate ideas, to reason abstractly, to clearly visualize, to learn   quickly, and adapt to new situations. Excellent time management and efficiency. Proactive project management abilities. Education BFA in Fine Arts San Francisco Art Institute - San Francisco, CA September 1986 to May 1989 Skills Design (10+ years), UI, Front End Links https://www.alexandrialevin.com/ Publications Drawing Out the Muses http://www.paintedjay.com/ 2014-09 I am the author, visual designer, and publisher of this book.    Drawing Out the Muses is based on the premise that visual inspiration can be found anywhere; in nature, with household objects, though sound, using raw visual elements, dreams and even from being uninspired. This book shows you how sources of creativity can be found absolutely everywhere, and at anytime; while giving you countless ways of looking at absolutely anything resulting in infinite forms of expression.    Artists will learn about the nature of creativity and different ways of seeing things, with over 300 fun and serious examples, step-by-step processes, exercises, ideas, explorations, things to do, and ways of interpreting the world around you, most with multiple variations from which to choose. Every last one is designed to give you something to work on or play with, while helping to spark your own creativity in the process. Additional Information My expertise is in being both logical and creative, intuitive and pragmatic. I work to seamlessly combine visionary and perceptive aesthetics, informed by a finely-tuned color sensibility, with an organizational approach that considers both the minute details and the big picture of any project. The result is work that is clean, colorful, functional, and professional. I am equally at home working independently, as well as part of a team.    References are always available upon request.