Web Developer / Senior Web Developer / Web Architect <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / <span class="hl">Web</span> Architect Web Developer / Senior Web Developer / Web Architect - The MSR Group Omaha, NE • Over ten years experience in web programming. (PHP, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, prototype and CSS).  • Over ten years experience with MySQL.  • Over five years experience with PHP framework Laravel.  • Two years experience in web programming using classic ASP, ASP.NET with C#, JavaScript, Active Reports, SQL and T-SQL.  • One year experience with programming in AS3.  • Work experience with JavaScript frameworks prototype and moo tools.  • Fluent in several programming languages. Ability to identify upcoming trends and willingness to leverage it for efficiency and flexibility.  • Over ten years experience of using sub version like GIT, Tortoise SVN, Ankh SVN and VSS.  • Work experience with Photoshop, Illustrator, and Flash.  • Good analytical problem solving capabilities and strong communication skills.  • Flexible working with diverse teams, interacting with clients and team members. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer / Senior Web Developer / Web Architect The MSR Group November 2011 to Present - Omaha    ? Involved in designing and re-writing the legacy system to more user friendly, generic, secure and easily expandable application.  ? Design and develop new functionalities and fix bugs for existing functionalities.  ? Design database, write queries for reporting tools  ? Performance monitoring system is developed in Laravel framework. The database used is MySQL. In addition to that various API's, JavaScript and Ajax are used to provide more user friendly experience while using the product. Volunteer Nepalese Nebraska Society August 2008 to Present Nepalese Nebraska Society  Update and add new pages to the website using PHP, JavaScript, MySQL and Joomla. Web Application Developer Orion Health Care Technology January 2010 to November 2011 Take customer requirements from the sales and marketing department and convert these business needs into feasible IT solutions.  ? Design and develop new modules for the web application primarily using classic ASP and JavaScript and JavaScript frameworks like Prototype and moo tools, ASP.NET with C#, Jscript.net and SQL.  ? Fix Bugs reported from the customer support department, also test and fix bugs in the new models to ensure the stability of the web application.  ? Design table structures and write SQL queries for the new modules.  ? Design and prepare Reports using Active Reports. Web Developer (intern) University of Nebraska - Omaha May 2009 to December 2009 - Omaha    ? Designed and added new features to the existing web application; also created demo web application for future potential customers.  ? Designed table structure and wrote queries for added features, demos and reports.  ? Application was developed using HTML, PHP, MySQL, AJAX and JavaScript. Web Developer University of Nebraska - Omaha - Omaha, NE May 2008 to December 2009 Developed various websites for the University and other clients (non profit).  ? Worked to facilitate nonprofit organizations with their various technical needs.  ? Worked on various projects that came as a grant to the University. The projects were developed using PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, AS3, Google Map API's for geo-coding, video editing tools like Adobe Premiere Pro, Sorenson Squeeze and web design tools like CS3/CS4 and Photoshop CS3/CS4.    Web Developer (intern): Summer internship  Astro Building Distribute - Omaha.    ? Involved in requirement gathering, requirement analysis and design of the website.  ? Designed user Interface of the website. Focus was to improve user experience.  ? Responsible for database design of the entire website.  ? Designed and developed color selector tool that would allow the user to select different colors on a building.  ? Application was developed using HTML, PHP, MySQL, jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript and Flash CS3 and AS3 Treasurer of Nepalese Student Society University of Nebraska at Omaha - Omaha, NE January 2008 to January 2009 Responsibilities included managing the budget provided by the university and collecting from various shows we organized throughout the year. We helped new Nepali students with services like accommodation and initials necessities. Research Assistant University of Nebraska at Lincoln - Lincoln, NE October 2007 to May 2008 Added new web pages to the existing university web site using HTML, PHP, MySQL, jQuery, AJAX and JavaScript.  ? Worked on implementing Kalman algorithm to define shortest path for the robot to move from one point to another using VB.net and mat lab. Lecturer Nepal Model College January 2007 to July 2007 I taught database management system to undergraduates. Primary focus was History of Database system, Entity Relationship Model, Relational Model, SQL, Integrity and Security, and Relational Database Design. Web Developer Beacon Soft December 2005 to December 2006 Involved in requirement gathering, requirement analysis and design of the website.  ? Responsible for creating web sites for various clients.  ? Websites were primarily developed using HTML, DHTML, PHP and ASP, JavaScript, SQL and MySQL. Education B.E in Computer Engineering The Peter Kiewit Institute August 2007 to December 2009 Kathmandu Engineering College 2001 to 2005 M.S. in Management Information Systems University of Nebraska - Omaha, NE Tribhuwan University - Kathmandu, NP