Lead Web Developer Lead <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Creative Director - Gillespie Group Marketing & Advertising Philadelphia, PA 15 year design and creative career spanning web, multimedia, print and information technology for some of the world's leading brands.   Combines Innovation with practicality and obsessive focus on results. Extremely deadline and budget oriented. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Web Developer Philly Beer Week / Philly Loves Beer - Philadelphia, PA September 2017 to Present • Redesigned website and became a full-time web developer upon presentation.  • Created a front-end system for venues to submit events to the calendar in real-time.  • Implemented a “Beer Lover” database system that accumulated > 700 signups in the since its launch. Beer Lovers were given the ability to create a custom beer-week calendar with events added to “Wishlist”.  • View site at phillylovesbeer.org Creative Director Gillespie Group Marketing & Advertising - Wallingford, PA September 2014 to Present • Responsible for the design, art direction, and management of all clients' printing and website needs. Managed all aspects of creative leadership, idea generation, copywriting, planning, brand development, video production for all brand activities.  • Cultivated an environment of support and mentoring; directed employees with all areas of design, SEO and information technology.  • Created and maintained 30+ websites using Wordpress.  • Developed, maintained and updated all corporate communications.  • View my portfolio at matthewhoppe.com. Print & Web Designer / Web Code Developer (Contract) Voya Financial - West Chester, PA March 2014 to August 2014 • Contracted as member of the 6-month ING to Voya rebranding team.  • Rebrand, redesign and update all existing print and digital marketing collateral to reflect the new brand guidelines.  • HTML/CSS microsites and emails. Flyers, posters, charts, and brochures using Creative Suite in Mac and PC platforms.   • Create, modify and deliver PDFs via FTP. Items checked for prepress and print. Graphic Designer/Production Artist Quadriga Art - Pennsauken, NJ August 2007 to March 2014 • Creative production of direct mail and package design within brand standards, to meet campaign and client needs.  • Project management and coordination of schedules for direct mail art production with Hong Kong and Mexico printing facilities.   • Largest clients include: Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, American Cancer Society, and the American Red Cross. Education Bachelor of Creative Arts in Graphic Design Millersville University - Philadelphia, PA 1998 to 2003 Skills Creative Suite (10+ years), Wordpress (8 years), Google Docs (5 years), Final Cut Pro (8 years), Advertising (10+ years), Google Analytics (4 years), Google Adwords (4 years), SEO (4 years), Photography (7 years), Graphic Design (10+ years), Layout (10+ years), Information Technology (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Adobe, Branding, Indesign, Photoshop, Typography, Marketing, Illustrator, After Effects Links http://matthewhoppe.com Additional Information Skills  • Advertising and marketing expertise  • Commercial Photography  • Information technology support and networking  • Deadline sensitivity and time management