Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> WordPress Developer, WordPress Theme Development, Plugin Development Denver, CO I am a LAMP stack web designer and developer with almost fifteen years of experience. I am extremely experienced in both front-end and back-end WordPress development and UI/UX web design. My primary tools are PHP, HTML, SASS, jQuery, Bootstrap, and Roots/Sage.    I have built everything from personal websites to high-profile business websites, but I find my greatest value for clients and employers is my ability to single-handedly take on a project from the concept stage to completion. This is particularly valuable for early stage/pre-funding startups, where building a full development team can often be difficult given budgetary constraints. My greatest value is that I’m a generalist with an extremely broad set of skills and experiences; I’ve done everything for clients from brand concepts, wireframing, analytics/tag manager, a/b testing and bringing ideas into fully functioning web applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Mastin Labs - Seattle, WA February 2019 to Present Maintenance, feature additions and management. Freelance Web Developer Jet Shade Systems - Dallas, TX July 2018 to Present Currently in development. Development of Dallas Texas Japanese shade systems for Colorado team.  https://staging.jetofcolorado.com/ Freelance Web Developer White's Electronics - Sweet Home, OR April 2018 to Present Currently in development. Redevelopment of White's Electronics US site.  http://we.staginghi.com/ Freelance Web Developer Nevada Community Management - Las Vegas, NV March 2018 to Present Redevelopment of Las Vegas based HOA management company website.  http://nevcm.com Freelance Web Developer TheBookGuyz.com - Winter Haven, FL May 2017 to Present Currently in development. Book and video game sales website built on the CodeIgnitor framework that works with the Amazon API to buy used books from customers. www.thebookguyz.com Freelance Web Developer DriveTime Keys - Kanosh, UT July 2016 to Present Custom theme development. WooCommerce integration with custom car filtering plugin for key searches. UI design and Bootstrap responsive layout. Currently in development.  https://www.drivetimekeys.com Freelance Web Developer Electronic Fluorocarbons, LLC. - Hopkinton, MA February 2016 to Present Developed and maintained WooCommerce based custom theme built on the Roots stack. Freelance Web Developer ASTI Corp - Campbell, CA January 2016 to Present Develop and maintain several sites for ASTI Corp including:  www.asticorp.com  www.soundofsleep.com  www.lectrofan.com Freelance Lead Web Developer MixtBox.com - Las Vegas, NV December 2015 to Present Working as the sole developer for this Las Vegas Boutique Clothing Store turned subscription box start-up. I am currently in the process of developing a subscription box type service similar to Wantable.com, where the user can order a box or subscribe, receive the items and return what they don’t want. Duties include wireframe design, UI/UX, front-end design, WordPress back-end development and WooCommerce development and customization.    Launched May 1st.  http://www.mixtbox.com Freelance Web Developer GoFish Costa Rica - Tamarindo, PR June 2015 to Present Developed and maintained website for Costa Rica fishing charter company. Built on the Roots stack. Freelance Lead Web Developer & Marketer House Seats, LLC. - Las Vegas, NV January 2013 to Present Redeveloped the UI/UX on a previously established PHP platform for Las Vegas entertainment company, House Seats (http://houseseats.com). Duties include working closely with CEO and marketing department to maintain their application; introduce new ideas; and create marketing campaigns with Constant Contact and different social media platforms. Freelance Lead Web Developer Corner Your Market, LLC. - Las Vegas, NV April 2012 to Present Responsibilities  Sole developer for many projects provided by Corner Your Market, a Las Vegas digital marketing agency. Duties include developing several WordPress sites from concept through completion. Following is a short list of projects I have completed.     Accomplishments  http://epicureantravel.com  http://dirtyblondecocktails.com  http://cowengroup.com Freelancer, Owner, Project Manager, Lead Web Developer Appleton, WI January 2010 to Present Other projects I have built in the past:    Accomplishments  http://creativenationcopy.com  http://liveatthemusichall.com  http://www.wdtablesystems.com  http://smartyreset.com  http://jetoftexas.com Freelance Web Developer Cerity - Denver, CO August 2018 to February 2019 WordPress front-end development based on the Roots (roots.io) stack. Backend development with custom post types and advanced custom fields.  http://staging-cerity.kinsta.com Freelance Web Developer Backyard Bar Austin - Austin, TX November 2017 to December 2017 Development of Austin Texas Bar & Grill.  https://backyardbaraustin.com Freelance Lead Web Developer Smart.Care - Las Vegas, NV March 2015 to September 2016 Built, rebuild and maintain the WordPress site for Las Vegas start-up, SmartCare (http://smartcare.com). Duties include working closely with the SmartCare creative team translating wireframes into a working platform with responsive design; working with the marketing department to integrate Google Analytics/Tag Manager; create and a/b test Unbounce landing pages for Google Adwords; implement Drip to capture leads; plus many other aspects that correspond in nature to these tasks. Junior Front End Web Designer / Graphic Designer BuyCostumes.com - New Berlin, WI January 2007 to November 2009 Responsibilities  Design and implement landing pages for marketing campaigns, design and create flash animated creative for site, create Commision Junction banner ads, design logos and the yearly print catalog. Front-End Web Designer / Graphic Designer J&J Electronics - Appleton, WI Responsibilities  Front-end designer working closely with Cold Fusion back-end developer to design and develop several websites for small business. Duties also included various print media such as business cards, brochures, postcards, etc. Education B.S. in Web Design and Development Al Collins - Tempe, AZ 2002 to 2004 A.S. in Graphic Design Al Collins - Tempe, AZ 2000 to 2002 Skills Vagrant, Virtual Box, Varying Vagrant Vagrants, WordPress, Roots/Sage, Bootstrap, Media Queries, NPM, Bower, Gulp, WebPack, Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text 3, Photoshop/Illustrator/Creative Suite, Creative Cloud with TypeKit, HTML5, SASS, Javascript, jQuery, and more. (5 years), Hardware: 15” MacBook Pro (2015 Retina), 28” Dell 4k display, 24” ViewSonic 1080p display, iPad 2, iPhone 6s Plus, iPod Touch, Galaxy S3. (5 years), Javascript, Wordpress, PHP, HTML, HTML5, Front End, Jquery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jbusnelli/