Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - MICROTECH Waltham, MA • 11 years of extensive work experience in Design & Development using HTML, CSS, ASP.NET, AJAX, JavaScript and SQL server.  • 11years' Experience in configuring web and application servers.  • 8 years' experience in maintaining and supporting CMS such as Ektron, ColdFusion CMS, Word Press.  • 8 years' experience in ASP.NET backend C#.  • Strong Experience in developing web based applications using SharePoint Designer 2013/2010 and .Net, MVC Razor technologies.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, analysis, design and development on Microsoft Technology Stack.  • Excellent troubleshooting & problem solving skills with Client-Server Applications &Web Applications.  • Experienced in developing system using different software development methodologies like Agile (Scrum), TDD, and Waterfall model.  • Experience in handling multiple projects, tough deadlines, driving development process, mentoring team members and training Business users.  • Hands on experience with SharePoint Migration from SharePoint 2010 to SharePoint 2013.  • Good experience in configuring SharePoint Enterprise features like BCS, Chat web parts, search, Business Intelligence and Performance Point Services  • Sound experience in Database Design and Database Programming (Stored procedures, Triggers-SQL,PL/SQL) using SQL Server 2012/2008 ,T-SQL and Oracle 9i/10g/11.  • Hands on experience in reports development using SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS) and Crystal Reports and experience in developing integration packages using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS).  • Good Experience in Internet Information Server (IIS).  • Extensively involved in all the phases of Testing like Boundary Testing, Unit Testing, Functional Testing, Non-Functional Testing, Module Testing, Alpha Testing, Beta Testing, user acceptance, integration testing and Usability Testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer MICROTECH - Westerly, RI July 2015 to Present • Involved to design and develop web based application using ASP .Net 4.5, MVC,HTML, CSS, and SQl server 2012.  • Developed landing page and layout using HTML5, CSS3 AMP Script, JavaScript, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Involved to develop Mobile portal Interface using Asp.net, HTML, HTML5, Css3, Bootstrap, Responsive design Ajax, etc.  • Involved to customize existing template using HTML5, Bootstrap 3.  • Supported multiple internal websites and web application per business requirement.  • Provided the support on home based content management system.  • Worked on cloud base web services using Microsoft Azure  • Created and managed Custom Site Definitions, Site Templates, Site Columns, Document & Picture Libraries, Lists, List Views, User Alerts, RSS News, Links, Events and Content Type for various departments.  • Implemented and configured SharePoint 2013 Intranet for document management and collaboration  • Involved in enhancement of existing applications  • Involved in support and maintenance of multiple projects using, .Net 2.0, 3.5.4.0.4.5, C# MVC, html, CSS, JavaScript, Involve to design and develop web-based application using ASP .Net 4.5, HTML, CSS, T-SQL and sql server 2005, 2008, 2012.  • Created tables, query, and Stored Procedures per the requirement of projects.  • Provided application support on call and client site.  • Involved in all stages of the testing before moving to Production.  • Worked on SOAP and Restful Web Services  • Set up and customized SharePoint Lists, created Custom Views, Site Definitions and managed permissions at different levels.  • Worked on creating Master Pages, Page layouts using SharePoint 2013, and customize them using SharePoint Designer and CSS scripting language.  • Provide ongoing support on SharePoint 2013 as per business need.  • Involved in configuring web and application servers. Web Developer RHODE ISLAND HOUSING - Providence, RI September 2013 to July 2015 • Involved in new web based development from start to end using3 tier architecture [business layer, data layer and presentation layer] in ASP.Net4.5, C#,Sql server 2008, Html, CSS, Ajax, Java script.  • Developed landing page and layout using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap .and jQuery.  • Collaborated with DBA, managers and vendors to ensure achievement of all business objectives.  • Applied the Google analytics to multiple sites.  • Worked on Microsoft TFS.  • Developed new smart form and creating new template using HTML, CSS, XMl in EKTRON CMS work area and Vs 2010.  • Created Page Layouts in SharePoint Designer and integrated into SharePoint Publishing Portal.  • Developed SQL Server Script for Stored Procedures using Involve to design and develop web-based application using ASP .Net 4.5, HTML, CSS, T-SQL and sql server 2005 and 2008.  • Worked on cloud based web services using Microsoft Azure  • Involved in developing landing page with video, audio for marketing and communication department. Advertising.  • Provided application support on call and client site.  • Involved in web deploy and web publishing,  • Developed new Landing page using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and maintained exiting landing pages' foe the marketing and communication department per business require.  • Supported home based and vendor applications using .Net 2.0, 3.5 and 4.0., Html, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript and Sql server 2008.  • Supported and maintained main external BX site using ColdFusion CMS and HTML.  • Involved in upgrading all web application from IIS 6, 7 to IIS 8.  • Configured web and application servers.  • Developed, Maintained and supported crystal reports using Crystal report XI. Web Developer & Support SFVA SANFRANCISCO CA March 2013 to September 2013 • Developed and supported the website for Volleyball team.  • Developed landing page and layout using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap .and jQuery.  • Created Master web page using Html5, CSS3, Java script, Ajax. JQuery  • Developed web application based on .NET framework 4.5.and C#.  • Developed SQL Server Script for Stored Procedures.  • Provided ongoing support for the business.  • Provided application support on call. Web Developer FIDELITY BOSTON MA - Boston, MA July 2012 to December 2012 • Managed multiple projects at a time using Dream Weaver, HTML, CSS AMP Script and Data Extensions.  • Created and maintained "Data Extensions "using Exact Target, an SaaS on-demand software for permission-based email marketing, mobile marketing and social media marketing.  • Created and maintained "Data Extensions "using ET prod and test Application.  • Worked with Interactions / Programs using ET Application.  • Created web email using AMP script and Html, CSS using ET Application and W3C markup.  • Created Viewpoints and components using ET Prod Application.  • Created and maintained various web emails using ET prod and test application.  • Created reports using ET test application.  • Documented updates of each application. UI & .NET Developer, Support and Analyst WORLD WEBS WORK - Coventry, RI October 2011 to June 2012 • Designed Master layout using HTML and CSS.  • Developed three tire application using 3 tier architecture and Object Oriented development principles.  • Involved in developing patient portfolio by Creating various modules with full security such test results, medications and a history of appointments with latest technology to keep all information private.  • Created new applications and re-deigned e-commerce web sites.  • Involved in development various modules such purchase, sales, payment and security modules for e-commerce web sites.  • Created designs using Asp.Net 4.0, C#, HTML, CSS, Java script, JQuery, Ajax control and java script.  • Followed the Water fall method standards for the SDLC development.  • Developed SQL Server Script for Stored Procedures.  • Worked on SOAP and Restful Web Services Web Technology Developer IBM - Endicott, NY May 2011 to September 2011 • Managed and maintained all web based and window-based company's existing applications using HTML, CSS, Net2.0, 3.5.4.0,SQL, Pl/SQL, and Oracle.  • Maintained and supported vendor application using HTML, CSS W3C markup.  • Resolved ticket per user requirement using HTML, CSS, SQL, Pl/SQL, and Oracle.  • Involved in design changes working with solution architects as per the business changes.  • Supported each application on call and time such as IVR applications etc.  • Demonstrated client service focus and flexibility in supporting requests.  • Supported multiple web application using CMS & VS 4.0.  • Maintained existing and designed new crystal report using Crystal Report XI. Web Application Developer A.T.CROSS - Lincoln, RI December 2010 to May 2011 • Developed Master layout using ASp.Net 4.0, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS.  • Developed web application based with the .NET framework and C#.  • Developed web based application with the .NET framework using Object Oriented development principles.  • Followed Water fall method standards for the SDLC development.  • Worked on Teleric tools as per the application requirement.  • Developed SQL Server Script for Stored Procedures.  • Developed and updated the technical specification documents after the developments.  • Validated web application using Java Script, JQuery and Asp.Net Validation Controls. UI Developer, Support and Analyst AMI-INFOTECH-GUJARAT - GUJARAT, IN January 2007 to April 2010 • Involved in developing and designing the web-based school information management system for different clients.  • Involved in developing CMS for school and health management web based systems.  • Assisted in developing various window and web -based modules of Health Care Management System.  • Designed Master layout using HTML and CSS.  • Involved in developing window and web based the Application using VB 6.0,ASP.NET, Vb.Net, HTML, , Ajax control JQuery and JavaScript.  • Designed the database structure using MS Access. SQL Server 2005.  • Developed Stored Procedures for Data Transaction.  • Validated web applications using Java Script and Asp.Net Validation Controls.  • Utilized Dataset, Data Grid and List view Controls to display data in a customized format.  • Tested web applications using various testing method.  • Followed the Agile and Water fall method standards for the SDLC development.    Environments:  SQL Server 2000,2005,2008, 2012, ASP.Net 2.0, .3.5,4.0 , 4.5,VB 6,Html, Css, Java script .Crystal Reports, Windows 98,Windows 2000, Windows 7 Education MASTER OF COMPUTER APPLICATIONS in COMPUTER APPLICATIONS IGNOU - Delhi, Delhi Skills CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), jQuery. (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQl (10+ years), Javascript, Wordpress, C#, Angular Additional Information SKILLS    Hardware  Windows based Desktops , Pentium PC-AT, All Software Installation, All type of Back up Storage, Understanding and troubleshooting a problem, Problem solving ability    Operating Systems MS-DOS, MS- WIN 95/98/2000/XP/Vista, Windows 7, Windows 2003  Languages  Microsoft.Net, ASP.Net 4.6, VB.net, C#, VB-6, MS-Access, SQL, HTML, HTML5,Bootstrap,JavaScript, CSS, CSS3, Telerik Rad Tools CSS, Ajax Control. Toolkits    Documentation Tools MS Office 97/2000/2003/2007/2010  Technologies Adobe Dreamweaver, Notepad++, ASP.NET 2.0, 3.5 4.0, 4.5, MVC 6 4.6,HTML4.0, HTML 5.0, XML,CSS, CSS3 NET Framework, API's.  Tools Visual Studio.NET 2003/2005/2008/2010/2012/2017, Crystal reports, SQL server  Scripts JScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Json  Cloud services Microsoft Azure.  Network  Installation, Troubleshooting and Maintenance of various software - Windows Operating System, Office 2003, Antivirus Software, FTP Solution    Reporting Tools Crystal Reports  Web Page Editors Visual Studio.NET, Macromedia Dream weaver, MS FrontPage, Adobe Photoshop.  Web Services REST/SOAP  Databases Systems SQL-SERVER 2000/2005/2008,T-SQL, MS Access  Multimedia Package Razor, Dream Weaver and Adobe Photoshop  System Design Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Maintenance and Documentation.  CMS Word Press, EKTRON, Code fusion, SharePoint, DNN