Senior Email Developer Senior Email <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Email Marketing Campaign Developer Atlanta, GA Portfolio: http://www.responsiveemailcoding.com Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Email Developer Sharecare December 2015 to Present Responsible for coding responsive dynamic email campaign templates for Sharecare and the Dr. Oz Show.    Use Salesforce Marketing Cloud to create dynamic email templates, A/B testing, and launching campaigns.     Test and troubleshoot email campaigns to render properly across all major desktop, mobile and mobile app clients. Email Marketing Campaign Developer GE Capital April 2014 to Present Responsible for coding responsive, static, dynamic and text email campaigns utilizing HTML, CSS,  JavaScript and the Adobe Creative Suite. Optimize client emails for rendering across mobile and web.  Troubleshoot email campaigns across 40+ email clients and devices using Litmus. Work directly with clients and internal account managers in an extremely fast paced environment. Upload and test email  campaigns in Dream and Responsys. Web Designer / Front End Developer InfoMart June 2012 to January 2014 Worked in InfoMart's Marketing department developing web sites, mobile sites and print collateral. Brought on board to re-design, code and launch http://www.backgroundscreening.com Used Adobe Captivate to develop computer based training modules to educate clients on InfoMart's background screening software. Senior Web Designer AT&T February 2009 to June 2012 Responsible for the design/layout and development of professional web sites, banner ads and mobile sites with the objective of meeting the strategic needs of the client. Use Photoshop, HTML/CSS, Dreamweaver,  various content management systems, SEO, DIY platforms and several other applications. Uses tact and professionalism in tandem with an extensive technical knowledge to help resolve problems for multiple  clients simultaneously. Assigned as team mentor for new hires with a focus on mentoring web design and front end programming skills. Acknowledged by management for superior performance in meeting all  deadlines in a high stress, multi-project environment. Uses ethical/white-hat SEO techniques to produce  consistent high rankings related to numerous keywords. Designer/ Developer Hill Marketing Group October 2006 to January 2009 Developed and customized online presence for clients including but not limited to: web sites, banners,  logo design, print design, e-commerce, client branding, HTML mailer design, SEO implementation and management, and project consulting work (both on-site and off-site). Managed daily operations of HMG  including: financial management, operations, managing contract employees, monitoring deadlines, and generating new clients. Email Campaign Developer/Designer Monetizeit March 2003 to October 2006 Conceptualized and designed landing pages, flash banners, print collateral and HTML mailers with an emphasis on internet marketing. Successfully created and managed internet marketing campaigns that  included: rich media advertising, e-mail campaigns, and banner ads. Led a team of designers in the design and execution of internet marketing effectively, within budget, and deadlines. Web Designer Mirant May 2002 to March 2003 Designer for Mirant's interactive department; member of re-launch team for www.mirant .com Responsible for cross browser testing and troubleshooting. Administered Oracle software for external HTML mailers and newsletters. Web Designer/ Developer Abovo Marketing Group February 2000 to April 2002 Projects  Web Design Portfolio  February 2011 to Present Education Bachelor's Unversity of Georgia Skills HTML Email Development Links http://www.responsiveemailcoding.com Additional Information Skills & Expertise  HTML + CSS  HTML emails  Responsive Coding  Dream  Responsys  Web Design  Dreamweaver  SEO  CMS  Graphic Design  Web Development  Email Marketing  Logo Design  Front-end  Photoshop  Advertising  Advanced CSS  User Interface Design  Newsletters  Flash  Web Marketing  jQuery  JavaScript  Online Marketing  Adobe Creative Suite  Website Development  Illustrator  Layout  Graphics  E-commerce  CSS/HTML  Wordpress  User Interface  Content Management  Web Content Management  Flash Animation  Confluence  InDesign  Captivate  Adobe Acrobat  HTML 5  Web Standards  Interaction Design  Information Architecture  ActionScript  Google Analytics  Front-end Development