Senior Application Developer Senior Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Application Developer Alexandria, VA Work Experience Senior Application Developer NTEU - Washington, DC March 2018 to July 2019 Project overview: NTEU is the nation's largest independent union of federal employees, representing 150000 workers in 31 departments and agencies. NTEU has different existing and New projects within the house like Treasury Employees Political Action Committee (TEPAC) online contributing to support those in Congress who protect federal employee and membership, Legislative Conference, Agency files sharing Hub which is secure file sharing across 31 existing Agencies, Congress application, chapter manager applications, Membership Profile and Different Available APIs.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance with Agile Methodology.  • Designed and developed Entity Framework 2.0 Code-First approach with Repository-Pattern based backend and used RESTful and Web API as transaction and communication technology to the client-side.  • Design, build, and maintain efficient, reusable, and reliable code.  • Developed ASP.NET Core Web API based on Different departmental requirements and specifications.  • Worked with advanced concepts of ASP.NET Core MVC such as Models and Providers, Filters used for developing backend technology.  • Implemented authorization, authentication, and extensive exception handling.  • Implemented convention-based CRUD actions like GET, POST, PUT and DELETE.  • Designed and created models, components, modules, and services to apply client-side logic and dependency injection using Angular.  • Implemented Client-side validation using Angular Custom Form Validation with ng-show and ng-hide.  • Developed the front-end of the web application using Angular, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap3/2 and jQuery 5.0/4.1.  • Implemented LINQ Query operations like Grouping, Ordering and Filtering operations to access database for search of routes, drivers and packages.  • Developed various Stored Procedures for the data retrieval from the database and generated different types of reports using SQL Reporting services (SSRS) and DevExpres Reporting services.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET Core 2.0, ASP.NET Core WEB API, Entity Framework Core 2.0, Angular, Bootstrap 3.3.7, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, GIT, Visual Studio 2017, SQL Server 2014/2017, SSIS, SSRS, IIS 7.0, Microsoft Visio 2012 , PayPal, Angular, Bootstrap 3.3.7/4.0.0, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, POSTMAN, Git/ Bitbucket ,Mvc5 ,JSON ,GitHub , Source Tree and AppVeyor Continuous Integration. Senior .Net Developer/Application Developer Interstate - Springfield, VA April 2017 to March 2018 Project overview: Interstate Moving | Relocation | Logistics provides national and international moving, storage logistics, and relocation services. So The Company has many new application and legacy software's on places.  My day today task was to develop an interaction Driver dispatch application, Driver Schedule, Planning for driver jobs or resources, trip inspection report, Forklift inspection, Market research and survey application, Local dispatch, other distance services using Google API and Driver Payment calculation per distance, weight and other factors Apps. Since every driver has their own IPAD those application are accessible form their IPAD for the drivers. In the other side the admin people can access those application from their desktop application. They can manage and make changes. Most of Those application are real-time application and integrated with Google Maps APIS and JavaScript framework.  Responsibilities:  • Working closely to the client for requirement gathering and analysis and provided desired solution to client in time limits.  • Analyze system and functional requirements to determine feasibility and develop the case story and prepare documentations.  • Experience in Writing code and debugging skills with ASP.NET, WCF, C#, Web services.  • Involved in implementation of Object Oriented Concepts during the development.  • Developing the application using MVC, Entity Data Model and RESTful and WCF services.  • Responsible for UI design and creating contracts and classes in WCF for different modules in the application.  • Implemented UI using MVC 5.2.3, HTML 5, HTML5, XML, CSS3, CSS LESS, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX and Web Form Controls to create responsive web pages for mobile devices and desktop application.  • Using jQuery and JavaScript for implementing client-side validations at Controller level.  • Using jQuery JSON for dynamic User Interface, retrieval and posting of data.  • Used Team Foundation Server 2015, Git, SVN for Source Code Control, project related document sharing and team collaboration.  • Implemented .Net Security features of Authentication and Authorization using .Net Membership.  • Implemented .Net classes for Business Logic Layer using C#.  • Coding and Tuning the queries, Stored procedures and functions, Triggers using PL/SQL  • Implemented Data Access Layer using Entity Framework to connect, retrieve and update the data from SQL server.  • Creating Queries and joins on multiple tables, Functions and Triggers using LINQ in SQL 2008 for inserting/updating/ deleting the data into the relational tables.  • Developing various Stored Procedures for the data retrieval from the database and generating different types of reports.  • Conducted daily stand-up SCRUM meetings with the team and team lead, scheduling technical design and Walkthroughs with the team, coordinating with business and QA on UAT testing, database and network team for deployments.  • Actively involved in production deployments, providing on call support, assisting QA team with rollout testing.  • Working closely with the team on new development, defect fixing and major enhancements.  • Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET MVC Framework (C#, entity frame work).  • Implementation of Google map API and other third-party Google map Products  Expertise in developing applications using Microsoft technologies such as .NET Framework 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, Web applications using ASP.NET, and distributed applications using WCF, XML Web Services and Messaging system.  • Involve in object-oriented analysis and design n using UML Unified Modeling Language such as use case, activity, sequence, class and component diagrams using Visio.  • Good experience with Telerik, Devextreme and devexpress and other third-party tools.  • Good experience with mobile application implementation.  Environment: Visual Studio enterprise 2015/2017, Visual Studio Online, SQL Server 2014, Git, source tree, TFS, MVC.5.0, WCF, WebAPI, Razor, jQuery, Angular 2.0, Angular 4.0, Ajax, .NET Framework 4.0, 4.5,4.6.1, bootstrap, Entity Framework 6.0, Moq 4.2.1, LINQ, N Inject, T4MVC , Sandbox , knockout, Agile - SCRUM, Signal R, and other third party web services, devexpress, Devextreme, Google API .Net Developer Sevatec Inc - Washington, DC January 2016 to April 2017 Project Overview: eNEPA Project Collaboration Tool is a Role based tool that supports transportation agencies efforts to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act for transportation projects. eNEPA supports State and Federal agencies' opportunities for real-time collaboration on environmental reviews.  It has two main functions in its application to the NEPA/Project Development Process.  ? Document Management: - Collaborating on documents, uploading standard electronic formats including PDF, JPEG, Excel spreadsheets, incorporating planning information to meet planning and environmental linkage criteria for incorporation into NEPA.  ? Interagency Collaboration: - Conducting concurrent agency reviews, establishing action due dates and accepting comments/documents, Tracking edits through uploads and online commenting.  Responsibilities:  • Involved from the requirements Gathered from the client, analysis, design, development and testing stages of the Project.  • Analyze system and functional requirements to determine feasibility.  • Broke stories down into logical tasks and identified technical requirements for each task.  • Designed, developed, maintained Application using C#, WCF, MVC 5, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, bootstrap, HTML, CSS 3.  • Worked with customer's development team to understand and define common data and components.  • Develop complex MVC Controller, View, Models and Helper methods linked to backend database  • Reprogrammed and redesigned an existing project to use ASP.NET MVC 5, CSS 3, and bootstrap and HTML5 elements.  • Used Microsoft Enterprise Library as it is a set of tools and programming libraries for the .NET Framework.  • Conducted daily stand-up SCRUM meetings with the team and team lead, scheduling technical design and Walkthroughs with the team, coordinating with business and QA on UAT testing, database and network team for deployments.  • Actively involved in production deployments, providing on call support, assisting QA team with rollout testing.  • Working closely with the team on new development, defect fixing and major enhancements.  • Developed validations using jQuery and JQuery plugin.  • Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET MVC Framework (C#, entity frame work).  • Implementation of client-side validations using J Query and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level  • Worked with Entity Framework, connected to relational data by writing LINQ to SQL queries Designed and coded application components in an agile environment utilizing a test-driven development approach Created and maintained project tasks and schedules.  Environment: Visual Studio enterprise 2015, SQL Server 2014, TFS, MVC.5.0, Razor, jQuery, Ajax, .NET Framework 4.0, 4.5, Microsoft .NET Framework 4.6.1, jQuery, bootstrap 3.0, Entity Framework 6.0, LINQ, N Inject, T4MVC, data Table, Agile - SCRUM, tinymce, Reflection, Telerik, web services, Web API .Net Developer ICF International consulting August 2015 to January 2016 Project overview: It is more than call center and contact center management, It is more than just case management and customer service software. Thus, project enables Increase agent productivity and improve customer satisfaction with the customer support application, Service that integrated Voice. The target of this application are basically Customer Engagement Center, Case Management Best Practices, and Deliver Support across Multiple Channels and Manage Process with Workflow and Approvals.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, getting sign-off from the business users and prepare system requirements specification for the solution.  ? Conduct requirements gathering, design, development, testing and documentation for various CRM/.Net projects.  ? Develop integrations between CRM and other Microsoft products  ? Resolve technical issues of varying complexity through an in depth understanding of CRM/.Net and engaging appropriate resources.  ? Designed and developed services and Designed and developed .NET web components and user controls using ASP.NET and C#.NET, AJAX MVC5.  ? Work with other specialized staff (operations, database management, and client support staff) on assembly and deployment questions.  ? Used LINQ lambda expressions, extension methods, and query comprehensions to implement query logic over in-memory collections of objects  ? Executed the business logic by using roles and granting permissions on the basis of the role the user logs on as. Only the user who has administrator privileges has the permissions to make any changes to the scheduled walks (i.e. to the database). Thus, secured the application using Role-based Security.  ? Created and consumed Web Services for data retrieval  ? Wrote Stored Procedures, Transactions, Triggers and SQL-Statements to access data from SQL Server  ? Experience with SCRUM methodologies.  ? Involved in Unit Testing and Integration Testing of the system.  ? Appling daily activity with Agile/scrum methodology  Environment: Visual Studio enterprise 2015, Visual Studio Online, SQL Server 2014, Git, source tree, TFS, MVC.5.0, Razor, jQuery, Ajax, .NET Framework 4.0, 4.5, jQuery, bootstrap, Entity Framework 6.0, Moq 4.2.1, LINQ, N Inject, T4MVC, Sandbox, knockout, JqGrid, Agile - SCRUM, SignalR .Net Developer CSIU December 2014 to July 2015 Project overview: CSIU Computer Services was rewriting the current Financial Applications, which were written in Microsoft Visual FoxPro. The Financial Applications were rewritten in a web environment using Microsoft .NET latest technology and third parties. This financial applications (project) was a complete solution to maintain. Worked seamlessly to give maximum flexibility and control over all aspects of financial record keeping and reporting.    Responsibilities:  ? Based on the requirement, use to Analyze and involved in designing and development.  ? Develop the financial application based the technical specification /standard information of the project  ? Participating in complete development processes from developing the model, controller and view of the application, writing stored procedures, functions using SQL server 2008 and implement complex report from different dataset  ? Developed application logic using C#.  ? Writing complex stored producer, function and create a view that has dynamic column headings that is used across RDLC.  ? Participating in scrum meeting with Scrum Coach, Developers, Support Subject Matter Expert(s), Business Analyst(s) and Quality Assurance.  ? Developed complex feature rich client-side, Grids, calendar objects, Menus, Tabs, Dropdown Boxes, Buttons, Breadcrumbs, Searching, paging and reports using the Sencha ExtJS 4.0 JavaScript framework to build dynamic and awesome looking UI.  ? Accomplished the task of creating a combination of a grid report and to download text and csv files into the web application with the requirement to use 3.0 And MVC 4.0.  ? Designed and created the table schema and stored procedures that will be used in Complex BIDS report.  ? Creating reports using SQL Reporting Services (SSRS) for customized and ad-hoc Queries.  ? Experience in writing expressions in SSRS and Expert in fine tuning the reports. Created many Drill through and Drill Down reports using SSRS.  Environment: Visual Studio Ultimate 2010/2013, SQL Server 2008 R2, Team Foundation Services 2010/2013, MVC 3.0, MVC.5.0, Razor, jQuery, Ajax, .NET Framework 4.0, 4.5, jQuery 1.5.1, ExtJS 4.07, Entity Framework 4.0, moq 4.0, BIDS (VS 2008), LINQ, Unit of Work, SQL 2008, SSRS .Net Developer Xerox - Santa Ana, CA February 2013 to September 2014 Project Overview: The Eligibility Service (ES) interface determines eligibility for affordability programs and its ability to initiate an inquiry from the HIX to the ES. During the application data collection process, if the user chooses to apply for affordability programs, the HIX system sends the data collected during the application process to the ES for eligibility determination. Only the ES hosts rules defined by the state to determine if the household is eligible for Modified Adjusted Gross Income (MAGI) Medicaid, Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), Advance Premium Tax Credit (APTC) programs. The ES eligibility determination Web service will be invoked by the HIX system in one of multiple available modes and will return response in an XML format, which will provide details of the eligibility results for the individuals requesting affordable programs. The HIX system will provide the request inquiry Web service that can be invoked by the Eligibility Service to initiate a call from the hix system to request updated eligibility results from the Eligibility Service.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Requirements Analysis for the application development and Production issue fixing  ? Confer with end-users, clients, or management to define business requirements for complex systems and infrastructure development.  ? Developing Nevada Health Link web application using .Net Framework 4.5, 4.0 C#, ASP.NET, MVC 4.0, and HTML5, CSS Less.  ? Create and unit test intricate client-side interactions with jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Develop complex MVC Controller, View, Models and Helper methods linked to backend database.  ? Requirements Analysis, Development, Testing and documentation throughout project Development Cycle.  ? Review new and existing systems design projects and procurement or outsourcing plans for compliance with standards and architectural plans.  ? Designing Controllers and Views for the Web interface.  ? Designing Models, Views and Controllers and implementing them using the ASP.NET MVC 4.0 Framework.  ? Created views and partial views using JSON health Insurance exchange.  ? Strong understanding of Asp.Net MVC Framework and Subversion Experience working with Third Party API's  ? Strong understanding of Design Patterns and Object-Oriented Programming  ? Handled client request in JavaScript and event handling using jQuery for different user interfaces and applied CSS Less  ? Strong front end development skills (JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, CSS) User experience and performance.  ? Used ADO.Net Entity framework for objects/relational mapping framework that enable to work with relational data s domain specific objects in addition to this using the entity framework issue queries using LINQ the retrieve and manipulate data as strongly typed objects.  ? Responsible for writing the code for business layer, middle tier and database layer which involves building request/response message to different layers and implemented the business functionality through ASP.NET 4.0 C#.  ? Experience in creating and consumed WCF services.  ? Developing WCF services using Operation, Data and Message contracts and experience creating end points.  ? Responsible for creating the tables, SQL scripts using SQL Server 2012.  ? Responsible for writing Data Access Layer using LINQ.  ? Experience with SCRUM methodologies.  ? Involved in Unit Testing and Integration Testing of the system.  ? Appling daily activity with Agile/scrum methodology.  Environment: C#, .NET 4.5, WCF, Web services, MS SQL Server, LINQ, MVC4.0, Razor, REST, Entity frame work, Team Foundation, Visual Studio 2012, JavaScript, jQuery, knockout, CSS Less, AJAX, HTML5, WIF, WF, MVVM Web Developer Cyber Soft Plc - Addis Ababa, ET July 2007 to November 2012 Environment: Windows 2008  Technologies Used: ASP.NET, MySQL, CSS, JavaScript, HTML.  Roles and Responsibilities: Design, Development & Implementation. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering Institute of Technology April 2003 to 2007 Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, C++, Design patterns, Git, Html, Javascript, .net core, .net framework 3.0, Wcf, Svn, Vb.net, Visio, Xml, Ajax, Asp, Css, Dhtml Additional Information Technical Skills:  Microsoft Technologies  .NET Framework 3.0/3.5/4.0,4.5, 4.6.1, and .NET Core, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.Net, AJAX, Web Services, WCF, LINQ, jQuery REST Web Service, MVVM, SignalR, Web API, Google API    Design Patterns MVC, MVVM, Repository, Singleton, Dependency Injection, IOC  Languages C#, C, C++, VB.net, C#, Java  Web Technologies  ASP.NET, ASP, HTML, DHTML, XML, jQuery, JavaScript, CSS, CSS Less AJAX, MVC, Sencha ExtJS 4.0, Angular 2.0, Angular , SignalR, bootstraps    Databases MS-SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, 2014,2017, oracle  IDE Visual Studio 2005/2008/2010/2012/ 2015,2017  Version Control tools TFS 2010/2013/2015/2017, Visual Studio Team Services (Agile, Git, Continuous integration), SVN  Report Tools SSRS, SSIS, crystal reports  Modeling Tools MS Visio 2010, 2013, 2016  Operating System Windows 7/XP/2000, Windows Server 2003/2008/window 7 and window 10  Unit Test tool Nunit, moq 4.0  Methodologies Agile Scrum, Waterfall, RAD Model and Test-Driven