Web Developer (Freelance Contract) <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Freelance Contract) Web Developer Salt Lake City, UT Work Experience Web Developer (Freelance Contract) City Creek Media - Salt Lake City, UT March 2019 to Present Worked as a consultant on several websites developed using Wordpress.  ? Updated, maintained Wordpress themes to meet customer needs.  ? Used PHP and CSS to make necessary modifications and customize themes.  ? Integrated Amazon Associates accounts into website to drive traffic to amazon and produce referral income for clients. Web Developer (Freelance Contract) Ragproper - Salt Lake City, UT August 2017 to Present Worked as the primary web developer on team with entrepreneurs and creative professionals.  ? Used JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and jquery to design and develop  pre-marketing website for future kickstarter campaign.  ? Used page speed tools to ensure consistency with SEO best practices.  ? Used facebook and instagram add services to drive traffic to the website.  ? Utilized Lucky Orange, and Google Analytics conversion funnels to gauge  consumer interest in product and modify website appearance and language.  ? Dramatically increased signup conversion rates by leveraging data gained  from Lucky Orange and Google Analytics.  ? Integrated MailChimp as mailing list hosting.  ? Kickstarter ended bringing in $166,867 during campaign.  ? Currently setting up permanent eCommerce website with Shopify. Automotive Technician Nate Wade Subaru - Salt Lake City, UT January 2017 to Present Performed repairs and maintenance on all Subarus makes and Models.  ? Focused on Advanced troubleshooting and fault tracing.  ? Excelled above peers in Advanced Electrical and Fuel and Emissions  diagnostics.  ? Quickly became the goto technician for advice and instruction on difficult  issues.  ? Achieved Subaru Specialist Certification in less than a year of employment. Freelance Web Developer Salt Lake City, UT May 2015 to Present Took on small contracts to add features to existing websites.  ? Added functionality to existing web app using Meteor.js, MongoDB, AngularJS  and node.js. Automotive Technician Stockton 12 Honda - Sandy, UT September 2002 to December 2016 Diagnosed all customer related concerns with all manufacturers makes and models.  ? Mentored and apprenticed entry-level technicians that evolved into productive members of our team.  ? Worked in a team environment to get work completed within required time  frames.  ? Effectively communicated progress to Management.  ? Communicated with customers daily over concerns & repairs for their vehicle.  ? Developed troubleshooting techniques that became standards in our shop.  ? Worked with management to improve efficiency on several service  procedures we performed regularly. Education Associate in Computer Science Salt Lake Community College Present Certificate of Proficiency in Computer Science Fundamentals Salt Lake Community College - Salt Lake City, UT 2018 to 2019 Certificate of Proficiency in Web Development Salt Lake Community College - Salt Lake City, UT 2019 Web Development DevMountain Code School - Salt Lake City, UT 2016 High school or equivalent Bingham High School - South Jordan, UT Skills Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Json, Angularjs, Front End, Jquery, Wordpress, PHP, HTML5 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonscoville