Software Engineer Software Engineer Net Web Developer Las Vegas, NV ASP.NET Developer with 10 years of experience working with website applications for members. Familiar with front and back end with various languages. Knowledge of SDLC and build process. Possess a Bachelors of Science in Information Technologies. Work Experience Software Engineer Arcata Associates - Las Vegas, NV January 2019 to Present Working on .Net windows apps using Visual Studio, C#, SQL, and even Access. Web Developer United Aqua Group - Las Vegas, NV May 2018 to June 2018 Made updates to code ASP.NET C#. Organized and set up version control. Fixed broken links. Replaced images. Net Web Developer Diamond Resorts International November 2012 to February 2018 Upon returning to Diamond, the site had been redone in MVC so I my .NET development with that and C#. I also learned more about the build process to become the backup Web Build-master, doing daily builds with TFS to our testing environments where I might have to set up IIS. I was also exposed to QC to work with the QA department. Net Web Developer Tripres.com October 2010 to October 2012 Just before leaving Diamond, we were in the process of switching from VB.NET to C# on the .NET Framework. At TripRes.com, I to learn C#, learned Linq, and became more comfortable with Object Oriented Programming. I also learned some more features of TFS. Net Web Developer Diamond Resorts International August 2004 to October 2010 I started at the Internal IT Help Desk where I would answer phones, trouble shoot issues, and exposed to Active Directory and Oracle. When I finished school, I was given the opportunity to join the Web team where I started learning ASP, VB.NET, MS SQL server, Visual Studio and TFS. I would write stored procedures and dts packages as needed along with code for the web site. (Allen Temp) - PC Tech UNLV March 2004 to August 2004 While finishing school and switching careers, I was looking for any job in the IT industry just to get my foot in the door. Here, I was part of a team that would take delivery of computers, install needed software, and upgrade RAM and hard drives of older machines after creating back up images. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology University of Phoenix 2005 College of Southern Nevada - Las Vegas, NV Skills ORACLE (6 years), SQL (6 years), IIS (5 years), INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES (5 years), IOS (Less than 1 year), ASP Additional Information javascript, jQuery. TFS, IIS, SQL, Mac OS, exposed to iOS and Xcode, Oracle