Web Manager / Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Manager / <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Manager / Developer - Santanna Energy Services Austin, TX I have experience in IT, Web development, Web Design, and Server administration, in LAMP and Windows environments. As a web developer I have maintained corporate websites from start to finish. I have experience in, SEO, Marketing Platforms, Lead Generation, Graphic Design, Web Design, Web Development, server administration and network technologies with a focus on front end web development and responsive design.     Technologies:    Experience Level:  Advanced: WordPress, Drupal, Adobe Creative Suite, HTML5, PHP, JavaScript, IIS, LAMP, MAMP, WAMP, WPEngine, RedHat, Ubuntu, MYSQL, CSS Grids, SASS and LESS, Media Queries, Twitter Bootstrap, XML.  Moderate: REST,SOAP, JSON, swagger, Google API’s, AWS, amazon s3, Ajax, twig, jQuery, KeyCDN, CloudFront CDN, bitbucket, Git , GitHub, Google Anlytics, Google AdWords, Google Tagmanager, KlipFolio, Hubspot. Visual Studio, SQL  Novice: Ember, Firebase, Node.js, React Work Experience Web Manager / Developer Santanna Energy Services - Austin, TX 2018 to Present • Design build, and maintain current and new websites I built in WordPress  • Maintained, and rebuilt santannaenergy.com.  • Build landing pages for marketing  • Maintain SEO and brand management  • Maintain paid search campaigns with google adwords and analytics  • Work with third party vendors for Email campaigns using Adestra  • Meet with Marketing team members on ROI and marketing goals for online Enrollments  • Create UI and UX comps in Photoshop  • Keep up with code versions with Git  • Mange all hosted web clients through, local hosted linux servers.  • Manage MYSQL databases and run queries to extract and display data  • Build a web UI with PHP, JavaScript and JSON, API's to display data housed in swagger. Web Designer / Developer freelance Algebraix - Austin, TX 2018 to 2019 Design build, and maintain current and new websites.  ? Maintained, and rebuilt algebrai.io, getalx.com and permission.io.  ? Create UI and UX comps for customer using for prototypes  ? Mange all hosted web clients through WPEngine, other local hosted servers. Web Designer / Developer Lee Tilford Agency - Austin, TX 2017 to 2018 Design build, and maintain current and new clients' websites in WordPress.  ? Maintained, and rebuilt specsonline.com managed over 40k products in woo commerce.  ? Create UI and UX comps for customer using Axure for prototypes  ? Manage time and maintain project scope of work within the client expectations  ? Mange all hosted web clients through WPEngine, other local hosted servers.  ? Consult company on user research, site mapping, wireframing, mockup creation, prototyping, user testing, and final interface design  ? Create custom websites, using PHP, CSS3 HTML5, WordPress, and woo-commerce.  ? Support customer needs and consult in server configuration, troubleshoot and configure Linux, nginx, MySQL, PHP5.6 stack on Ubuntu. Also CentOS and server caching  ? Install PHP7. Apache, and configure PhpMyAdmin on other webservers.  ? Create and build company Apps using PhoneGap, and prebuilt plugins for PhoneGap features with framework7 Android and IOS. Web Designer / Developer Akorbi - Plano, TX 2015 to 2017 Built and created custom company WordPress site in WordPress  ? Manage all and maintained digital marketing task, SEO, SEM, PPC, Emailers, landing pages  ? Manage all web servers, Setup install and configure company webserver, PhpMyAdmin, PHP MySQL, mail, Ubuntu, webmin, ftp  ? Manage web localization applications with memoQ and easyling  ? Create Video for other departments marketing efforts using Adobe Premier  ? Create Company graphics for marketing materials, using Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign  ? Manage, build and send email campaigns for 5 different departments marketing efforts using constant contact  ? Generate Lead Generation, and having leads sent to sales team CRM using HubSpot through the website form submissions Web Designer / Developer Masergy Communications - Plano, TX 2013 to 2015 Manage and consult marketing team with the corporate website and web development projects in Drupal as well marketing campaign ideas for company products and services for digital marketing task, SEO, SEM, PPC, Emailers, landing pages  ? Design UI comps and future website ideas in Photoshop, and then create prototypes for further engagement.  ? Make updates and changes to Drupal and WordPress website content and module updates as well Drupal configuration and builds with views, jQuery, CSS3 and PHP  ? Maintain SEO and web site rakings with search engine and maintain Google AdWords campaigns and also marketing landing pages using Marketo using google analytics and AdWords.  ? Manage development and production websites on Linux (Ubuntu, and RHL) based web servers.  ? Manage and push development website to production once projects are complete using ssh commands. from Amazon Web Services instances (AWS) Web Manager/ Developer View Cast Corporation - Plano, TX 2011 to 2013 Designed and built the corporate company website into a more stable work solution using the Drupal CMS, CSS, PHP, FlashAS3, JavaScript, Ajax, MYSQL and UberCart.  ? Configured apache, on a Linux Red Hat Private hosting environment  ? Maintained 24/7 high volume availability demand using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, PHP, and MySQL  ? I maintained digital marketing task, SEO, SEM, PPC, Emailers, landing pages  ? Maintained CMS core security updates and module updates  ? Source code control experience with subversion.  ? Manage all incoming website requests forms for other company departments and support for all users, driver downloads and product updates and sales.  ? Rebuilt and migrated company sales portal from sharepoint to drupal Web Developer Apptricity Corporation - Irving, TX 2008 to 2010 Developed and built the corporate website into a more stable working website using the DrupalCMS  ? Setup apache and hosting environment with Linux debian. Maintain virtual domains, website user accounts, MySQL databases, and DNS.  ? Design and code company sites with the Drupal CMS using CSS, PHP, JavaScript Internet Manager SCP Pool Corp - Covington, LA 2004 to 2008 Setup apache, mod_perl, php on Linux servers. Maintain virtual domains, user accounts, MySQL  ? Create google analytics reports of adwords, SEO placement  ? Setup and maintained multiple domains using Plesk and webmin.  ? Design and code templates for two migrating CMS, Joomla and Drupal using CSS and PHP, JavaScript, MYSQL, MSSQL, SOAP Web Services and SEO optimization with Google analytics and Ad Words package.  ? Maintained Google AdWords for swimmingpool.com Education A.S. in Multimedia Production The Art Institute of Dallas - Dallas, TX 2002 B.A.S. in Graphic Design Louisiana Tech University - Ruston, LA Links http://www.mattrenfro.com