Sr. Applications Developer Sr. Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Technical Business Analyst Pittsburgh, PA Multifaceted technical career with 16-year track record of innovation and success Work Experience Sr. Applications Developer Automatic Data Processing - Pittsburgh, PA March 2015 to Present Technical Scope: Angular 2-7, D3, HighCharts, amCharts  Execute application architecture and frontend development using Angular 2-7 to develop enterprise-level HRM products. Play role as key SCRUM participant in Agile projects while ensuring completion and testability of user stories. Lead remote Developer team during project implementation phases.  Key Achievements:  * Developed inner-sourced Angular shared component library in compliance with ADP VDL standards.  * Designed charts for senior leaders to communicate vital metrics using charting libraries (D3, HighCharts, amCharts). Lead Web Developer HTH Worldwide - Wayne, PA February 2012 to March 2015 Technical Scope: CF11, .Net, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Oracle 12c, AWS S3  Oversaw the design and implementation the top utilized HTH website application - online claims submission application with ColdBox framework and OOP architecture.  Key Achievements:  * Crafted online claims submission system used by more than 80% of users.  * Generated connections to Amazon Web Services S3 to store and retrieve uploaded documents. Computer Programmer III Astor & Sanders - Washington, DC November 2011 to February 2012 Technical Scope: CF9, HTML, JavaScript, CSS with Oracle 11g  Served on team challenged to redesign and optimize NEG system. Worked closely with Quality Assurance to test release functionality.  Key Achievement:  * Implemented database schema aligned with business logic in collaboration with DBA team. Intranet Developer Time Warner Corp - New York, NY August 2011 to September 2011 Technical Scope: ColdFusion CF9, HTML, JavaScript, CSS with SQL Server 2008  Ensured functional requirements in conjunction with Project Manager.  Key Achievement:  * Enhanced existing auditing ticket tracking system to comply with regulations. Backend Developer AT&T Research & Development - Middletown, NJ February 2011 to August 2011 Technical Scope: ColdFusion CF8 and CF9, HTML, JavaScript, CSS with SQL Server 2008, Fusebox 5  Worked on in-house video management system and video presentation applications.  Key Achievements:  * Utilized Fusebox 5 to design applications with standard architecture.  * Created remote services for Flex integration to Flash Player. Applications Developer New York University School of Law - New York, NY September 2007 to February 2011 Technical Scope: ColdFusion MX7, HTML, JavaScript, CSS  Led development of various projects involving web services, security, and remote authentication integration. Used Java for utility libraries and JSP for website development.  Key Achievements:  * Directed data aggregation from multiple departments for business intelligence reports.  * Spearheaded Business Intelligence initiative to consolidate 3 departments. Web Developer American Express Publishing - New York, NY December 2006 to December 2007 Intranet Applications Programmer Fire Department of New York - Brooklyn, NY February 2006 to December 2006 Web Developer Caterpillar Inc - Peoria, IL May 2005 to December 2005 E-Commerce Web Developer JR Cigar - Whippany, NJ May 2003 to May 2005 JR Cigars, Whippany NY Education Bachelor of Arts in Humanities University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA Certificate in Business Technology New York University - New York, NY Management & Systems in Information Technology New York University - New York, NY Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, COLDFUSION, CSS, FUSEBOX, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2008, ORACLE, SQL, MAC, MAC OS, ANGULAR (4 years), CSS3 (6 years), Scripting, SDLC Links http://linkedin.com/in/amit-parikh-163b901