Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Designer West Palm Beach, FL Portfolio: jamielnelson.com Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Take 5 Media - Boca Raton, FL August 2016 to July 2019 Coded emails, create templates, and dynamic campaigns. Conduct A/B testing and evaluate new email trends to help drive the business forward. Manage segmentation, QA, and list cleansing. Work closely with internal departments and external vendors as necessary in the creation and implementation of email campaigns. Build landing pages and websites using WordPress. Code Specialist Deluxe Rewards - Boca Raton, FL July 2013 to September 2016 Troubleshoot HTML rendering issues across a wide range of popular email clients. Setup of email marketing materials with Email Service Provider. QA and Test all out going emails to ensure accuracy. Work with marketing team to ensure seamless implementation of new feature developments, program enhancements and initiatives. Other ad hoc projects when necessary. Web Designer AMSI February 2013 to July 2013 Design and coded emails for automotive dealerships. Work with content management systems to update and maintenance websites.   Work with Account Executives in finding ways to bring more online traffic and increase online sales. Web Developer / Contractor BrightWave Marketing June 2012 to September 2012 Design and code HTML emails. Worked with campaign managers on emails assignments. Used base camp injunction with campaign managers on assignments. Web Developer / Contractor Deardorff Communications May 2012 to June 2012 Assisted in front-end web development for sprint.com/promo page. Used EditPad to build and update webpage using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Worked with CEO & Art Director in web page development. Used Microsoft SQL Server Management to update promo page database. Used Visual Studio 2012 to update .NET promo pages. E-Commerce Web Developer / Contractor Okabashi February 2012 to March 2012 Redesign and develop the website using an Amazon content management system. Worked on e-mail development, landing pages and other interactive collateral. Web Designer / Contractor Case Mate December 2011 to December 2011 Designed visuals for main site and landing pages.  Work with marketing, designer, development team to improve the usability of customer interactions. Web Designer Get Married Media May 2010 to December 2011 Design and code monthly emails. Front-end developer for website. (CSS, XHTML, and Javascript). Facebook Open Graph Protocol. Designing webpage's and online banners. Manage and update online shop CMS. Web Designer / Contractor Vesdia Corporation March 2009 to September 2009 Worked daily with marketing team in designing and building monthly emails. Website design for CITI Bank, SunTrust and American Airlines loyalty rewards programs. Assisted in front end development. Designed print advertisement & wireframes. Web Designer / Contractor AT&T Yellowpages September 2007 to February 2008 Worked as a designer with a team of consultants and content editors in website development. Designed yellowpages.com banners. Web Designer / Contractor Morehouse School of Medicine November 2006 to January 2007 Provided technical assistant in area of website development. Supported and worked directly with 5 web content producers. Introduced Web 2.0 standards. Conducted an 'Introduction to CSS' class. Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Interactive Media & Web Design The Art Institute of Atlanta July 2004 to December 2008 Skills Web Design, Photoshop, Wordpress, HTML, CSS, Sendgrid, Email Development