Chief Information Officer - IT Manager Chief Information Officer - IT Manager Chief Information Officer - IT Manager Deerfield Beach, FL Strong ability for analyzing situations and highly proficient at problem-solving. Efficient skilled and talented in project management, extremely organized, and attention to detail is superb. Experienced at installing and maintaining servers, configuring software, networks, corporate email, routers, switches, internet connectivity, security cameras, and firewalls. I have boundless energy and enthusiasm for my profession and the people I work for and serve. I always go the extra mile and I take nothing for granted. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Chief Information Officer - IT Manager Reagan Wireless - Deerfield Beach, FL June 2010 to Present Responsible for the development of the corporate websites, web portals and api's. Oversee the email blasts, magazine print ads, posters, billboards, social media. Oversee filming and video editing of all corporate events and product promotions. Responsible for purchasing with 3rd party vendors, making crucial decisions regarding the company's software, hardware, security and disaster recovery plans. I setup and provide onsite technical support for SAP Business One and Microsoft Dynamics Great Plains. Responsible for writing Microsoft SQL queries, views, jobs, and table functions for business analysis and website api’s. Responsible for the configuration and maintaining company servers and workstations on the network, DHCP, Active Directory, DNS, Firewalls, Virtualization and Antivirus protection. Ensure the company passes PCI DSS compliance and certifications, and enforce policy. Set up and maintain Dell servers, raid arrays, install and configure Microsoft Server 2008 R2 and 2012. Setup and maintain software for security cameras building workstation surveillance. Admin for Sonicwall NSA 5600 firewall, write access rules, address objects, NAT policies, network interfaces, subnets and VPN’s. Install SSL Certs on Servers & Security Cameras. Maintain and set up Fedex server and client software. Setup, configure and maintain Avaya IP Office phone systems. On call 7 days a week 24 hours a day. Web Developer - IT Admin JR Dunn Jewelers - Lighthouse Point, FL September 2008 to June 2010 Web development for E-Commerce division. Managed email campaigns and social media.. Support and maintained Avaya IP Office phone system. System admin for e-commerce network and servers. Web Developer - IT Admin SproutLoud Media Networks - Weston, FL July 2006 to September 2008 Web development and graphics for client websites and front end applications. Tech support and administration for Avaya IP Office 500 phone system. Worked on Eclipse IDE with SVN in a SCRUM environment. Web Developer MegaColor Corp - Deerfield Beach, FL January 2005 to November 2005 Responsible for the design and development of websites for MegaColor's print clients. The websites would range from static sites to interactive flash presentations, and shopping cart applications. Coding for shopping carts, gift registries, bulk email programs and CRMs. Managed designers, managed client contracts, deadlines, and department budget. Web Developer Carico International - Fort Lauderdale, FL March 2000 to January 2005 Developed Carico's corporate website and web applications with sales reporting applications. Developed online shopping carts, bridal and gift registries. Designed flash animations and multimedia cd-roms. Web app interfaced with company personnel, distributors and salespeople. Education None in Political Science East Tennessee State University - Johnson City, TN