UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior UI Developer Milpitas, CA • Over 10+ years of extensive experience as Front-End Developer for UI applications & transactional applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2, Angular 4, jQuery, React, AJAX, JSON & XML.  • Experience in working MVC Architecture frameworks such as AngularJS and React JS and Redux.  • Experience working on a modular loader such as RequireJS.  • Expertise in writing vanilla JavaScript with ES5 and ES6 Features  • Extensive knowledge in developing applications in a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, Angular 2, Angular 4, ReactJS and Twitter Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Expertise in coding optimized SQL queries on databases like MySQL and Oracle.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms. Proficiency in Debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Solid work experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Maintenance and Implementation of various web and client-server applications using Node.js.  • Strong knowledge of SASS and LESS.  • Developed Responsive Web designs (RWD) using CSS3 Media Queries and Bootstrap.  • In-Depth knowledge of W3C Standards and protocols.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Safari, Edge, Mozilla Firefox, and Chrome.  • Comprehensive Understanding of DOM Manipulation, Hoisting, Prototype, Closure, Promise, Ajax Call, etc.  • Understanding in accessed and manipulated using the DOM and a scripting language like JavaScript.  • Created custom directives for re-usable components (Multi-filed form elements, background file uploads etc.)  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and Rich User Interfaces.  • Strong perseverance and diligence towards attaining challenging goals and possess good Communication skills and quick learning ability.  • Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Possess strong communication skills for day-to-day interaction with offshore and onshore cross-functional development teams.  • Work closely with business and quality assurance teams to deliver the final product.  • Team player with Excellent interpersonal and skills with intension to work hard environment. Work Experience UI Developer SanDisk - Milpitas, CA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Experience with Angular2/4 in creating components, template syntax, pipes and directives.  • Involved in converting few modules from JavaScript framework Angular 1.3 to 2.0.  • Worked on Angular 2.0 components. Creating a parallel project from the previous with  • different UI  • Design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Created screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Designed CSS based page layouts using bootstrap framework that are uniform on all screens throughout the application for cross-browser compatible.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Angular and JavaScript.  • My most recent UI effort was using jQuery, Bootstrap and Angular JS in a Play framework to render responsive pages  • Was responsible for developing responsive web pages using techniques like Bootstrap and media queries.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases SQL server and AJAX.  • Called REST web services through AngularJS services to get JSON Object and modified the response object to display in UI.  • Developed JQuery methods to support the dynamic nature of the web-site elements like navigation, animation buttons and icons etc.  • Worked with technologies such as jQuery and Ajax to make the website more attractive and user friendly.  • Made use of plugins to make the web pages interesting and easy to use.  • Used MVC architecture, Business Delegate, Session facade, Data Access Object, Value Object and Singleton patterns.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular 2, Angular JS, JSP, XML, jQuery, AJAX, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, SQL, agile, SOAP, PL/SQL, Oracle, Windows. Sr. UI Developer Ameriprise Financial, Inc - New York, NY April 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Transform the website features from jQuery domain to Angular JS domain as the latter is faster and easier to implement.  • Developed Angular JS functionality in the application to provide two-way binding to the system  • Developed single page applications using ng-route module in Angular JS  • Utilized modular structure within the Angular JS and Node.js application in which different functionalities within the application were divided into different modules.  • Familiar with concepts of Directives, Data-Binding and Dependency Injection in Angular JS.  • Used Angular JS Dialogs to create the custom dialogs.  • Used Angular context-menu for custom tool-tip.  • Created AngularJS controllers, services and used AngularJS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for page navigation, web application and form validation  • Experience with GitHub for source code management, GIT for version control, Clear Quest for bug fixing and Grunt, Gulp, npm package manager  Environment:HTML, CSS, jQuery, Adobe Photoshop, Angular JS, JavaScript, XML, Bootstrap, MySQL, Windows 10. Sr.UI Developer Bank of America - Dallas, TX June 2013 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked the System Analyst and the project team to understand the requirements.  • Converted the Photoshop mockups in to written HTML and CSS pages.  • Created a library of visual components using High charts, D3, and jQuery for reporting results.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Applied jQuery scripts for end user screen customization purposes and basic animation.  • Participated in all the stages of SDLC from requirements gathering to deployment of software.  • Created JUnit test cases to cover unit testing for the components.  • Implemented Ajax with jQuery to refresh results from Ajax page  • Involved in writing application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript  • Used GIT for version control and code management.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible on all the major browsers like Safari, Chrome, Firefox and IE.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls.  • Worked closely with business users and developers of team to resolve issues.  • Worked with users to assist them in testing the changes made.  Environment:Java Script, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, DOM, XML, DHTML, XHTML, XSL, SQL Server and Windows 10. UI Developer Atlanta, GA January 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in web designing using React JS, CSS 3, JavaScript, XHTML, HTML5, and extensively used Table-less Designin CSS for positioning.  • Analyzed participated in technical design, business requirements, development and testing of various modules assigned. Wrote vanilla JavaScript in ES5 and ES6.  • Performed risk analysis and predict the impact of fraud, waste and abuse using ReactJS and developed a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Used various features from ReactJS like data binding, routing, custom filters and directives to meet various customized requirements.  • Create responsive web pages using Media Queries.  • Improved existing UI Experience by utilizing the latest features of ReactJS with cross-browser compatibility.  • Used Bootstrap framework to customize the styling per the client requirements.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Reactjs and node.js.  • Used special syntax called JSX to mix HTML with Java Script with the help of React JS.  • Used the http services in ReactJS to make API calls and exchange data in JSON.  • Worked with Bootstrap to implement mobile first approach, created responsive web design.  • Created Responsive Designs (iPad/chrome books/ Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5, CSS3.  • Worked with the UX team regarding designs for HTML5 and CSS3 feature detection.  • General form validation was done using ES6 closures for Widget-app module  • Developed in React, Redux, Web API, SQL, Web Pack to meet story specs.  • Involved in AGILE SCRUM meetings, sprint planning sessions and retrospective meetings during the 2-week sprint cycles.  Environment:HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, jQuery, MVC, DOM, JSON, Node.js, React JS, Redux, JSP, AJAX, RESTFUL, Atom, Web Services, XML, Adobe Flash, Photoshop PLSQL, Oracle, Windows 10. Web Developer Tribune Company - San Antonio, TX April 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed UI of webpages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Responsible for developing CSS3 classes to GUI web page forms and controls.  • Designed and developed internet web applications using JavaScript, CSS3 and jQuery.  • Worked with ASP.NET developers to enhance the functionality of web applications and to integrate front-end code with backend.  • Took initiative to improve one of the application's page by redoing the entire HTML and JavaScript. Made improvements to the page loading time by 20% and eliminated 30% of the elements from the page.  • Used AJAX frameworks like jQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  • Developed HTML prototypes and ready XHTML documents with CSS style sheets.  • Developed web pages with the applications like username, login, password using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax according to the client requirement for online billing.  • Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams.  • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites  • JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers  Environment: HTML4/5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQUERY, JSON, XML. Education Bachelor's Skills Acrobat (Less than 1 year), AJAX. (7 years), BACKBONE (Less than 1 year), bootstrap (5 years), Clear Case (Less than 1 year), CSS (10+ years), CVS (Less than 1 year), DHTML (2 years), Front End (1 year), GIT (5 years), HTML (9 years), HTML5 (4 years), JavaScript (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), JSON (4 years), JSP (3 years), UNIX (2 years), version control (5 years), XML (10+ years), XSL (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:  Language: JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Python, JSP, JSX.  Front End: HTML, DHTML, XHTML, HTML5, XML, JSON, XSL, XSLT, CSS, CSS3 and FlexBuilder2.0/3.0.  Editors: Eclipse, Brackets, Sublime Text, Atom, Webstorm.  Frameworks: Bootstrap, Angular.JS, Backbone.JS, Ext.JS, Node.JS, Angular 2, Angular 4, ReactJS.  Version Control System: SVN, CVS, GIT, Clear Case, Perforce  Desktop Tools: Acrobat Writer, MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Access  Operating System: Windows, Mac OS, UNIX