Full-Stack Development Student Full-Stack Development Student Full-Stack Development Student - Lambda Coding School Fort Collins, CO Professional full-stack web developer and recent Colorado State University MBA graduate. Qualified in web development technologies such as React, Node.js, SQL, JavaScript, and CSS / HTML.    Phone: 970-302-6316  Address: 7321 Gilmore Ave. Fort Collins, CO 80524    Email: Patrick.schwindt14@gmail.com  LinkedIn: linkedin.com/in/patrick-schwindt-059089a3    GitHub: https://github.com/pschwin Work Experience Full-Stack Development Student Lambda Coding School January 2019 to Present • Communicated with peers and team leads to build web applications using web technologies based around React, Redux, and Node.js in Visual Studio Code.  • Wrote RESTful APIs to communicate data to the React front-end. (GET/POST/POST/PUT)  • Practiced Agile methodologies within four different dev. teams throughout the course.  • Successful completion with school endorsement / graduation certificate. Web Developer Beyond Blue Media - Fort Collins, CO January 2018 to November 2018 • Worked together with a team of graphic designers, content creators, and account managers to implement WordPress web applications for small business clients.  • Delegated tasks and coordinated deadlines with a company intern.  • Prioritized features and actively managed web applications for over 40 different clients.  • Effectively communicated technological terms and processes to clients in order to maintain project clarity. IT Audit Intern J.R. Simplot - Boise, ID June 2017 to November 2017 • Assisted in an off-site food plant audit centered around IT processes and controls, human resources, and financial statements.  • Worked together with external auditors from KPMG to gather and analyze auditable documentation.  • Used tools such as Microsoft PowerBI and QlickView to create dashboards and analyze data.  • Assisted in the planning and implementation of internal IT audit projects such as cloud assessments, firewall administration, and third-party access. Web Developer Colorado State University - Fort Collins, CO January 2015 to April 2017 • Worked with a development team and scientists to build the Comet Farm application (cometfarm.nrel.colostate.edu) using ASP.NET and C# with MVC architecture.  • Used Java to de-bug errors on the Daycent Service, which was used to run calculations for the Comet Farm web app.  • Implemented critical thinking and problem-solving skills to analyze pre-existing code and resolve bugs within the Visual Studio IDE  • Used CSS/HTML/jQuery/Pure JavaScript for design implementation.  • Utilized team building and effective communication skills when meeting with project coordinators to determine feasible and efficient project requirements. Business Development Agworld Inc - Windsor, CO January 2015 to April 2017 • Used conventional and relational techniques to sell farm management software and provide practical solutions for farming/ranching operations.  • Worked cross-functionally with team members to strategize how to achieve monthly sales goals and increase profitability.  • Acted in a customer support role to assist customers with any questions or difficulties they had using the software. Education Lambda Coding School January 2019 to Present M.B.A. in Applied Finance Colorado State University 2016 to July 2019 B.S. in Agricultural Business Colorado State University 2009 to 2014 Skills .net, Api, C#, Html, Javascript, Node, React, Nodejs, NET, Java, Jquery Links http://linkedin.com/in/patrick-schwindt-059089a3 Additional Information Key skills  React  Redux  Node.js  JavaScript  SQL / Postgres  pgAdmin  CSS / HTML  C#  .NET  Java  Agile  REST API