Sr. web Sphere Developer Sr. <span class="hl">web</span> Sphere <span class="hl">Developer</span> Atlanta, GA • 12+ years of Experience in Planning, Installing, Configuring, Administering, Tuning and Troubleshooting IBM Web Sphere Application Server (Base & ND), IBM IHS and Apache WebServers.  • Experience in Installation, Configuration, and Administration of IBM web Sphere Application server v8.0/7.0/6.1 on AIX, Solaris, Linux and Windows Platforms.  • Experience in deploying, maintaining and troubleshooting of applications in highly available, load balanced production environments.  • Experienced in Secured Socket Layer (SSL) configuration, creating self-signed certificates, generating certificate requests, Import/Export certificates and creating key databases.  • Implemented Workload Management (WLM) methodology and fail over mechanisms including horizontal and vertical clustering, HTTP server fail over, and Deployment Manager and Node agent fail over.  • Working experience with Websphere Application Server and ODM server/node administration through WAS.  • Working experience with various ODM components - Rule Designer, Decision Server, Decision Center.  • Implemented clustering in WebSphere Application Server 6.1/7.0/8.0 using horizontal and vertical clustering to provide scalable and highly available WebSphere environment.  • Proficient in developing Scripts using Jython, JACL, and ANT to automate WAS administration and deployment tasks such as JVM configuration, J2EE application deployment, ear/war installation, and backups.  • Experience with Continuous Integration tools like Jenkins.  • Experience with Deploy automation tools like Rundeck and Chef.  • Experience in writing scripts to create clusters, deploy applications and restart the servers.  • Expertise in working with logs, trace and messages using tools such as Log Analyzer, Resource Analyzer and Admin Console.  • Good knowledge of WebSphere MQ and involved in configuring MDB listeners, JMS resources, and queues and integrating with the WebSphere Application Server.  • Experience in installing and creating Virtual Portals and assigning user populations.  • Experienced in migrating the applications from WebSphere 6.x to WebSphere 7.0.x.  • Familiarity with network protocols and applications involving TCP/IP, NFS, DFS, SNMP, SMTP, POP, Telnet, Rlogin, SSH, FTP, HTTP, DNS.  • Recent experience includes hands on expertise in Single Sign-On domain using Oracle Access Manager, Oracle WebGate, Tivoli Access Manager, Site Minder, Identity Management and LDAP.  • Experienced in Configuring and administering Citrix Netscaler for load balancing the applications.  • Installed and Administered IBM WebSphere Portal Server 5.1.0.1/6.0.1.4/6.1.0.1.  • Experience in setting up of Nodes, Data Sources, Virtual Hosts and Session Management for WebSphere Application Servers.  • Involved in streamline development and testing using TIBCO in websphere application server.  • Experienced in providing intergation to Application server with TIBCO as jms resource provider allocation with the queue messaging • Troubleshooting Admin Server start-up issues, Java code defects after deployment and class path issues by checking the JVM logs, plug-in logs and the web server logs.  • Experience in using GC Collector and analyzed GC verbose logs to monitor and assess the JVM runtime Heap usage.  • Experienced in Configuring of JDBC Providers, JDBC data sources, connection pool, Virtual Hosting, JNDI, Global Security, SSL, SSO, and Open SSH, Open SSL, LDAP.  • Proficient in configuring WebSphere Application Server with monitoring tools like Tivoli Performance Viewer, ITCAM and Wily Interscope.  • Strong experience in Administration and Maintenance of WAS ND clusters (vertical, horizontal) and deployment of applications in highly available, load balanced production environments.  • Experience in design & implementation of both internet, intranet applications - DMZ and non DMZ.  • Good knowledge of Firewall configuration and Network protocols, DNS, Network Dispatchers and SSL certificates.  • On-call Production Support (24x7), monitoring and maintaining multiple Applications in Development, TEST, QA, Staging and Production Environments. Work Experience Sr. web Sphere Developer FMC Corporation April 2016 to Present Responsibilities: • Installed and Configured WebSphere MQ 7.5, Websphere Message Broker 8.0 with multi instance queue manager and Power HA.  • Implemented High Availability MQ on Distributed Systems. Supported enterprise business critical messaging which exploits MQ Series clustering and queue sharing.  • Administered the MQSeries Objects like Queue Managers, Queues, Channels, Process Definition, and Clusters.  • Supported MQ environments using command line (control commands and runmqsc commands).  • Worked with Web Services and deployed the test flow in broker environment • Followed problem and change management processes in performing and supporting problem determination and resolution, production changes, and maintenance for the offshore team.  • Responsible for documentation on every request/task related issues • Worked with the Development team in testing the connection and functionality • Implemented and maintained security exits.  • Created JMS binding files for web method to use in MQ with JMSAdmin tool.  • Configured WebSphere MQ channels to SSL for secured transmission of messages.  • Worked with developers with the issues they are having while connecting to MQSeries.  • Backup, recovery and trouble shooting for WMQ and WMB.  • Developed Ant scripts to extract Rule Set(s), build Rule App(s) and deploy on to RES server.  • Setup and Configured Jenkins tool to automate build and deployment process for RES/WAS/DC.  • Used web sphere operational decision management (WODM 8.0.1) to develop Rules for MAABD, FMC, TANF, SNAP healthcare programs.  • Design and delivery of Continuous Integration/Delivery platform using Chef, Jenkins, Rundeck and Artifact Repository.  • Worked with architecture team for naming conventions and design of MQSeries.  • Supported different environments like Development, QA and production.  • Configured DB2 with Message Broker and authorized permissions for accessing database.  • Worked with IBM Support on resolving critical problems by creating PMR's.  • Worked with application software development and testing group during development project life cycles and after deployment to resolve issues mainly related to message flows.  • Coordinated with developers and architecture team with implementation, architecture and development of MQ.    Environment: WebSphere Application Server 7.0/8.0, Windows 2003 Advanced Server, AIX 6.1, Websphere MQ 7.x,6.x ,DB2, Wily Introscope, Oracle 9i/10g, SEAS, Silk Central , Shell Scripts, Jython, Windows XP, IBM HTTP Server 7.0/8.0. Sr. web Sphere Developer November 2013 to March 2016 Responsibilities: • Responsible for the design and development of services and orchestrations in Cast Iron, DataPower and IIB.  • Involved in the implementation of the designs provided for building interfaces between client systems and Salesforce.com.  • Participated in Business requirement meetings involving stake holders and involved in finalizing BRDs and Functional requirement documents.  • Developed Common E-SQL and Java modules for implementing re-usable functions in IIB.  • Developed Message Broker interfaces with Collector and Aggregation nodes.  • Developed Web services (SOAP & REST) in IIB, Cast Iron and Datapower.  • Implemented WS Security, SSL and LDAP based authentication with AAA in Datapower.  • Developed Stored Procedures. Interacted with Databases from IIB, Datapower and Cast Iron.  • Worked closely with SAP Team in building in achieving interaction with SAP Enterprise services through SAP Adapter nodes and Web services.  • Configured WSPS, MPGWs and XML firewall Services in Datapower.  • Developed transformations in Datapower using XSLT. Used various DP extension functions.  • Developed WSDLs. Developed Message Models in IIB using DFDL.  • Worked with Health Care EDI formats (837, 270, 271) • Reviewing the business analysis & Impact documents for all the incident raised in production • Working on critical issues and provide the solution in less turnaround time.  • Participated in war room and crisis calls and involved in Production support.  • Installed and Configured WSRR.  • Developed Interfaces that use Global Caching.  • Used WSRR to support multiple Versions of WSDL and other partners WSDL and security certificates across multiple development, testing and releases.  • Implemented POC for Customization the Life Cycles of the WSRR Objects and Profiles.  • Participate in the implementation walkthroughs with the release teams.  • Responsible for Compliance implementations.  • Responsible for coming-up with performance tuning and cost saving ideas to improve the performance of batch and to add value to client.    Environment: Cast Iron, IIB 9.0, Message Broker 8.0, DataPower XI52, XB62, MQ Series 7.5, WTX, MQ FTE, BMC Remedy, Tivoli, ITCAM, Splunk, Akana Policy Manager, SAP, DB2, Java, ODM and WSRR Web sphere Developer September 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities: • Created and maintained integration for tax information between back-end system (Vertex) and website Websphere Commerce through ESB, BSS and JDE.  • Created and maintained live inventory calls from back-end (JD Edwards) to website Websphere Commerce to show product inventory on website through ESB, Solaris, SunOne, IPlanet, Siteminder, WebFocus, BSS and JDE.  • Created and maintained Order Status Application. This application populates a custom database with order information from the back-end (JD Edwards) system to display information on the website Websphere Commerce for customers through ESB, BSS and JDE.  • Created and maintained 2 web services that displayed order information and order detail information to website Websphere Commerce through ESB, BSS and JDE.  • Created and maintained user/account information from Oracle CRM to website Websphere Commerce through ESB, BSS and JDE.  • Helped architect product information to be integrated between back-end (JD Edwards) to website Websphere Commerce through ESB, BSS and JDE.  • Worked As a Websphere Commerce Technical support, handle Service Requests and Incident tickets in Production Support.  • Installed, configured and administered Oracle GlassFish and IBM Websphere Application server (WAS) on AIX , Red hat Linux Environment and Windows [ ] • Installed and configured Websphere Process Server (WPS) using the Golden Topology and good working knowledge on human tasks and business Processes.  • Worked on Websphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD) as the development environment for creating and deploying applications.  • Implemented the Spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects.  • Implemented JBOSS Cache provider with Hibernate second-level cache for clustered caching using cache factory interfaces and also defined configuration mappings like setting the Isolation levels and other cluster configurations.  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  • Implement the presentation layer (GUI), based on open source framework, involving Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, CSS, HTML, Solaris, SunOne, IPlanet, Siteminder, WebFocus, JavaScript and Beans.  • Development of JSP & Servlets, Tiles, Ajax, Action, Action Forms, Helper classes in struts based application.  • Developed JavaScript based components using ExtJS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  • Used Framework., JDBC, Hibernate, Struts, EJB2, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  • Developed UI panels using MyFaces, Facelets, XHTML, XML, CSS, XSLT and FLEX.    Environment: WebSphere Application Server 7.0,s6.x, Solaris 8,9 AIX, Websphere MQ 7.x,6.x ,DB2, Oracle, SQL Server, Sun-one webserver, Sun-one Directory Server, Netegrity Siteminder. WebSphere Developer March 2009 to August 2011 Responsibilities: • Experienced in Planning, Design, Installation and Integration of WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment v6.0/7.0 and IBM Http Server on diverse UNIX flavours that includes AIX, Linux and Windows Platforms (2003/2008) in a multi clustered high availability environments.  • Handled the maintenance of the WebSphere Application Servers on AIX/Windows platforms and setting up of the developing, staging and production environments for the ongoing application development.  • Worked with IBM Support and development teams in resolving issues related to application memory leaks, analyzing java cores and heap dumps using Thread and Heap analyzer tools.  • Installed, Configured & regenerated the Patches and Web Service Plug-in on Application servers and Web servers.  • Package, build, Integrate and deploy enterprise J2EE applications on WebSphere that involves EAR (Enterprise Archives) and WAR ( Web Archives).  • Configured GC parameters, monitoring the heap sizes by setting verbose GC, fine tuning and fixing memory issues.  • Implemented security using LTPA and LDAP for WebSphere Application Server, Portal Server.  • Involved in managing releases of products from development to QA to Pre-Production and Production.  • Performed troubleshooting on Java applications using WAS logs, traces, Log Analyzer, Resource Analyzer/Tivoli Performance Viewer in production environment.  • Experienced in using ITCAM to know health of the Applications and JVMS • Regularly attended status & CR meetings on behalf of Team & coordinate with different teams for task accomplishment.  • Provided 24/7 on call support for critical applications, flexible to work during off hours & in shift rotation.    Environment: IBM WebSphere Application Server ND 6.1/7.0, AIX 5.3, Red hat Enterprise Linux 4, IBM HTTP SERVER v6.1/7.0, Oracle 9i/10g,11g, Java JDK 1.5.0, IBM ISA 4.1. WebSphere Developer BR Raysoft Tech November 2007 to February 2009 Responsibilities: • Involved in providing support to wide variety of applications in a diverse setup which includes WebSphere Application Server ND/XD v6.1/5.0 on AIX 5L 5.3 and Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4 to an offshore company BR Raysoft Tech, India • Deployed Applications (WAR, JAR, and EAR) in Domain and Clustered environment.  • Involved in monitoring the JVM performance by Web Sphere Heap Size, garbage collection and JDBC Pools.  • Troubleshooting Application & JVM errors and configured tuned JVM for optimum performance.  • Intensively involved in IBM WebSphere Application Server troubleshooting scenarios like Out of memory, fusing IBM tools like Heap Analyzer, Thread Analyzer.  • Involved in setting up JVM tuning parameters after extensive R&D on trial & hit basis specifically parameters to enable inter core-group communication (for affective WLM) such as garbage collection.  • Installed Fixpacks, eFixes, and cumulative fixes to the existing infrastructure and new environment.  • Implemented horizontal, vertical & multiple clustering of application servers for achieving work load management (WLM), HA Manager, Scalability and avoiding single point failure.  • Involved in writing UNIX Shell scripts, JACL and Jython to automate the maintenance process of the WebSphere and recovered the backed up Web Sphere configuration using wsadmin, backupConfig and restoreConfig.  • Migrating applications from WebSphere Application v6.1 ND to WebSphere Application Server v7.0 ND.  • Enabled Security features using LDAP user registry for authentication and authorization privileges for Admin console.  • Provided Netegrity Siteminder and Identity Minder Identity Management solutions for the client Option.  • Configured WebSphere resources including JDBC providers, JDBC data sources and Connection Pools.  • Configured Session Persistence using different RDBMS Databases.  • Installing IBM HTTP Servers and integrated with WAS for load-balancing and fail-over using generated plug-in.  • Analyzed the problems using IBM Support Assistant (and/or interact with IBM support to solve the problems by sending IBM Problem Management Records (PMR).  • Monitored Log analyzer, Product logs, Installation logs, Administer server logs and Application server logs during troubleshooting for reported errors.  • Analyzing the scalability of the applications with the help of tools like IBM Tivoli Site Analyzer, ITCAM,Tivoli performance viewer.  • Responsible for supporting the existing portal Applications like Member portal and Group Portal and Managing the themes and skins, Deploying the portlets and virtual portals.  • 24/7 on call production support and troubleshooting problems related to WebSphere Application Server.    Environment: IBM WebSphere Application Server ND 6.1/5.0, WCM 6.x., Solaris 8/9, AIX 5.3, Red hat Enterprise Linux 4, Site minder, WCM, Apache WebServer v2.0, IBM HTTP SERVER v6.1, Wily Introscope, Oracle 9i/10g, DB2, Java/J2SE 1.4, J2EE 1.3, IBM Directory Server. web Sphere Developer January 2006 to October 2007 Responsibilities: • Installed, configured and administered of WebSphere Application Server 6.0/6.1, Network Deployment, Extended Deployment XD on multiple Platform.  • Installed and configured IBM HTTP Server and plug-in in development, staging and production environments.  • Configured WebSphere Application Server on multiple platforms for both Horizontal and Vertical clustering for Work Load Management.  • Configured WebSphere resources like JDBC providers, JDBC data sources, connection pooling, JMS, session management, virtual hosts and HTTP transports.  • Deployed e-commerce J2EE applications on multiple WebSphere application server and maintained Load balancing, high availability and fail over functionality.  • Involved in Installing and Configuration of JBoss Application Server on Linux, Solaris and windows.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts, ant, Jython scripts to automate the WebSphere XD Administration (recycling the application server, deploying customer applications, creating dynamic clusters, logs rotation, monitor applications state).  • Configured WebSphere Security using LDAP and Implemented SSL between WebSphere and LDAP and IHS and WebSphere.  • Enable global security for application servers and applications using Single Sign On (SSO) by LTPA mechanism on Secure Way LDAP User Registry.  • Problem determination through the log files (JVM Logs) and rectified the problems or interacting with IBM support to solve problems.  • Installed V5.1 Cumulative fix for WebSphere HTTP plug-in & V5.1.1, SDK 1.4.2 Cumulative fix • Installed Fixpacks on WebSphere Application Server v6.x and added patches using Update installer.  • Monitoring application log files, Application Server Performance, Servlet Status, Active Sessions and DB Pool connections.  • Troubleshot problems on the various environments involving the integrations of WebSphere, IBM HTTP Server, Apache Web Servers, and CA siteminder, Sunone directory server v5.x.  • Installed and Configured, administered the Webagent in Web server and integrating between policy server and web server using CA siteminder 6.0 and Apache web server 2.0.  • Configured global security on WebSphere using IBM Directory Server, Sun one directory server v5.x and secured the adminconsole using wsadmin Jython script.  • Configured Adminconsole security on WebSphere and creating users with various roles to access the WebSphere admin console - users and groups in LDAP and added them as WebSphere Console Groups using both adminconsole and wsadmin Jython.  • Installed SSL certificates on the Web Servers using ikeyman tool.  • Was involved in writing Shell scripts to automate WebSphere Admin tasks and application specific syncs / backups and other schedulers.  • Monitor and analyze data with Tivoli Performance Viewer.  • Debugged WebSphere Application Server connection pooling issues using Wily and generating thread dumps.  • Installed Web applications and enterprise applications to Test, QA and Production environments.  • Providing 24/7 support in a High availability environment.    Environment: WebSphere Application Server 5.x/6.x/xd, WebSphere Portal Server 5.1.0.x,, WebSphere MQ, JBoss Application Server, AIX v5.0, Java, JDK 1.3-1.4, JSP, EJB, UML, XML, SQL, Linux,Solaris, Windows, JavaScript, Jython, and DB2,TeraData,infomix,Oracle. Education Bachelor's