Front End/UI Developer Front End/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End/UI Developer - Progress Solutions Frisco, TX • Over 2 years of front- end web application development experience with technologies using Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, and OO JavaScript.  • Proficient in designing and developing Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular JS framework.  • High level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Expertise in Bootstrap framework and building responsive website for both desktop and mobile browser users.  • Involvement in using various IDEs like Sublime Text, Visual Studio Code, WebStorm, Eclipse, Notepad++.  • Hands on experience on CSS preprocessors such as LESS.  • Experience with versioning tools like GIT, and CVS.  • Deep understanding of JavaScript concepts such as Objects, Closures, Hoisting, Prototype, Callback, DOM manipulation/scripting, Prototype, Libraries and ECMAScript 6.0.  • Familiar with NoSQL Database Design, Analysis and Development like MongoDB.  • Worked with Agile scrum methodology.  • Experience in Software life cycle phases like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and estimating the time-lines for the project.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla FF, and Chrome.  • Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows NT / 2000/XP, UNIX.  • Good written and oral communication skills with ability to work in a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End/UI Developer Progress Solutions January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participating in business meetings and coordinate with Business Analysts to understand the business needs and implement the same in to a functional design.  • Applied advanced HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Involved in creating SPA (Single Page Applications) using Angular.js.  • Created reusable components (custom directives) to be shared among the application in different places instead of rewriting code again.  • Created various Angular directives, controllers, DOM, expressions, templates, data binding, etc.  • Used various features in AngularJS like data binding, routing, custom filters, custom directives to meet various customized requirements  • The new website has made it much easier for the users to access the page and check the required information.  • Being a part of analysis, design, development and maintenance stages of features that are being added to application.  • Used Dependency Injection to inject services, directives, filters.  • Created factory methods to register with modules for the components.  • Debugging and troubleshooting issues and resolving the high priority defects that are blocking the flow.  • Working on GIT repository to check in code changes and monitoring CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) pipeline jobs in Jenkins after delivering changes.  • Extensively worked on angular promises and deferred objects to make a service call to REST API.  • Sound knowledge in working with cross browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Chrome.  • Experience in working in an Agile Development environment.    Environment: JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, HTML5, CSS3, ATOM, Soap UI, Visual Studio, GIT, Bootstrap, DOM, JSON, Jenkins, Cucumber, XML, Windows. Web Developer Trainee Susensoft Global Services Inc January 2018 to April 2018 Responsibilities:    • Involved in development, design and implementation of front-end part of the application.  • Used Sublime text as Html editor for designing new pages.  • Responsible for the layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, and CSS3.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls.  • Observing and analyzing the code developer writes.  • Knowing the installation of necessary Modules and Packages to launch a new application.  • Attending daily scrum meetings with the team.  • Being a part of scheduled Sprint meeting, to understand how tasks to be achieved for that specific Sprint are planned.  • Involved in creating SPA (Single Page Applications) using Angular.js.  • Involved in modifying data, updating data and retrieving data using SQL queries.  • Worked with the team of architects and back-end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, sublime text, SQL developer, DOM, Windows. UI / Web Developer Sonata Software - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2014 to March 2015 India    Responsibilities:  • Requirements gathering, analysis, designing, development, testing and maintenance of the websites.  • Design developed and updated the user interface using CSS, JavaScript and Dreamweaver.  • Developed websites using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and Ajax.  • Created web page layouts using HTML and CSS.  • Worked with backend engineers to build appropriate web services to support the frontend.  • Stayed on top of new front-end technologies and help drive innovation to solve UX, design problems, and determine how they can improve our development process.  • Used Ajax to refresh only certain section of the page and reduce the load on the web server.  • Used Cascading Style Sheets in order to separate presentation from the structure.  • Extensively tested the websites, identified the bugs using Firebug and fixed them.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, Ajax, MS Office, Windows 7/XP    Declaration:  I hereby confirm that all the information provided above, is authentic and to the best of my knowledge, and all documents in support to it can be provided if required.    Place: US Raviteja Education Masters in Computers and Information Science Southern Arkansas University 2018 Bachelors in Computer Science Osmania University 2013 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, Angular, Front End, UI, Front-End Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Responsive Web design, SQL, PL/SQL, JSON  IDE & Tools Notepad++, Eclipse, , Sublime Text, WebStorm, Visual studio Code  Version Control Gulp, GIT, Soap UI  JavaScript Libraries Angular.js, , Node.js  Publishing Tools MS Office  Data Access Oracle 10g,  Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7/8, Mac.