Developer III <span class="hl">Developer</span> III Developer III - RealPage Inc., Pittsburgh Office Pittsburgh, PA I am Senior PHP Developer with over 16 years of experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer III RealPage Inc., Pittsburgh Office January 2018 to Present After Rent Jungle was acquired by Real Page, I was excited to be one of only three developers from the Rent Jungle team to be assigned to the RealPage innovations teams. The Real Page team is responsible for creating new products, coming  up with new ideas, and maintaining such products. I am responsible for both creating new features, and maintenance on  a real time custom support chat product using twilio to facilitate the routing of chats, texts and phone calls.    Key Accomplishments:  • Created real-time view of tasks (texts and chats)  • Created front end UI for operations that were being manually done in database  • Found and fixed many existing bugs in the system Senior Web Developer Rent Jungle - Pittsburgh, PA May 2016 to January 2018 Jan 2018  Recruited in 2016 to work as a full stack LAMP developer on the Rent Jungle web site. Rent Jungle is an ILS - a web site  that lists rentals from all across the US. My job was to assist the team in all facets of the web site. I used PHP with the CAKEPHP framework, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Git, GitHub, and Docker. Created Linux command line script and short cuts to assist me with my daily job.  Rent Jungle ~~~~~~~~~  Key Accomplishments:  • Created AMP version of our rent trends page  • Implemented and designed UX redesign  • Blog design and implementation  • SEO A/B experiments using Google Optimize  • Created guided walk-thru experience for new visitors  • Optimized performance report speed. Senior Web Developer Sock Dreams - Portland, OR 2006 to 2016 Remote Employee  Recruited in 2006 to automate Sock Dreams' product pages via a staff admin interface as a freelance consultant. Was  quickly converted to full time employment based on impressive work product and positive business results. Continually  increased scope of responsibility and complexity of the work which included coding a new checkout process and eventually rebuilding the entire site and admin control with PHP, MySQL, JavaScript and CSS. Brought new ideas that  were a result of research and data, which upon implementation increased company profits.    Key Accomplishments:  • Coded mobile site by implementing a mobile detection system that picks mobile templates if available. This  system was released Nov 2015, and resulted in a 30% increase in mobile sales and a 20% increase in mobile  conversion rates.  • Implemented an Email Marketing system using PHPList as the sending system. Coded custom functions to hook  into the PHPList database so that the PHPList system was invisible to the customer. During checkout and on email preference pages, the system looked up the customer's email via AJAX and dynamically updated the  selections to match.  • Coded a custom cart reminder/recovery system which resulted in a 5% increase in overall revenue.  • Coded a SOLR search system into the web site, enabling customers to perform multi-faceted search and accurate text search at very fast speeds.  • Managed Sock Dreams' AdWords account, bringing non branded keywords and product image campaigns from  165% ROI to a current ROI of 520%. PHP Web Developer Consultant Mica Media - Pittsburgh, PA 2002 to 2007 Coded a variety of web sites and applications as a consultant. Coded the backend in PHP which included turning the design into HTML / CSS. High Profile projects worked on included:    • Talkinbroadway - All That Chat - high traffic custom message board system  • Talkinbroadway - on the boards - Broadway show schedule system  • Timeshare Title - internal sales tracking system  • WYEP-FM - backend to control content of site, including interfacing with the stations playlist software. Education BS in Computer Science in Computer Science University Of Pittsburgh 2002 Skills Javascript, PHP, MySQL, Git, HTML 5, Jquery, CSS Assessments PHP Development Skills — Highly Proficient November 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to apply understanding of fundamental PHP data types and structures to identify errors and create scripts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pam8oedj6gpffsgq Problem Solving — Highly Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/woolb-3m9d6syfqf Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.