CG Public Web Designer & Developer CG Public <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer &amp; <span class="hl">Developer</span> CG Public Web Designer - United States Coast Guard Chesapeake Beach, MD Work Experience CG Public Web Designer & Developer United States Coast Guard - Washington, DC October 2018 to Present 2703 Martin Luther King Jr Ave SE  Washington DC, DC 20020 United States    10/2018 - Present  Hours per week: 40  CG Public Web Designer with USCG Public Affairs  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:    - Developed and implemented the standards of a new, coherent and compliant U.S. Coast Guard brand.  - Extensive knowledge of USCG web design/coding using principles and techniques to integrate content into websites.  - Diagnosed and resolved website operational problems, and appropriately consider relevant security, accessibility, and authentication issues.  - Managed all the multi-media, audio-visual, video, digital products, streaming including the Visual Information Management System (VIMS) website, CG  Homepage website creating a high exposure events and function as the primary point of contact for public web inquiries -- bolstering the public's trust.  - Managed prominent web content and promotional features, such as Arctic, Always Ready, Blended Retirement, among others; on the USCG site to ensure  freshness and relevance.  - Maintained and monitored organizational websites, projects and social media, according to predetermined guidelines, mastering the techniques and methods  for administration, maintenance, and monitoring of websites and web services.  - Coordinated the planning, drafting, editing, approving, and publication of the USCG content using the AFPIMS content management system.  - Responsible for planning and implementing high quality visual materials and video/digital streaming for CG websites relaying information to the public and communicating with a variety of audiences.  - Responsible for planning, creating and implementing visual information products, graphic art production and graphic design for the blended retirement system  web site (BRS) having a direct and substantial impact on the organization to inform all the members about the upcoming changes.  - Implemented video/digital streams which maximized the visual information to enhance public understanding and support of the CG missions, policies, and activities on the website reaching out over 5,000 viewers.  - Designed and implemented the USCG Commandant web page layout using an electronic media design and making recommendations and decisions to achieve a high quality product on a timely and efficient manner, bringing the Commandant web page to one of the top searchable pages under the uscg.mil  domain. Received a personal flag letter from the USCG Commandant.  - Provided recommendations and advanced technical advice and support in planning, designing, implementing, and maintaining to the organization's websites, partnering with the leadership and content managers and product managers to integrate content into more than 10 domains, creating a direct and substantial  impact on how the CG web sites communicate with the public and stakeholders and maintaining all the legal requirements.  - Executed large audits on the USCG site to ensure quality assurance, plan language, broken links, accessibility, were at minimum to none.  - Provided recommendations on Simple Mail transfer Protocol standards, Gov. Delivery, including forward-looking industry trends, best-practices for existing  media delivery methods, and compliance.  - Collaborates with managers and editors from various departments and stakeholders to gather material and ensure timeliness, relevance, and accessibility of public presentations.  - Produced a variety of visual material in hard copy and electronic formats that are designed to promote a range of programs and projects, such as blended  retirement system, CG Commandant site, CG history web site, arctic communication plans among others to a varying cultural groups and/or specific target  audiences into the organization's websites.  - Lead planning, development and maintenance of the Coast Guard enterprise wide VIMS (Visual Information Management System) web app and the desktop  version. VIMS streamlines high quality multi-media content between field offices and public affairs professionals enhancing communication to members of the public and Coast Guard stakeholders to advance Coast Guard objectives, moving image media video and audio productions.  - Responsible for the CG app store and for overseeing 8 CG apps and was the main lead for the CG flagship app which has more than 180,000 downloads  across platforms.  - Managed all app development projects, including front end and back end development of enterprise websites and apps.  - Lead member on project planning sessions with team members to analyze requirements and provide production and delivery recommendations for media  projects.  - Obtained a vast knowledge on electronic communication across the internet and social medias outlet.  - Provided recommendations on the budget processes and requirements, to include appropriately identifying, prioritizing, and coordinating needed hardware and software procurement.  - Developed requirements and specifications for systems related to the delivery of media involving complex or intricate issues or problems.  Supervisor: LT. Caleb James (813-313-6368)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Interactive Fingerpaint Marketing Agency - Conshohocken, PA July 2016 to Present 181 Washington St #300  Conshohocken, PA 19428 United States    07/2016 - Present  Salary: 95,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 40  Interactive  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  - Interacting with clients, exploring and advising technological possibilities, and discovering solutions that fit their goals bu providing technical advice, creating  journey maps, flow diagrams, wireframes, and prototypes.  - Experience designing, developing, and implementing user friendly, innovative user experience concepts and solutions across multiple platforms.  - Architecting and developing large-scale, well-written applications.  - Writing clean, structured, object-oriented code with change and reuse in mind  - Webkit, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery,HTML/HTML5, Bootstrap framework, CSS/CSS3, SASS, device/server communications via JSON, XML and other similar  platforms.  - Planned and created landing pages and emails campaigns utilizing a variety of tools such as Adobe Creative Suite, Photoshop, Illustrator, Bridge, After Effects, Edge, Brackets.  - Scheduled and coordinated the creation of content for digital media formats, oversees idea development, schedules, and manages financial decisions to bring  a project to fruition.  - Back-end development and web server administration.  - SQL database.  - Developing custom plug-ins and themes for WordPress and prototypes, and served as Information Technology (IT) development liaison for creation and delivery of new media for electronic publication.  - Manage source code with GIT.  - QA approach and manages change control.  - Compiled and analyzed customer satisfaction and web analytics information using Site Improve, Google Analytics.  - Evaluated, interpreted, and participated in the development and documentation of overall business requirements for moving image media video and audio  productions.  - Provided clients and superviors with web analytics.  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Contact me first Web Designer and Developer U.S. Coast Guard Web Transition Team - Washington, DC February 2017 to September 2018 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  • Migrated 10,000 USCG public websites to a DoD content management system (AFPIMS), accelerating the anticipated completion date by 90 days and increasing cyber security stance saving US Coast Guard over $1 million.  • Authored the Public Web Governance, defining policy for over 200 users.  • Manage day-to-day operations of public websites including creating quality pages for high exposure events and function as the primary point of contact for public web inquiries -- bolstering the public's trust.  • Oversee the updating of operational pages resulting in a savings of $15,000 in user accounts.  • In response to the sudden closure of the USCG News platform, orchestrated the rapid two week deployment of a new website resulting in minimal downtime.  • Launched public facing websites for Hurricanes Harvey & Irma with an hour turn-around providing the public with vital rescue & recovery resources, maintaining operational commanders' freedom of actions.  Supervisor: Lieutenant Reuben Caleb James (813.313.6368)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Technical Creative Developer prior PointRoll - A Gannett Company - King of Prussia, PA July 2010 to July 2016 3200 Horizon Dr # 120  King Of Prussia, PA 19406 United States    07/2010 - 07/2016  Salary: 80,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 40  Technical Creative Developer  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Implement functionality and proprietary classes into existing and new creative.  - Handle the technical integration of various features/technologies into rich media advertising units.  - Utilizes Flash implementation, Action Script coding (AS2/AS3), and Action Script-XML interaction proficiently and effectively.  - Implement functionality and proprietary classes either from the ground up or into already existing creative.  - Performs the technical integration of features/technologies into rich media advertising units, including but not limited to, streaming video, sending/receiving  dynamic data, form integration and validation, polling, and "send-to-a-friend."  - Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained WAP on different platforms.  - Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained mobile websites for a variety of mobile browsers.  - Support ongoing changes to the production mobile websites and/or apps.  - Works as a technical lead for mobile development work, leading the design and implementation effort  - Utilizes Webkit, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, device / server communications via JSON, XML.  Supervisor: Cherise Khloe (484-844-1533)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Owner Wizard Language of Philadelphia School and Business Center - Philadelphia, PA March 2007 to December 2012 7708 Castor Ave  Philadelphia, PA 19152 United States    03/2007 - 12/2012  Hours per week: 40  Owner  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  • Founded an LLC in 2007 that contained an Adult Language School and a Community Service Center for immigrants  • Produced 6 high quality courses levels for over a 1,000 students over a period of 6 years.  • Taught English as second language (ESL) and computer class to regular and enterprise students.  • Trained the community on how to present themselves in a job interview and how to write resume. This resulted in a substantial increase on a employment rate.  • Established and maintained and effective and productive relationship with the Brazilian Consulate in NY providing expedited passports in a timely and efficient  manner serving more than 3,000 people over the community.  • Supervised and managed a staff of 20 teacher and admin.  • Early 2012 sold the business to move on with my personal and professional career.  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Contact me first Education Associate's Degree Camden County College Blackwood May 2005 Bachelor's in Compuer Science Faculdades Positivo - Curitiba, PR December 1996 Skills CSS, HTML 5, Jquery, PHP, MYSQL, Javascript, Git