Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Miami, FL Motivated web developer with a passion for creating elegant solutions involving front end and back end technologies. Enthusiastic about developing responsive web applications. Recently completed a nine-week intensive web development bootcamp focused on full stack technologies. Former 3D artist with ten years of industry experience. Driven learner and tenacious researcher seeking an opportunity to explore web-based proficiencies and interests. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Self-employed - Miami, FL April 2015 to Present • Create 3D real estate sales apps using JavaScript and WebGL framework Babylon.JS.  • Design and develop report processing applications for construction and civil engineering  management firms.  • Direct general company operations, including, but not limited to relevant accounting duties, client relations, and project management. Project Manager/3D Artist The Realization Group, Inc - Miami, FL February 2008 to April 2015 Implemented an efficient project production pipeline to ensure high-quality and timely product  delivery.  • Presented visualization marketing materials and products to various architectural design teams  and project owners.  • Oversaw a team of eight architectural visualization artists and provided quality customer  service to Architectural design clients.    1 Education Certificate in Web Development Ironhack - Miami, FL June 2019 to August 2019 Associate in Arts Miami Dade College - Miami, FL Skills Api, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Html5, Ajax, Css, Mongodb, jquery, Passport Links http://linkedin.com/in/pablo-vazquez-fayat http://github.com/PabloVazquezFayat Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  JavaScript, React.js, Express.js, MongoDB, Node.js, Babylon.js, HTML, CSS, SCSS, AJAX, jQuery, Responsive Design, Bootstrap, Git, GitHub    DEPLOYED PROJECTS  Jedi Survival https://pablovazquezfayat.github.io/gameProject  Jedi Survival is a 2D game where players must survive as long as possible as a Jedi Knight against enemy Stormtroopers.    Technologies used: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, and the WebGL framework Babylon.js    Materials https://materials-3d.herokuapp.com  Materials is a cloud-based image repository for 3D artists. Materials allows users to create and archive texture assets in a simple and intuitive user-friendly platform.    Technologies used: JavaScript, Express.js, MongoDB, Node.js, HTML, CSS, SCSS,  Handlebars.js, Passport.js, Babylon.js, and Heroku    Cobalt https://cobalt-chat.herokuapp.com  Cobalt is a mobile friendly chat application which allows users to communicate with their peers, create chat groups, add contacts, and share whimsical GIFs with friends.    Technologies used: React.js, JavaScript, Node.js, MongoDB, Express.js, Passport.js, HTML, CSS, Giphy API, Socket.io.