UX/UI Designer, Senior Web Developer UX/UI Designer, Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> UX, UI & Web Designer, Project Manager Folsom, CA More than 15 years’ experience as a web developer and UX/UI designer, for multiple brands across different industries. Passion for crafting an engaging product not only based on data driven objectives, but also by way of a creative and empathetic approach to shape a user’s experience. Enjoys providing an intuitive experience for the user through an artistic and analytical approach. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UX/UI Designer, Senior Web Developer MAXPREPS - El Dorado Hills, CA 2006 to 2018 Project lead and lead developer for the design and redesign of MaxPreps.com, MaxPreps.com mobile, and redesign of the  Coach Administration site:  ? Integral member of team that migrated MaxPreps.com from a templating system, to a .NET application  ? Managed projects and bugs using Jira  ? Worked with several advertisers to design and develop  sponsorship opportunities within MaxPreps and externally for clients such as; Adidas, Nike, Gatorade, Burger King, Army  National Guard, Marines, Cannon, Whataburger    Product Development / Management: Designed, developed and managed the build of the following products:  ? MaxPreps Internal Administration site created for employees  ? Coach Administration site: Collaborated directly with High  School coaches to design sites that best catered to their  needs; secure sites that allow coaches to manage rosters, schedules, stats, and more  ? State Association Administration: Collaborated with High  School State Associations to design site; these are secure sites  that allow state associations to manage teams, playoffs, tournaments brackets, and more  ? Army National Guard Rivalry Series microsite: Annual Multi- million-dollar sponsor  ? Play-by-Play system allowing user to provide live play-by-plays  and scores for football and basketball: 200% growth in pageviews year-over-year for three consecutive years  ? "Heart and Soul of the Game" microsite for Whataburger  using React.js: project generated $300K in revenue  ? Football Signing Day page: this project annually changes  sponsors  Mobile App Design using Sketch:  ? Teams App: Community app for coaches, athletes and parents  ? MaxPreps App: Scores, schedules and rankings for all  consumers Education Associate of Applied Science in Applied Science MTI College of Business and Technology - Sacramento, CA Skills Semantic HTML, CSS, Responsive Design, React.js, JavaScript, MS Visual Studio & Code, Sketch, Principle, Git, Jira (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/danhaynoschjr Additional Information • Semantic HTML, PHP and C#  • Responsive Design/Layouts  • JavaScript (ES5+), jQuery, AJAX  • React.js  • CSS  • SASS  • CSS Modules  • Styled Components  • MS Visual Studio  • MS Visual Studio Code  • Dreamweaver  • Photoshop  • Sketch  • Principle  • Git  • Jira    CONTACT  916-335-7727  dhaynosch@gmail.com  Folsom, CA