Technology Analyst (consulting) Technology Analyst (consulting) Front End Developer Austin, TX Result oriented Web Developer with deep knowledge of modern layout and CSS methods, responsive design (include CSS media queries, grid, flex), proficient in BEM methodology and creating a custom CSS grid system. Experienced with Node.js, MongoDB, Mongoose, and Express. Linux enthusiast. Team player. Strong troubleshooting and analytical abilities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technology Analyst (consulting) Infosys November 2018 to Present • Refactoring the code of existed client's applications.  • Modifying (modernizing) front-end part of legacy client's web apps to fit into modern requirements.  • Enrolled in various training programs on Network Technologies, related to the client's business needs. Front End Developer Moongate April 2017 to November 2018 • Write maintainable, scalable, responsive, and cross-browser code.  • Use React JS to develop the SPA.  • Work on MERN stack React app, create Components using React  • Translate design to front-end code, estimate time and determine developer requirements and specifications.  • Utilized cutting edge JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3 techniques, frameworks, and libraries.  • Created and implemented a custom CSS grid system, with CSS media queries for mobile responsiveness.  • Programmed HTML5 canvases to animate particles on web backgrounds for site-wide promotions. Junior Web Developer Digichord February 2015 to March 2017 • Tested front-end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, J Query, and Bootstrap in a Linux environment.  • Assisted in the development of back end features Node.js, Express.js, and MongoDB.    Trainings and certifications completed during last year:  • Creating Responsive Web Pages using Bootstrap 4  • Modern JavaScript for Web Development  • API Development using Node and Express  • Web Accessibility Engineering  • Modern React with Redux  • Designing and Styling Web Pages using CSS  • Advanced UNIX - text processing and Shell programming Education Master's Degree National Economics University - Odessa, UA Skills Git, Javascript (4 years), Bootstrap, Node.js, Redux, Python, Html5, SCSS, Mongodb, jquery, Mysql, React (1 year), Express, Linux Links http://@National Additional Information Skills:    Languages and markups: JavaScript(ES6), HTML5, CSS3, Python  Preprocessors: SASS  Frameworks and libraries: Bootstrap, jQuery, Node.js, Express.js, React, Redux  Version control system: Git, SVN  Database: MongoDB, MySQL/MariaDB  Methodology: BEM  Other: Web Accessibility, responsive design, cross-browser development and compatibility experience