Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - SEI Investments Dallas, TX • 9+ years of extensive experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including identification of business needs and constraints, collection of requirements, architecture, UI Design, implementation, testing, deployment and maintenance.  • Knowledge in UI development, UX design, Frontend development, rich user interface design, development, documentation, web 2.0 specifications, standards, media (screen, mobile, touch interface) compatibilities, application architecture, visual design, wireframes, project and team management.  • Experienced in developing both front end and back end applications using JSTL, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3,JavaScript, EXTJS4, AngularJS 1.0x, Angular JS 2.0, React JS, Redux, Backbone.JS, Tiles,MVC, Adobe Flex4, DHTML, Ext JS, Knockout JS, Polymer, Node JS,SAAS, D3, RWD, DOM, DOJO, Flash, Gulp, PHP, Python, Ruby, Perl, XHTML, jQuery, and Ajax,junkins.  • Extensive experience of OOAD, OOPS, Multi-tier and distributed architectures in developing web-based and client-server application.  • Experience in working with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX and JQUERY.  • Used Node.JS to develop backend components, connect the application with the other web service Apache Cordova.  • Experience in making Responsive web pages (RWD) using Bootstrap, RESTful API web developmentand media queries.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Developed Interactive graphs using D3 JS with JSON data.  • Experience in designing various forms, tooltips, menus, tabs, widgets that support drag-and-drop, animated effects, data and time selector and many others using jQuery.  • Pretty good experience in Cloud Applications and Polymer.  • Experience integrating RESTful APIs and web services with applications.  • Experience with native or hybrid mobile app development experience.  • Experience with node testing libraries mocha, chai, karma, jasmine etc.  • Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) Framework, JQuery, Angular.JS, React.JS, Redux, Backbone.JS, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites.  • Experience in implementing Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, JQuery, DHTML, Web Service call and JSON.  • Pretty good Experience on various JavaScript Frameworks depending on the use case (e.g. JQuery, React JS, Angular JS, Ext JS).  • Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC in the browser, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, Angular JS and XML.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations usingHTML, HTML5 and Java Script.  • Experience in Web Services like SOAP, WSDL and good Knowledge in SOA.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Good experience in developing web Applications using frameworks implementing Action Controllers, Action Forms, Spring Validation Framework and Spring Tag Libraries.  • Extensive knowledge of social networking integration via Facebook API, and Twitter REST API.  • Proficiency with various design tools such as Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Flash.  • Well versed with various software development methodologies - Waterfall, Agile, BDD, TDD, Lean, Kanban, Iterative and Scrum.  • Experienced with JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Worked in wide range of environments, with IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, and with SVN and Git.  • Experienced in working in AGILE based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions.  • Experienced in working with various databases Oracle, SQL Server, JDBC and MySQL.  • Expert in creating Templates, Mockups, and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts.  • Experience in A/BTesting UnitTesting (Jasmine, Karma), Integration Testing and Automation testing (SELENIUM).  • Ability to handle multiple tasks and to work independently as well as in a team, experienced in interacting with Business/Technology groups. Work Experience Sr. UI Developer SEI Investments - Dallas, TX January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible to enhance the UI using HTML, CSS, Java Script, Ruby, JAVA, RWD, XML, JSP as per the requirements and provided the client side using JQuery validations.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Angular JS, Ext JS design.  • Developed application for different browsers and fixed bugs for browser compatibility.  • Interacted and worked with cross-functional teams.  • Used Java script, Grunt.js and Angular JS 2.0 for client side validations.    • Pretty good knowledge on Typescript.  • Worked on managing application state with Redux.  • Worked on various Java Script frame works depending on the use case(e.g. JQuery, ReatJS, Angular JS, Ext JS)  • Worked on Responsive web pages (RWD) using Bootstrap, RESTful API web development and media queries.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Used MongoDB as cross-platform storage for load balancing, indexing and file storage.  • Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQUERY.  • Worked on JavaScript tools like Grunt, Gulp, NPM and Bower.  • Involved in implementing data grid/tables using Bootstrap and Angular JS for front-end client facing of the Single Page applications (SPA).  • Good practice with the Node JS Application in building the minified versions.  • Used Spring Core Annotations foe Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate spring framework.  • Worked on Web Content Management (WCM) Tools and technologies like AngularJS, HTML5, jQuery, CSS/CSS3, JSON and other web technologies.  • Experienced with JavaScript testing library such as Jasmine and karma.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js, React.js.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework likeBackbone.js and Node.js.  • Developed web services component using XML, WSDL and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications.  • Implemented Single-page web application, which are light-weight using Backbone JS, knockoutJS and PHP.  • Implemented pagination using jQuery and react JS.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Used Java script and Angular JS for client side validations and also used SOAP UI for testing the web services by sending a SOAP request.  • Build SOAP Web services based on AWS(Amazon web services).  • Used AJAX for server communication and seamless user experience.  • Extensively used Jasmine framework for testing Java Script Code.  • On spot fixes for the issues raised before the release of the project to live.  • Extensive usage of IE developer toolbar, Firebug to debug the code and improve its efficiency.  • Best practice on Angular implementation in the project worked for customers business user Accounts.  Environment: RWD, JSP, Typescript, Angular JS 2.0, Jasmine, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Grunt , NPM and Bower , Redux, Polymer, JQuery, SASS, RWD, Ruby, React.JS, Node.JS, D3, Backbone.JS, Responsive Web Design, Restfull API'S, REQUIRE JS, XML, Gulp, Cassandra, Media Queries, Bootstrap, SQL, SVN, ESB, Ext JS, SOAP, Jasmine, Junit, Mongo DB. Sr. Web Developer/UI Developer Optum Health - Eden Prairie, MN October 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed UI for web platform using JavaScript, HTML, CSS3, and JavaScript, RWD, JSP, Python, JQuery validations and JSON.  • The configurations for simulating an HTTP request handling in Node JS by using Express.  • Worked on various enhancements and bug fixes simultaneously JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Used Node JS to develop the back end components, connect the application with the other web services.  • Developing customer-facing software for managing advertisements using Backbone.JS.  • Worked on testing using Karma before sent to deployment.  • Worked on JavaScript tools like Grunt, NPM and Bower.  • Developed applications implementing Ajax Calls for Dynamic Content Loading.  • Worked on various JavaScript Frameworks depending on the use case (e.g. JQuery, React JS, Angular JS, Ext JS).  • Good practice with the Node. JS Application in building the minified versions.  • Used Struts to develop changes in web applications and request mapping in a single core file.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Wrote SQL Queries and stored procedures for Oracle.  • Worked on Responsive web pages (RWD) using Bootstrap, RESTful API web developmentand media queries.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript (mobile apps).  • Worked on CSSBackground, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements etc.  • Created screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Development of highly interactive multiplayer HTML5 / CSS3 / Canvas based games using AngularJS and jQuery with custom Grunt JS configurations for testing and final deployment.  • Used Twitter Bootstrap framework for developing customizable and fully responsive for various screen sizes in mobile, tablet and desktop.  • Implemented and tested the enterprise application with JQuery.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular JS, React JS.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework likeBackbone JS and Node JS.  • Used JavaScript, JQuery for user interactions in pages.  • Experienced with Apache Free Marker to generated text outputs based on templates and changing data.  • Involved in writing and modifying procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and called them from JavaScript using the local application framework.  • Worked on Github to maintain the repository.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Development of highly interactive multiplayer HTML5 / CSS3 / Canvas based games using AngularJS and jQuery with custom GruntJS configurations for testing and final deployment.  • Built main applications in leveraging technologies such as Angular JS, Backbone JS.  • Created client surveys and displayed the results in a dynamic report using d3.JS.  • Extensively used SOAP-based web services. Responsible for Coding, Unit Testing and Functional Testing and Regression Testing of the systems.  • Involved in implementing data grid/tables using Bootstrap and Angular JS for front-end client facing of the Single Page applications (SPA).  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Create design documents when and as requiredPerform coding, debugging and testing.    • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Took advantage of MVC pattern of Angular JS framework to produce higher maintainability of the code.  • Developed mobile site for marketing campaigns by using jQuerymobile, Backbone.js and Ember.js.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on JIRA to maintain and update the task.  Environment: MYSQL, Red Hat Linux 3.2.3, CSS3, d3.JS , Angular JS, AJAX, JQuery 1.4.1, Angular, Ext JS, Apache Flex, Bootstrap, HTML, JavaScript, Media Queries, JQuery, Grunt , NPM and Bower, SAAS, RWD, Angular.JS, Node.JS, Responsive Web Design, Spring, Hibernate, Ember, Python, Bootstrap, Karma, Restful API's, Cloud Applications, React.JS, Backbone.JS, MS Word, Grunt, Microsoft Visio, Ext JS, Eclipse IDE 5.5.0, RWD, JSP, Github. UI Developer Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC October 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support.  • Created web pages using wireframes and mockup.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS page layouts.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Designed and implemented APIs to support mobile applications.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Node.js.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS3 and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards  • Created optimized graphic websites and application interfaces using HTML, CSS and jQuery UI.  • Participated in the research of new technologies like JQUERY-Mobile for few potential mobile app development efforts.  • Experience working closely with Business Analysts and Product team in understanding the technical requirements.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Worked in teams where requirements were constantly being implemented, and tested.    Environment: HTML5/4, CSS3/2, JavaScript, Closure, Angular.JS, Responsive web design, Rest full API's, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, SOAP Web Service, ADA Compatibility , Panache, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, MySQL, QTest, GITHUB. UI Web developer Halliburton, TX May 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed the front-end featuring rich web interface implemented using JavaScript libraries like JQuery, AngularJS  • Designed web pages using with HTML5/HTML, CSS3and JQuery based on theW3C standard  • Developed huge multi-advertisement layout engine that was cross browser compatible  • Created User Interface in DOJO/AJAX and Struts2 tags for different customized screens  • Redesigned and implemented complete web application to meet web and industry standards  • Developed and improved application using MVC Framework.  • Worked on Migrating the Entire Application from AngularJS to Angular 2.  • URL routing handled by UI state router, allowing us to divide the application into logical modules templates and controllers), each of which would be instantiated when its route was invoked  • Consumed Java RESTful APIs using Client side framework AngularJS  • Developed web pages using Polymer JS, Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components.  • Built backend REST API with Node.js, Express.js.  • Created React.js for reusable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads).  • Implemented React.js Controllers to maintain each view data  • Implemented Initial setup and component migration to Redux.  • Experienced in working with Redux and Alt JS architecture.  • Examined the enhancement requests to understand the priorities of the bugs and fixing them to make the site release successful.  • Extensive usage of IE developer toolbar, Firebug to debug the code and improve its efficiency.  • Used EXTJS for building rich internet applications, backbone JS & Require JS to optimize in-browser use and to load the module and to improve the Speed.  • Implemented Backbone.js and React.js to create a dynamically changing website.  • Worked with Express middleware to build a test server using NodeJS.  • Implemented client side Interface using React JS.  • Tested/De-bugged on the browser using Firebug.  • Done coding using JavaScript for page functionality and Light box plugins using JQUERY.  • Built backend REST API with Node.js, Express.js.  • Worked on AngularJS MVC/MVVM Framework  • Implementation of a form designer module for a web based system, in order to allow the users to create their own forms, using UI and JQuery JavaScript frameworks  • Experience in making responsive web pages using Twitter Bootstrap  • Developed UI, Virtual Objects (VO) and models by using Flash, Ajax, and Action Script 3.0  • Major work done on the User Interface part in DOJO to make it more interactive and user friendly  • Used AngularJS via JSON to fetch the data from Web Services    Environment: HTML, CSS, Angular 2, Polymer, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, and Tomcat. UI Developer Stone Bridge Life Insurance, TX July 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Followed AGILE Methodology and participated in SCRUM Meetings.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) as requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design & development for the project.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML, DHTML, CSS, RWD, JSP, Perl, JavaScript, DOM, JQuery and AJAX that follows W3C Web standards and are browser compatible.  • Developed database stored procedures, functions, triggers and sequences.  • Developed the server side using java and front end with java scripting, XML, HTML.  • Used HTML and CSS in the development in front end of the application.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, CSS in ongoing projects  • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developed application pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, RWD, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Took advantage of MVC pattern of Angular JS framework to produce higher maintainability of the code.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework likeNode.js.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Responsible for the design and creation of visualizations of new high-impact visual applications to make data actionable.  • Manages a repository of re-usable data visualization templates and views.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer.  • Object Data Access Object, Service Locator and Singleton.  • Used PL/SQL to create, update and manipulate tables    Environment::JQuery, Websphereapplicationserver, Bootstrap, MVC, RWD, JSP, Perl, JavaScript, Design patterns, HTML, CSS, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, CSS3, Angular JS, Node.JS, Responsive web design, Rest full API'S, Web Services, PL/SQL, UML, Ajax, JUnit, Maven, ClearQuest. Web Developer BCBG Max Azria - Los Angeles, CA April 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Coordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.  • Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using PHP, HTML, JOOMLA, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Coded Business Logic component using PHP.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Implemented applications in JavaScript and MYSQL.  • Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.  • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Tested/Debugged web browser using Firebug.  • Managed and implemented all codes changes via SVN. Deploying builds across development, staging and production instances and maintained code integrity.  • Created an inline-edit and widget-collapse feature for the web page.  • Performed graphical design and web site contract work for small business and working professionals.  • Met one-on-one with clients in exploring the best possible options for their web presence.  • Handled duties ranging from creative design to code implementation.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Firefox Firebug, Sublime Text Editor. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), UI (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    UI Web Technologies  HTML, HTML 5, XHTML, XSL, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, CSS,CSS3,Angular.JS 2.0, React.JS, Redux, Backbone.JS, Responsive Web design, Restfull API'S, UI Concept Modeling/Wire framing, D3, Grunt , NPM and Bower , Polymer, Node JS, SAAS, RWD, Typescript,GIMP, AngularJS, Knockout.JS, Bootstrap, Gulp,Redux, Ext.JS,Junkins.    IDE, HTML Editor Notepad++, Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio, Dreamweaver, sublime Text2.  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat 5.0.25, HTTP Web Server.  Database ORACLE, SQL SERVER, MYSQL.  Operating Systems Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP (Prof), Win 7, win 8.  Methodologies Agile, Rational Unified Process(RUP), UML.