Publisher Publisher Creative Consultant Brooklyn, NY I've been providing creative services to my clients for over twenty years. I work with businesses and individuals to help them increase revenue without losing track of their original mission or their moral compass. From branding and graphics to long term strategy, my goal is always to help make sense of constantly changing landscapes.     Throughout my career, I've focused on integrated marketing, which means that more important than my knowledge of any one platform or channel, I understand how everything fits together. I've built print campaigns alongside digital ones, managed in-store merchandising to coordinate with targeted b2b goals, and built comprehensive social strategies that coordinate with off-line advertising. And the results have been increased sales, higher store traffic, and greater valuations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Publisher QNY Press - Brooklyn, NY 2013 to Present • Published over 70 titles across multiple genres  • Increased sales by 200% in first year of operations  • Oversaw all aspects of operations including sales, marketing, branding, outreach, and publicity. Art Director MEIER - New York, NY January 2012 to December 2016 • Managed all aspects of marketing, including brand development, print and web advertising, and production of social campaigns and podcasts, resulting in significant traffic and exposure along with millions of dollars of revenue.  • Produced websites, podcasts, e-books, print books, and blogs for a wide range of clients from Tekserve to Viking Penguin and Trident Media.  • Managed a team of freelancers on all aspects of client work including photographers, publicists, coders, writers, and merchandisers.  • Drafted business plans, marketing plans, white papers, and strategies both for  in house projects and clients. Founding partner Graphyte Design LLC - New York, NY January 1999 to May 2012 • Co-Founded the agency, brought in business, and executed marketing strategy for a wide range of clients from Columbia University to Kind Snacks.  • Built multi-year relationships with clients from local retailers to Ivy League Universities  • Produced more than twenty-five websites along with hundreds of print pieces and identity packages, ranging from print books to annual reports. Web Developer BusinessWeek - New York, NY June 1998 to February 2000 • Working along side the Creative Director, I was responsible for converting the entire site (10,000+ pages) over to a new design format.  • Recoded every page of the Business Week website, moving them from frames to SSIs along with updating to the most recent HTML/CSS standards. Education Bachelor's in Japanese Studies Earlham College - Richmond, IN September 1993 to May 1998 Skills Photoshop (10+ years), Art Direction (10+ years), Indesign (10+ years), Graphic Design (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Book Design (7 years), Wordpress (7 years), ebook creation (7 years), Blogging (10+ years), Adobe, Publishing, Editorial, Content Creation (10+ years), Marketing Strategy, Google Analytics, Social Media Marketing, Customer Service Links http://www.btgoodwin.com