Web Developer/Owner (Freelance) <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Owner (Freelance) Web Developer/Owner (Freelance) - JFo Web Design Sarasota, FL Quick learner and self-motivator with the ability to work independently as well as collaboratively. Detail oriented with emphasis on the ability to toggle multiple projects, pro-actively solve problems, and deliver against tight deadlines in a fast pace environment while providing excellent support to clients and coworkers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer/Owner (Freelance) JFo Web Design - Sarasota, FL January 2004 to Present • Heading up a personal business designing and maintaining websites for small companies  • Specializing in WordPress Customization, Plugin Building, PHP, HTML, and CSS coding  • www.sarasotawebsite.com Cashier/Waitress/Hostess Siesta Key Beach Concession Stand - Sarasota, FL January 2019 to April 2019 Count money and make change, sell food and beverages to the public, mix cocktails daily (18-20 buckets each day), serve beer and wine (knowledge of basic bartending), keep food/inventory fully stocked throughout the day, prepare items for the next shifts, clean concessions areas. Provide excellent customer service to large groups of people in a fast-paced, detail oriented environment for up to12 hours straight. Established positive rapport with customers, up-sold products and built a loyal clientele. Willing and able to jump into multiple positions as needed to provide the best customer service and support to other team members. Business Strategist/Coordinator and Web Developer/Designer RSP USA/LiveLoveCostaRica.com/YourIPG.com - Sarasota, FL July 2018 to December 2018 Main Responsibilities:  • Lead business strategist and marketing developer for LiveLoveCostaRica.com and its Investor companion YourIPG.com.  • Beginning with LiveLoveCostaRica I lead a team of investors, partners, owners, and marketing strategists to define, develop, and implement the business model, brand, and online presence that would define their larger vision of a concierge international real estate investing firm (starting with Costa Rica, expanding through South America and into Europe).  • Worked with 10-15 owners and collaborators (in multiple countries); I organized and synthesized ideas to present and execute the most effective to ensure the success of this venture. I was especially tasked with the website and online marketing; however I coordinated all owner meetings and developing, presenting, and finalizing the business plan.  Secondary Responsibilities:  • Proactive business organization and management. Cross team collaboration and project management  • Work with in-house marketing department to develop print materials, email campaigns, landing pages, and ongoing website changes for an advertising agency focusing on Real Estate agents (RSP USA).  • Helped develop, code, and strategize RSP USA's new online web-store: an interactive portal for agents to create, track, and control all of their marketing materials.  Skills:  • Coordinate and run operation and strategy meetings.  • Interactive wire frames, mock ups, project management, team collaboration software and tactics.  • Coding with PHP and ASP Classic.  • Write and edit HTML, HTML5, and CSS3.  • Proficient in: JQuery, Bootstrap 3+, and Javascript.  • Create responsive website layouts across multiple browsers.  • Creating and optimizing landing pages.  • Hand-coding Responsive/Hybrid Emails with HTML and CSS that are display correctly across top email clients (browser and app based). Web Developer/Advertising Manager BulletProof Hitches/Invictus Holdings LLC - Sarasota, FL March 2018 to July 2018 • Maintenance and /or redesign of internal and client websites (average of 5 total at once). Including eCommerce sites.  • Responsible for adjusting shipping, pricing, and availability on WooCommerce site  • Online advertising for 3-4 sites/products using Google Ad Words, Facebook Ads, Amazon Advertising  • Maintain and monitor efficacy of online advertising including bi-monthly meetings with both Facebook and Google to optimize campaigns  • Increased CPA, CPM, Page Likes, ACoS while lowering overall cost across multiple channels.  • Track and report on sales across multiple channels (eBay, Amazon, WooCommerce, and Walmart) using multiple programs including Google Docs & Sellbrite  • Research on best practices, in-house inventory control, cross-channel inventory syncing, tracking, sales, and shipping.  • Analyze and track SEO rankings and best key words using SpyFu  • Implement Facebook, Google Analytics, and AdWords remarking pixels manually or with Google Tag Manager  • SEO all new or existing site and submit sitemaps to Google Webmaster Tools (also linking them to their analytics account) Web Developer (Contract) Dealers United - Sarasota, FL April 2017 to August 2017 • Worked with Facebook API, SDK's, GitHub, Laravel, and MySQL.  • Automated in-house Facebook Ad creation for many dealerships nationwide.  • Spearheaded the project alone until a larger team was brought onboard.  • Developed the original code that was used in more advanced stages of this project.  • Used the SCRUM method for development, Git for collaboration, and cloud hosting. Lead Web Developer Drive Digital Group, 66Digital - Sarasota, FL April 2015 to March 2017 • Brought on to create front-end, medium to large scale WordPress based sites for all new clients. This included planning and consulting with clients, recommending or building specialized plugins to meet their needs, design and brand consulting, full website development, testing for cross platform compatibility (including all mobile devices).  • Created several new custom WordPress base templates for our automotive clients with strong usage of dealer feeds, Edmunds and Evox API's, the REST API and building and testing ADF/XML formatted lead submissions.  • Helped train new team members, collaborated with them closely on new site builds as well as redesigns.  • Responsible for the design of many company products, including a full rebuild and re-branding for their main site and several key product specific websites. This included working with GitHub and multiple API integrations. Lead Web Developer Cactus Sky Digital - Sarasota, FL February 2014 to April 2015 • Built new WordPress websites (in house sites and for clients) based on current sites/brand.  • In house sites: Maintenance of all WordPress based company websites (around 12 sites on a regular basis) including website hosting related issues and changes (DNS, cPanel work, etc)  • WordPress theme and plugin customization; transition older websites to updated WordPress sites; PHP customizations and MySQL views, storage, etc.  • For clients: Full process for new sites (proposals, wire-frames, site-map, development site, design new sites, creative design, content management, testing, changes as needed by client, deployment to live site, testing, changes, and training) & maintenance of existing site (content changes, graphics, etc.).  • General website up-keep and improvement including: Google Analytics integration, SEO, graphic design (including video).  • Email Advertising: Designed and coded mobile-friendly email templates and landing pages for over 40 different clients and campaign types (including automotive specials and general advertising). Utilized Litmus to test cross browser and device compatibility.  • General graphic design work for various aspects of the company including websites, email campaigns, client's needs, and more; using Photoshop and Illustrator. Media Buyer AdRelevancy.com - Tampa, FL December 2009 to January 2010 • Responsible for purchasing display advertising space online  • Research and analysis current campaigns and competition to replicate success while exploring new avenues for effective conversions  • Heavy emphasis on contact with publishers. Ability to negotiate terms and credit for the company.  • Provide performance indicators daily for assist with market driven data decisions Media Campaign Administrator Clickbooth, Inc - Sarasota, FL January 2009 to October 2009 • Created and managed online media campaigns for the state's top Internet advertising company.  • Built and maintained excellent rapport and lasting relationships with clients while assisting them in the creation and maintenance of their accounts with Clickbooth.  • Worked heavily in HTML coding, Excel, Photoshop, and DirecTrack.  • Liaison between advertising and publishing departments to promote campaigns including  providing internal support to the Affiliate Managers. Direct Pay Lead OSI Restaurant Partners - Tampa, FL July 2006 to July 2007 • Began as an accounts payable clerk where I was responsible for coding, manually entering and posting invoices for over 50 restaurants  • After six months promoted to direct pay lead where I was responsible for the calculating, coding, posting and verification for all Direct-Pay vendors' invoices  • Main support contact between Direct-Pay vendors and restaurants including dispute resolution, research requests & maintaining long term customer relationships.  • Assist in the development of best practices for the position that was created with my assistance  • Maintain source documents  • Prepare reports and special analysis for upper management Education Bachelors of Arts in History University of South Florida - Tampa, FL January 2001 to January 2005 Skills PHP (10+ years), API (2 years), XML (2 years), PHOTOSHOP (10+ years), Wordpress (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Email Marketing (5 years), Bootstrap (5 years), Adobe (5 years), Facebook Ads (2 years), Google Adwords (3 years), Google Analytics (6 years), Google Docs (5 years), Google Webmaster Tools (5 years), cPanel/WHM (6 years), FRONT END (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), MySQL (6 years), Javascript, Git (2 years), jQuery (2 years), HTML 5, ASP, User Experience Design (10+ years), User Interface Design (10+ years) Links http://jessicastutsman.com/ http://github.com/jessicastutsman Additional Information SKILLS  Front End: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, ES6, PhpStorm, Adobe Creative Suite  (Dreamweaver & Photoshop mostly), NPM, Bower, Gulp, Grunt, Composer, Homebrew, JSON    Back End: Laravel, VMs, Composer, XAMPP, WAMP, WordPress, Blade Templates, PHP, RESTful API,  Evox, API, Facebook API & SDK, Edmunds API, Multiple Dealership CRMs, ADF/XML, MySQL, WHM/  cPanel, AJAX, FormStack, Contact Form 7, Gravity Form, Customize WordPress plugins    Others: Git, Command Line, GitHub, AWS, BrowserStack, Litmus, Video Editing (Adobe Software), Agile,  Scrum, Google AdWords, Facebook Ads, Amazon Seller, Amazon Adversing, eBay, Walmart Seller, GTM,  Analytics, Goggle Webmaster Tools, Spyfu, Sellbrite    PORTFOLIO  http://jessicastutsman.com/portfolio