Founder / AWS Serverless Full Stack Developer Founder / AWS Serverless Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Founder / AWS Serverless Full Stack Developer - AWSCertified.Directory Los Angeles, CA ? 10+ years full stack experience developing web applications. 6+ years AWS experience. 5x AWS Certified.  ? Fun and innovative person to work with. Always researching new AWS technologies and how they can help  an organization grow.  ? Customer obsessed Solutions Architect that is dedicated to digging deep, thinking big, and delivering results.    ? Work Experience Founder / AWS Serverless Full Stack Developer AWSCertified.Directory - Los Angeles, CA January 2019 to Present AWS Serverless Full Stack Developer using:  ? AWS Amplify, API Gateway, Certificate Manager, CloudFormation, CloudFront, CloudWatch, CodeBuild, CodeCommit, CodePipeline, Cognito, Draft.js, DynamoDB, Facebook SDK, Google Maps API, IAM, Lambda,  Login With Amazon, Node.js, Pinpoint, React.js, Rekognition, Route 53, Serverless Framework, SES, SNS, Stripe, S3, Transcode, and Transcribe AWS Full Stack Web Developer Spot Revolution, Inc - Los Angeles, CA November 2017 to August 2019 ? Developed a proof of concept AWS serverless application and presented to investors.  ? Created a live streaming service using AWS MediaLive, MediaPackage, and CloudFront.  ? Configured an AWS organization with one parent "paying account" and multiple child organizational unit (OU) accounts to separate and secure access and accountability of AWS resources within each OU account. AWS Full Stack Web Developer Wolfsdorf Rosenthal LLP - Santa Monica, CA October 2016 to November 2017 ? Advisor for the LLP Managing Partner regarding the best methods for using AWS.  ? Migrated in-house data to S3 and Glacier using Snowball.  ? Developed web presence from the ground up using AWS EC2, CloudFront, S3, Route 53, RDS, Cloud9, ELB, Auto Scaling, Certificate Manager, VPC, CloudFormation, CloudWatch, SNS, and more.  ? Trained members of the organization and assisted team members.  ? Served as a technical liaison between internet and phone service providers. AWS Full Stack Web Developer BSC Management, Inc. - Los Angeles, CA September 2014 to October 2016 ? Developed web applications for the company's multiple clients using Meteor, AWS EC2, CloudFront, S3, Route 53, RDS, Cloud9, ELB, Auto Scaling, Certificate Manager, VPC, CloudFormation, CloudWatch, SNS,  and more.  ? Collaborate with members of the operations team to expand and customize application development and infrastructure considerations on an as-needed basis.  ? Participated with other staff to aid in the design and implementation of new technical initiatives that improve efficiency of communications and operations. Video Producer Brody Jenner Productions - Beverly Hills, CA May 2014 to November 2014 ? Filmed and edited The Brody Jenner Show with regular hosts Brody Jenner and Dr. Mike Dow along with weekly celebrity guests. You can see videos at www.BrodyJennerShow.com or https://www.youtube.com/user/brodyjennershow PHP Web Developer engage:BDR - West Hollywood, CA February 2013 to July 2014 ? Developed and maintained over 100 ecommerce websites that integrated APIs with payment gateways and online marketing services for recurrent subscription purchases in different countries and currencies.  ? Converted existing websites to responsive sites that rendered properly on mobile and tablet devices.  ? Developed a live secure video streaming service to provide realtime video streaming content to clients.  ? Developed high traffic websites for celebrity bloggers with a primary focus on clickability and viewable ad impressions.  ? Developed an in-house online system that dynamically maintained data for our multiple ecommerce sites including price, currency, campaign and shipping IDs, affiliate IDs, and basically any other data that needed to be managed and constantly updated on our multiple live-running ecommerce websites.  ? Developed a dynamic script that automated the task of reprocessing declined orders that have been submitted to our ecommerce websites. Before my developments this was a manual task that was performed  daily. Full Stack Developer Cardone Training Technologies, Inc. - Beverly Hills, CA May 2012 to February 2013 ? Produced daily marketing videos for websites including MSNBC, Ricki Lake, Huffington Post, etc.  ? Managed the daily blog and ecommerce website for a New York Times Bestselling Author using magento and WordPress.    Cardone Training Technologies, Inc. develops visual and audio products geared towards enhancing individuals and corporations through sales training.    Grant Cardone is an international sales expert, motivational speaker, and New York Times bestselling author. He is a regular contributor on Fox & Friends, The Ricki Lake Show, and has also been covered on CNBC, CNN, the Wall Street Journal, Huffington Post, Entrepreneur.com and over 600 radio shows nationwide. Application Developer TriSynergy Media LLC - Lake Oswego, OR November 2009 to May 2012 ? Assisted with SEO, design, and development of several websites focussing on local dental practice.  ? Managed several facebook campaigns that quickly generated over 25K fans.  ? Developed a facebook application that allowed clients to request dental appointments directly from our facebook fan page.  ? Videotaped and edited patient testimonials for the website.  ? Succeeded in ranking first page for search terms related to the doctor's practice.  ? Lead the engineering team developing a video concatenation engine that took segments of separate videos (data included patient's names, days of week, times, and custom message) and dynamically created  personalized videos that could be delivered to patients as doctor appointment reminders and post-op instructions. Application Developer NetBiz Inc. - Tigard, OR November 2007 to November 2009 ? Managed SEO, design, and development of several websites for marketing company using PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript Skills Data migration, Marketing, Concept design, Node, React, Nodejs, Jquery, Javascript, Cloud Computing, AWS Links https://AWSCertified.Directory https://AWSTranscribe.me Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner January 2019 to January 2022 AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate March 2017 to March 2020 AWS Certified Developer - Associate April 2017 to April 2020 AWS Certified SysOps Administrator - Associate January 2019 to January 2022 AWS Certified Security - Specialty August 2019 to July 2022 Assessments Verbal Communication — Highly Proficient August 2019 Speaking clearly, correctly, and concisely. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8cwlibpdsvtlkdur Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills: AWS, proof of concept design, investor presentation, sales, marketing, application/infrastructure development, network/data migration, excellent verbal/written communication