Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Lakeland, FL A technically savvy Full Stack Developer based in Lakeland, Florida with a strong technical skill-set. I obtained my Bachelors of Science Degree in Web Design & Development from Full Sail University. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Developer Orlando Marketers - Orlando, FL July 2018 to Present Development of responsive websites from scratch.  Development of custom WordPress themes & plugins.  Providing website maintenance.  Perform debugging and optimization.  Managed multiple projects from research and planning to deployment.  Applied TDD into the workflow.  Server Setup and Development of client websites.  Setup conversion tracking.  Handle of all code reviews.  Directly work with clients.  Technologies: PHP, JavaScript, CSS, WordPress, MySQL, Git, HTML, SCSS, Laravel, Vue.js, PHPUnit Full Stack Developer SLING ADS - Lakeland, FL December 2016 to Present Experience with Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture, design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD).  Developing of responsive websites from scratch.  Build various applications using Laravel.  Worked with API’s to connect third-party software to exchange data.  Writing cross-browser compliant HTML, CSS & JavaScript.  Developed and coded all front-end and back-end structures.  Version control.  Solid understanding of Object Oriented Programming.  MySQL profiling and query optimization.  Applied TDD (PHPUnit, PHPSpec)  Technologies: HTML, PHP, JavaScript, CSS, Sass, WordPress, Laravel 5, MySQL, Git, Grunt, Webpack, SCSS Web Developer UF RESOURCES - Sarasota, FL September 2016 to December 2016 Created websites/user interface from provided design concepts by using various technologies.  Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms, links and cross-browser compatibility.  Fixing problems encountered in the functioning of the websites.  Developed company websites with WordPress.  Utilized Open Source Software such as PHP, MySQL, WordPress.  Technologies: PHP, JavaScript, CSS, WordPress, MySQL, Git, HTML, MySQL, SCSS Web Developer Grand Incentives - Sarasota, FL June 2015 to September 2016 Demonstrated the ability to work diligently under pressure to meet deadlines.  Developing of responsive websites from scratch, custom WordPress themes & plugins.   Developed and customized the company websites  Development of responsive email templates from scratch.  Fixed bugs from existing websites and implemented enhancements that significantly improved web functionally and speed.  Quality Assurance Testing. Education Bachelor's of Science in Web Design & Development Full Sail University February 2014 to August 2017 High School Diploma Penn Foster High School Skills PHP (4 years), HTML5 (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), Javascript (3 years), MySQL (4 years), Bootstrap (3 years), Laravel (3 years), jQuery (3 years), Vue.js (1 year), WordPress (4 years), React (1 year), SCSS (3 years), Bulma (1 year), MVC (3 years), Grunt (2 years), Version Control (3 years), Node, SQL, Google Analytics (2 years) Links http://www.netlyfe.com https://github.com/kdbaustert Additional Information Worked with many agencies as a remote freelance developer.