Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Corona, CA Work Experience Web Developer Auld Tennis Academy - Corona, CA February 2018 to Present • Maintain and updates content using Wix CMS.    • Complete responsive site and look.    • JavaScript implementation for certain functionalities.    • Mysql database usage and queries used to save new client information.    • In charge of social media and marketing venues. Full Stack Developer /Professional Assist Corp Golden, CO February 2018 to November 2018 • High use of AWS services to run as a serverless application.    • Constant use of Drupal and PHP for content management and responsive design.    • MySQL database usage to store and save client information in collaboration with Abila.    • Newer projects used Node.js, Javascript, Angular 4, and Bootstrap for a modern look and functionality.    • Consistent work in a fast paced, Agile environment with other developers and architects.    • Multiple experiences as a Q.A. developer whenever a new product was launched.    • Contained and managed four different sites. Vue.js Developer MetroBTM - Denver, CO October 2017 to February 2018 • Use node.js application built using Vue.js as the front-end framework.    • Architect, Develop and deploy a kiosk interface delivered as an electron application utilizing HTML5 and CSS3.    • Coordinate with concurrent backend API's and kiosk hardware development.    • Application uses Javascript as the main coding language.    • Collaboration within team using Gitlab updates/revisions.    • Use of Linux operating system. Freelance Web Developer Atwood Family Dentistry - Placentia, CA August 2017 to September 2017 • Independently constructed Single Page Application(SPA) from bottom up using HTML, CSS, and jQuery as the primary coding language.    • Programmed website to be responsive on multiple devices such as laptops, tablets, and smart phones.    • Implemented cross-browser functionality allowing for more user friendly and visually pleasing website.    • Incorporated jQuery solution to website that allows transitions between English and Spanish text.    • Deployed website using AWS(Amazon Web Services) instance that provides IPv4 address that connects to a domain to view the site.    • Facilitate continued maintenance and development of bug fixes and patch sets for existing web applications. iOS Developer LitNerd Comics - Los Angeles, CA April 2017 to September 2017 • Project is written in Swift 3.0 using Xcode.    • Implemented AlamoFire so RESTful API Data can display faster on app.    • Established compatibility with third party software products by developing program for modification and integration.    • Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.    • Provided continued maintenance and development of bug fixes and patch sets for existing web applications.    • Initialized secure MongoDB back-end that stores username and password.    • CoreData integration that allows users to save favorite comic books.    • Wrote maintainable and extensible code in a team environment. Skills Django, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Vue.js, Php, Python, Flask, Swift, Html5, Sql, Mongodb, Ajax, jquery, Photoshop, Adobe photoshop, Microsoft office Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/joed-brandon-lara-056902a6 http://www.joedlara.com https://github.com/joedlara