Web Application Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Application Developer • 8 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development and testing of various commercial applications with involvement in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in domains Oil & Gas, Health Care, EPC.  • Designed web/mobile applications using Angular 2, Sencha Ext JS 3.3/ 4.2/ 6.2, Sencha Touch 2.4, PHP, JAVA, JavaScript, HTML.  • Experience with Drupal Content Management System, including Drupal module installation, theming, customizing Drupal systems, including both Drupal 7 and Drupal 8.  • Experience in packaging Sencha/Ext JS applications using Cordova to distribute mobile apps for cross platforms (iOS, Android).  • Deep understanding of UI technologies and techniques that include Sencha (Ext JS, Touch), JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS3.  • Proficient with tools like PHP Storm, Eclipse, HeidiSQL, IBM Data Studio 2.2, IBM DB2, Edit plus 2.0, Notepad++.  • Experience in developing systems built on MySQL, PostgreSQL, writing SQL procedures, table designing, creating scheduled Jobs and Alerts. Layout and maintenance of database including requirement analysis, design, data conversion, data loading, testing and implementation.  • Experience with AJAX, REST and JSON which includes sending AJAX request from the client side and use REST APIs to process the request and communicate with the database and send back the JSON output to the client.  • Worked in close co-ordination with the Clients to organize weekly meetings and constantly upgrading the product according to the functional and business requirements.  • Have been working in agile environment consisting of Project Iterations, 2-3 weeks long Sprint Cycles, daily stand-up meetings, code reviews.  • Experience using Git, Subversion for version control. Used Jira for tracking project schedules and Gerrit for code reviews.  • Highly motivated team player with excellent communication, presentation and interpersonal skills, always willing to work in challenging and cross-platform environment. Work Experience Web Application Developer SWEARINGEN SOFTWARE INC - Houston, TX October 2014 to June 2015 Project: RIS - Radiology Information System.  Radiology Information System (RIS) is a web-based system that allows Patient Management, Scheduling, Transcription, Radiologist Sign-Off, Mammography, Personnel Manager, Equipment Management, Standard Procedures, Management Reporting, HL7 interfaces and more.    Responsibilities:  • Developing applications using Sencha Ext JS 4.2, PHP, AJAX, MySQL, Web Services.  • Collected and processed quantitative and qualitative data analysis.  • Performed Unit Testing and User Acceptance Testing and documented detailed defects.  • Used Ext JS for client side scripting, Ajax Controls and CSS to give richness for GUI.  • Responsible for requirements gathering, analysis, detailed process flow design, user acceptance testing and rollout of new & modified feature functionality.  • Implemented Query Optimization to increase the performance of the Report.  • Deploying and Publishing the application in Linux and debugging the production issues.  • Using Team Foundation Server for version control of development code.  • Interacted with users for verifying user requirements, managing Change Control Process, updating existing documentation. Web Application Developer INTECSEA INC., Worley Parsons Group - Houston, TX March 2012 to September 2014 Web Application Developer UR International, Inc - Houston, TX August 2010 to February 2012 Project: Office of the Inspector General Case Management System    Office of the Inspector General (OIG) is responsible for investigating cases of suspected prisoners and workers involved in fraud and abuse. The system employs numerous workflow rules to guide the movement of a case from the OIG's Support department through to Investigations and finally to Prosecution. At every step along the way, employees can record notes, create tasks, assign tasks to others, create emails and generate follow-up actions.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on end to end flow which includes creating of JSP pages that includes custom JSF tags and  • Worked on end to end flow which includes creating of JSP pages that includes custom JSF tags and Set the navigation rules.  • Design and development of the system using J2SE 6.0.  • A created backing bean that handles the functions associated with the components.  • Created Stateless session beans, Entity beans.  • Created queries and stored procedure for accessing db2 database system based on the requirements.  • Created Crystal reports for different cases and Integrated crystal reports with the application. Education certification University of Texas at Dallas - Richardson, TX 2010 Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Acharya Nagarjuna University - Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh 2007 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, CONTENT MANAGEMENT, Git, GUI, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, SCRIPTING, XML, CSS, IIS, TOMCAT, DB2, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, SQL, SENCHA, SENCHA TOUCH, ECLIPSE Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages: JAVA, SQL, HTML, XML  Scripting Languages: PHP 5.6/7 .0, JavaScript, CSS  Frameworks: Drupal 7/8, Helix, Angular 2, Sencha Ext JS 3.3/ 4.2/ 6.2, Sencha Touch 2.4  Application Servers: Zend Server, WAMP, XAMPP, JBoss 4.2, Apache Tomcat 5.5, IIS  GUI: Eclipse, PHP Storm, Visual Studio, Edit Plus 2.0  Databases: MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, IBM DB2.  Reporting: Crystal Reports, PHPExcel, TCPDF  Operating Systems: Debian 7, Red hat Linux 7.5, Windows 9x/NT/2000/XP    Professional Expertise    National Oil Well Varco, Houston, TX Feb 2018 - Present PHP/Drupal Developer    Project: NOVOS open controls system.    NOVOS(TM) is a simple-to-install process-automation platform that helps the driller to step back from the repetitive complexities of machine and process control. The system serves as a link between the two activities to ease the burden on the driller, resulting in safer and more efficient well construction.    Responsibilities:  • Maintain and support existing applications built on the Drupal 7 and 8 platform ensuring site availability.  • Custom Drupal module development/ extend existing module functionality.  • Engage in incident management, problem solving and solution implementation.  • Contributing ideas and efforts towards internal projects and working as part of a team to find solutions on various problems.  • Design and develop new web applications, forms, content management workflows leveraging Drupal.  • Worked extensively on features module in Drupal7 and Configuration Synchronization in Drupal 8 to export and import configuration changes between different drupal installations.  • Identify and report risks, issues, and dependencies of assigned tasks/projects.  • Monitor and perform regular site maintenance activities.  • Maintained the version controls for test/production deployment code using Git.  • Communicate technical ideas to business users and other teams (design, QA).    JDCOMMERCE INC., Houston, TX Jun 2015 - Jan 2018  Web / Mobile Application Developer