Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> San Francisco Bay Area, CA I'm a professional Full Stack Web Developer with over 3 years of work experience. Goal-oriented, results-driven, fast and dedicated learner with a newfound passion for teaching. Thrilled by all things Web, in love with JavaScript and its wonderful ecosystem. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Yellow Leaf Technologies - Ivano-Frankivsk August 2016 to July 2019 • PROJECT NAME: NDA (Mar 2018 - May 2019)  Application provides abundance of fresh customized recommendations, relying on a lot of external data. It can be divided into 2 parts - providers (companies) and consumers (users). My focus was the users part. I was responsible for developing and monitoring cron jobs that retrieve data from multiple sources (public and private APIs, html pages, pdf reports etc), and modules that process it, feeding reliable data to the frontend, making sure integrity of content is kept and the breakages are handled. I wrote a custom testing utility that helped testing and modifying parsing algorithms that were often breaking due to dynamic nature of the content. Also took part in developing users' UI components and covering most important ones with tests, ensuring that the proper content is displayed according to user roles.    • PROJECT NAME: Promshyna (May 2017- Mar 2018)  Promshyna is large importer and distributor of tires for various types of machinery. We took existing project and completely rebuilt its backend and frontend. I refactored a lot of PHP code, using the latest best features and practices of the language (Object Oriented design, PDO, composer packages), improved existing and added new functionalities to search pages according to customer's wishes. On the frontend, structured JavaScript functions into logical, reusable modules, following D.R.Y. principles, fixed cross-compatibility issues, improved website performance and loading time.    • PROJECT NAME: Blaustrom (Aug 2016 - May 2017)  Blaustrom is internet service for selecting, configuring and installing solar power stations. On the frontend was responsible for turning PSD templates into standards-compliant, responsive HTML pages, developed configurator page that handles counting the budget for a service in advance, taking into consideration all the details. On backend, developed controllers that validate and process submitted data, integrated payment system, implemented visits statistics in the admin dashboard. We were working within tight deadlines, but we were able to deliver on time, often working overtime hours to satisfy customer needs. Junior Web Developer Precarpathian National University - Ivano-Frankivsk February 2016 to August 2016 • PROJECT NAME: Distance Learning Platform (d-learn.pnu.if.ua)  Developed view and functionalities for the tutor dashboard, using AJAX to retrieve data from the database – students autocomplete, filter, drag & drop into groups etc. Fixed previously broken notification system and UI bugs it produced. Also was working on Test Wizard section, implemented score counting system. Education Bachelor's in History Precarpathian National University - Ivano-Frankivsk September 2009 to July 2013 Skills HTML 5 (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), Javascript (4 years), PHP (4 years), MySQL (4 years), JQuery (4 years), Node (3 years), Express (3 years), React (3 years), Redux (3 years), Gulp (2 years), Bootstrap (3 years), Sass (3 years), Laravel (2 years), Yii (2 years), ES6 (3 years), Pug (2 years), Python (2 years), Django (2 years), MongoDB (2 years), Firebase (1 year), Webpack (2 years), Nodejs (2 years) Links http://github.com/getMaxed http://getmaxed.io http://linkedin.com/in/max-astapenko