Junior Web Developer Junior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> elioye27@gmail.com Lake Elsinore, CA Motivated professional with broad technical skill set. Ability to communicate effectively and experienced in interpreting and implementing client and staff visions of new websites. Ability to multitask, goal-oriented and ability to work under pressure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior Web Developer Informa Research Services - Calabasas, CA December 2018 to Present Responsible for designing, developing, delivering and implementing data-driven desktop and Web applications for the various departments within the company. Assisting in the development and maintenance of company Web applications (Internet and Intranet) using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and framework such as React. Additional responsibilities include:    • Designing applications for hand-held and tablet computers.  • Responsible for all database transactions using MySQL and MongoDB.  • Helped to create the API that received the data for the reporting data. Freelance Web Designer/ Developer various clients - Van Nuys, CA September 2017 to Present Developed application for DJ and Baking services and created database for maintaining/tracking dates, events, orders, expenses, invoices and receipts for clients. Freelance Web Designer/ Developer - various clients Trinity International Christian Center - Chatsworth, CA June 2016 to Present Developed secured web application and back-end database to automate confidential data for the church.     Maintaining and updating the website from time to time. Education Certification in Web Development and programming. UCLA Coding Bootcamp - Westwood, CA August 2017 to February 2018 Coursework in Structured Programming and Data Structures DeVry University - Sherman Oaks, CA March 2017 to May 2017 BS in Finance California State University, Northridge - Northridge, CA 2004 to 2006 Skills Programming Language: JavaScript, Jquery, HTML5, CSS3 (Less than 1 year), Other skills/Frameworks: WordPress, Github, Heroku deployment, Bootstrap, API integration, AJAX, Firebase, Node.js, Advance JavaScript, ES6, Express.js, Handlebars.js, ORMs, Sequelize, MongoDB, Web Scraping, Mongoose ORM, React.js, Mobile Mayhem and React Native. (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office. Proficient in Execel and Access (10+ years), Javascript Links https://portfolio-11cf0.firebaseapp.com/index.html http://www.dj-eli.com https://ticc-us.org/ Certifications/Licenses Full Stack Developer Certificate Additional Information Other Non-programming Skills:  Proficient in Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint and Outlook.  Skilled with Pivot Tables, V and H lookups and Formulas.     Professional Qualifications:  Strong leadership skills   Excellent presentation and organizational skills   Knowledge of project management and data base management   Ability to communicate effectively   Great analytical and problem solving skills   Excellent business writing skills   Goal-oriented and ability to work under pressure