Web Developer, Web Developers <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developers</span> Web Developer, Web Developers - Jax Florida Internet Marketing Jacksonville, FL I seek a dynamic, results-oriented position in a corporation with a strong track record of performance in turnaround, and high-paced organizations. The skills I have garnered over the years will enable me to utilize my keen analysis/insights practices to provide a team approach for the purpose of driving organizational improvements, and implementation of the best practices. Finally, my superior interpersonal skills make me the perfect candidate who is capable of resolving multiple, and complex issues independently.    Michael E. Shaw  11325 N Main St Lot 25  Jacksonville, FL 32218  Phone: 904-419-7214  Cell: 904-609-2145  Fax Number: 904-410-8044  affordablemarketing@rocketmail.com    Abilities Summary  Several years in the finance industry, both collections and finance. Skilled in the foodservice industry as a server and cook. Some light industrial, such as painting, and landscaping plus a brief stint in retail working for Dillard's as a sales associate. Additionally, I offer a wide range of computer services, based on my familiarity with hardware and software applications, thus making the removal of viruses, spam, Trojan horses, and spyware effortless. Furthermore, I am a self-taught freelance web designer with a current web site where I also perform search engine optimization to a professional level, computer tutorials, and a resume writing service. Work Experience Web Developer, Web Developers Jax Florida Internet Marketing - Jacksonville, FL November 2008 to Present As the sole proprietor at Jax Florida Internet Marketing, I am a self-employed web site designer where I offer a suite of services. As a fictitious entity we specialize in Wordpress web site design, but we also perform computer repair, virus removal, PC tutorials, social media marketing, search engine optimization, and on line classified ad placement. Bill Collector, Bill and Account Collectors Professional Debt Mediation - Jacksonville, FL June 2007 to November 2008 PDM, or Professional Debt Mediation is a collection agency consisting of nearly thirty associates divided into group according to the particular client they are assigned. My position involved researching the whereabouts of delinquent clients, and professionally coercing them to pay past due balances on accounts such as primarily payday loans. However, I also handled broken apartment lease contracts, and various other smaller clients such as medical, and retail delinquencies.    Food Preparation and Serving Related Workers, All, Food Preparation Workers Northlake Foods, Inc. dba Waffle House - Jacksonville, FL August 2000 to May 2007 During my tenure at North lake Foods, I prepared and served menu items as a Waffle House employee. At the time, the restaurant operated as a franchise, but later the franchisee went out of business, and several locations subsequently closed their doors. Education Masters in Psychology University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ May 2019 to Present Bachelors in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ October 2015 to July 2018 Associates Degree in information Technology/ Web Design University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ October 2012 to October 2015 High School Diploma Sandalwood High School - Jacksonville, FL August 1981 to June 1987 Skills Wordpress, HTML5, Javascript Assessments Social Media — Familiar June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create content, communicate online, and build a brand's reputation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xk3a5yrujcj1bpjx Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nzcmfjx05agfkspp Teamwork: Interpersonal Skills — Completed June 2019 Resolving disputes, solving team problems, and understanding nonverbal cues. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qbce08maonc-l703 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.