Teacher/Technical Supervisor Teacher/Technical Supervisor Programmer - Writer - Educator Grand Forks, ND Teacher/Programmer with a multifaceted background in education, programming, and non-profit work. 10+ years as a fulltime programmer, 8 years as a fulltime 7-12 educator, 20+ years as a part-time minister, freelance programmer, and writer. Possess a M.A. in History and experience in PHP, SQL, HTML, CSS, Adobe and MS packages, and audio DAW software. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Teacher/Technical Supervisor Trinity Christian School March 2011 to Present ·        Taught 7-12 Technology / Programming Classes  ·        Taught 7-12 Biblical History and Life Application  ·        Languages taught: HTML, CSS, PHP, SQL, Python, C++, JS  ·        Developed Curriculum for classes  ·        Managed technology needs for Prek-12th Grade School  ·        Networking, Desktop Trouble Shooting, WebSite development (Wordpress Customization), PowerSchool Administration, Google Services Admin, Hardware replacement, Audio/Visual, etc Missionary Associate Yerevean - AM March 2009 to December 2010 ·        Assisted Local Churches with Music Ministry (Organization and Training)  ·        Led Small Group studies  ·        Volunteered in Special Needs Orphanage Web Programmer University of North Dakota - University Relations May 2006 to March 2009 ·         Web Developer and Programmer for various Departments  ·        Early work was in HTML, Flash, Perl  ·        Last six years was in PHP, SQL, CFML, and some JS  ·        Trained / Tutored Faculty/Staff   ·        Was the lead backend programmer for the main University website for the last three years Webmaster Regional Weather Information Center May 2003 to May 2006 Developed main web presence and multimedia content for the RWIC facility.  Developed interacted Flash solutions for research staff to monitor offsite  research projects involving multiple live data streams. Extensive PHP  programming, including SQL integration for security, dynamic page generation, and the online Surface Transportation Library. Streaming audio/video data  development for research Web Developer University of North Dakota - University Relations January 1997 to May 2003 Developed webpages and multimedia content with emerging technologies.  Trained faculty and staff in Internet technologies. Perl programming. Flash  Development. Various HelpDesk-type services - computer installation,  software troubleshooting, etc. Education Master of Arts in History University of North Dakota - Grand Forks, ND 2009 Bachelor of Arts in History University of North Dakota - Grand Forks, ND 2000 Skills FLASH (9 years), PERL (6 years), PHP (5 years), SQL (3 years), ADOBE PHOTOSHOP (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS PHP SQL PERL/CGI CSS HTML  ColdFusion Adobe Photoshop/Premiere Flash