Freelancer Freelancer Fresno, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelancer Fresno, CA April 2017 to Present Web development, mobile app development, data entry. Administrative Assistant MGI, Inc - Denver, CO July 2015 to December 2016 Human resource administration, interview & hire employees, maintain employee files. Create and edit inventory data, packages, transfer manifests, invoices, expense receipts, coupon  monitoring/discount reports. Monitor compliance regulations and implement changes. Created  compliance & MSDS binders for 2 cultivation facilities and 2 retail stores. Primary software  used: Adilas, Metrc, Asana. Software Receive Call Agent Manpower Group - Boulder, CO April 2015 to August 2015 Analyzed information provided by customers and routed them to proper technical group. Web Developer SmithMicro Software - Watsonville, CA March 2013 to December 2014 Maintained and developed internal and external websites and applications using Perl, PHP,  HTML5, Javascript, CSS3, Python, SQL, J Query, AJAX, SVN, UX/UI. Worked on developing  product microsites, as well as updating and maintaining internal systems related to serial  number generation & activation/deactivation and online product delivery. Impress Associate OfficeMax - Santa Cruz, CA June 2012 to March 2013 Assisted Customers and completed projects within copy center of office supply retail store. Web Developer ClickAway Corporation - Campbell, CA May 2011 to September 2011 Built online internet application for tracking employee hours, tasks, etc. Used primarily PHP,  J Query, Javascript, MySQL, CSS, AJAX. Updated/added features to other sites as needed. Owner/Admin California Hydroponics - Santa Cruz, CA February 2006 to October 2010 Owned and operated hydroponic retail store with 2 locations and 8 employees. Educated  customers about products. Managed financial records using Quickbooks Financial and  Quickbooks POS. Payroll, bookkeeping, accounts receivable, accounts payable, inventory  management, product ordering. Built relationships with industry vendors. Web Developer Web Network Billing - Houston, TX May 2003 to February 2006 Developed and maintained five separate E-Commerce websites using OsCommerce.  Responded to customer emails. Entered and edited inventory data. Maintained websites using  HTML, PHP, MySQL, CSS, and Javascript. COBOL Programmer Universal Computer Systems - Houston, TX October 2002 to May 2003 Maintained and improved programs written in COBOL for the automobile industry. Self-tested  all code and tracked changes through version control software. Education B.S. in Computer Information Systems University of Houston - Houston, TX 2001 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/michelle0927 Certifications/Licenses Certificate of Completion OPC Advanced Metrc Training May 2016 Certificate of Completion RMC/MMC Advanced Metrc Training May 2016 Course Completion Certificate - Become a WordPress Developer: Unlocking Power With Code August 2019 to Present Certificate of successful completion of 27 hours of Udemy course, Become a WordPress Developer: Unlocking Power With Code.  https://www.udemy.com/certificate/UC-0DXPU706/