Senior Software Developer Senior Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Liberty Mutual Investments Work Experience Senior Software Developer Liberty Mutual Investments - Boston, MA April 2017 to Present • Created a WCF REST web service to query AD and provide various endpoint functionality such as employee ID lookup, smart name search, smart group search which can be leveraged by any applications in our environment.  • Created an AD Dashboard application to consume various endpoints in the aforementioned web service. This allows all members of the organization to lookup employees by smart search on names or ID numbers. It also displays group information, user groups and download functionality with a close eye on UX design.  • Created an Outlook Addon using React and NodeJS to allow users to dynamically look up ticker information and insert data into emails. This removed the manual step of querying the database and copying and pasting this info into new emails.  • Developed and maintained multiple full stack MVC web applications, with a focus on superior usability (UX). Automated processes and provide self-service administration via web applications and other tools.  • Developed a web application to get all users connected to our production databases and display their info in a grid, allowing the application user to select and send automated emails, removing the need for manual lookups and sending of emails  • Enhanced and supported our IRS reporting process (over 1200 reports run each month end + additional cycles).  • Member of an agile team of developers leveraging Jira, Confluence and BitBucket tools. Led the change from TFS to Bitbucket. Senior Web Developer Cognex - Natick, MA June 2014 to April 2017 • Develop dynamic, data-driven web applications using C#, MVC, JQuery, Bootstrap, Sass, ASP.Net 4.0 and 4.5 with a Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle backend. Juggle multiple web applications, both new development and maintenance and support of existing applications.  • Worked on an agile scrum team developing the MyCognex dashboard portal.  • Developed a web application to allow editing, adding and deleting of sales commissions by order number. This application is written using the MVC 4 framework.  • Created new functionality for our Partner Portal to allow viewing and editing all products in our catalog as well as promo codes and discounts.  • Continued maintenance and enhancement of our Partner Portal to develop new features requested by our partners and end users and refine existing functionality  • Participated in the upgrade of our Mediachase framework to the current version of EpiServer Senior Web Developer Staples, Inc - Framingham, MA October 2011 to June 2014 • Develop dynamic, data-driven, web applications while also juggling smaller projects such as landing pages and microsites for staples.com. I interface with business partners and UX designers to coordinate the design, development and testing of projects.  • Co-developed the Staples Tech Services Portal with two teammates. This automation allows our business partners to create and update content without the intervention of development.  • Co-developed the Staples Help Center, rewriting the structure and functionality behind the center's navigation and faq pages.  • Developed and launched a microsite featuring Staples' new product Staples Connect as the sole developer on an extremely aggressive timeline. This site will be leveraged to generate interest in our new product.  • Working alongside a UX designer, I also created several responsive design templates for reuse by the Staples Creative Agency to quickly create weekly landing pages. These templates have been tested on mobile devices including windows and apple phones and tablets, as well as various desktop viewports. Programmer/Analyst IV Massachusetts Financial Services - Boston, MA March 2005 to October 2011 • Develop, enhance and maintain web applications using ASP.net, C#.net, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, JavaScript, leveraging MVC pattern.    • Lead developer on multiple applications including a Sales Dashboard which gathers sales data from disparate sources and displays it in a configurable dashboard for our sales force, managers and CEOs; a portfolio maintenance web application allowing users to add, edit and maintain portfolio, client and plan information for the company; a highly customized implementation of the SalesLogix CRM; our Electronic Data Publishing web application; amongst many other projects.    • Interviewed and mentored new hires to the group; I am responsible for guiding new team members as they get acquainted with our projects, code, applications we support as well as applications we use in our daily processes.    • Provided reliable support to our clients and business partners for any issues encountered in our production environment as well as fielding requests for enhancements to support their needs.    • Researched, developed and implemented a Document on Demand web-based solution for manipulating and appending existing PDF documents into one PDF Document according to user specified criteria. This project required implementation of a new vendor API which is now leveraged by several groups within the company.    • Responsible for organizing, documenting and performing bi-weekly builds for the department's primary intranet database application.    • Participated in technology strategy group meetings to determine the direction the department will take for acquiring and incorporating new technologies and developing departmental standards. Education Bachelor's Degree University of Massachusetts - Amherst, MA Skills Bootstrap, Mvc, Rest services, Sass, Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Visual studio, C#, Git, Javascript, Wcf, Jira, Rest, Ux, jquery Additional Information SKILLS    C# Agile React  ASP.Net WCF REST services SASS/CSS  BitBucket GIT Jira Confluence Visual Studio|TFS  MS SQL Server JQuery/Javascript Bootstrap  MVC Framework Active Batch UX