Front End Developer Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Dallas, TX Over 20 years experience professional of Web Development; using some of the most dynamic and innovative design techniques and technologies. Prior executions in project leadership skills have enabled me to take full projects through a complete life cycle development. In doing so I have built, maintained, optimized, and supported a number of sites; guided teams to proficient, outstanding work, and demanded higher quality. I am well trained in both technical and social aspects, within the web community. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Aptitude - Irving, TX April 2018 to August 2019 Front End development with AngularJs, Angular and Redux. Using JavaScript, HTML5, CSS and Java. Continuous development with agile and daily scrum meetings. Software Developer Topgolf - Dallas, TX April 2014 to October 2017 Highest contributing developer to new features and maintained Topgolf’s game and player management systems. Lead developer on several AWS projects using Kenisis Stream and Lambda functions. Developed and implemented custom testing tools. Worked with several frameworks and languages including Node, Go, Ruby, Rails, BackboneJs, MarionetteJs, AngularJs.  ? AWS Kenesis Stream and Lambda functions  ? Ruby On Rails development  ? CakePHP  ? BackboneJs with MarionetteJs  ? Angular  ? Version control using GIT Senior Developer Outcome Enginuity - Plano, TX February 2013 to January 2014 Senior developer of team of 4, developing SaaS applications. My team developed using a Ruby On Rails backend with BackboneJS and CoffeeScript front-end. The team had daily scrum meetings with 2 week agile sprints. I was also in charge of the maintenance of the commerce site, using Wordpress.  ? Ruby On Rails development  ? BackboneJs with MarionetteJs  ? CoffeeScript and HAMLC for mobile development  ? WordPress Plug-in Development  ? Several WordPress site Maintenance  ? Version control using GIT Lead Developer / Programmer Verizon/Redbox - Irving, TX September 2011 to February 2013 Lead developer on the Smart Samsung TV and Blu-Ray player app development of Redbox/ Verizon's "Redbox Instant" application, working through Seachange and Rayo-Interactive.  ? End-to-End development of "Redbox Instant" for Samsung Smart Devices  ? Coordinate a team which included several onsite and offsite resources  ? Help with the hire of my team and other teams for onsite Seachange resources  ? Programming with Object-Oriented JavaScript, JSON, and HTML5, and CSS3 HTML Developer / Web Developer Stratmark - Dallas, TX June 2011 to August 2011 Medium size company that provides direct mail campaigns for non-profit organizations, including feedthechildren.org, and americanbiblesociety.org. I was responsible for many of the email campaigns, as well as Facebook application and custom PHP code.  ? Convert PSD Designs into HTML/CSS  ? Adapt layouts for CMS software such as Drupal, Convio, Kintera, WordPress, etc.  ? Use mass emailing software to import designs such as Informz, MailChimp, Convio, and Kintera  ? Develop custom scripts for clients using Ajax, JavaScript and ActionScript  ? Custom back-end development using PHP Web Developer / HTML5 SiSTeR Technologies - Dallas, TX July 2010 to June 2011 Medium sized company that allows car dealerships to send car specifications and a video will be rendered and placed on several sites. My responsibilities included creating and maintaining the custom company portal built on Drupal; this included a user interface between Salesforce using their API. I also converted their current Flash presentation software to HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Converted Flash applications to HTML5  ? Customized and updated Joomla CMS  ? Salesforce and Salesforce API integration development  ? Proficient in jQuery, AJAX and JavaScript Web Developer / SEO Specialist Envision Interactive - Dallas, TX 2009 to 2010 For this small company that provided a wide range of media for advertisements, I was the lead developer on the majority of projects. This included many full cycle projects, custom interfaces, back-end management, and using CMS tools such as Wordpress and Drupal to develop full sites with unique modifications.  ? Lead development on majority of company's projects  ? Installed and customized CMS systems including WordPress, Drupal, and Magento  ? Developed websites to meet HTML5 and previous standards  ? Mobile development for JavaScript libraries to mimic Flash for use on iPhone and iPad  ? SEO specialist  ? Used a wide range of languages and environments such as PHP, Ruby On Rails, and .NET  ? Completed an abandoned Ruby On Rail's project for client Independent Contract Web Development - Flower Mound, TX 2006 to 2009 I worked for a wide range of clients, some very large and many start-ups. I was responsible for custom code, security, support, and debugging. I maintained good relationships with most of my clients and developed a wide range of skills.  ? Many large clients included Superpages.com (Idearc Media), Fossil watches, and HR Smart, Superpages.com (Idearc Media)  ? Take project through life cycle from concept, programming, testing and debugging  ? Provided code troubleshooting and subsequent bug fixes  ? Proficient with frameworks such as Zend and Pear  ? Works with client developers to bring customizations from user's websites and import them into the base system  ? Proficient in PHP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript  ? Utilized project management skill to developed websites  ? Analyzed current security and provided development for security enhancement  ? Server administration (Linux)  ? Developed applications and integrated software for CMS  ? SEO optimization from strategy to implementation and SEO application development.  ? Lead projects that had values up to and including $3 million  ? Proficient in following databases Oracle, MySQL, SQL  ? from a customer specification sheet PHP Developer Heritage Web Solutions - Orem, UT 2006 to 2007 A medium size business, that provides custom sites to a large quantity of customers. I worked on the PHP development team that created and implemented many custom sites. Also I did security and debugging for many of sites that were already live.  ? Developed PHP/ MySQL /JavaScript driven websites  ? Integrated design with database driven websites  ? Coordinated with programming teams to design and write websites  ? Project managed several complete sites leveraging template based code  ? Proficient in Smarty, JavaScript, Zend Framework, MySQL, CSS, HTML and XML Web Programmer and Graphic Designer Metalmart - Lehi, UT 2004 to 2006 Medium size business that sells metal across the country. I was web development team, and the data management. I also created a number of Macro's using visual basic to help in their normal daily functions.  ? Created and maintained corporate website using PHP, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, ActionScript, Flash, and CSS  ? Designed graphics using Photoshop  ? Programmed and implemented macros for Microsoft Office using VisualBasic Script Technical Support Microsoft - Orem, UT 2002 to 2005 I worked on the Microsoft technical support teams for a large company that offered technical support and phone marketing for many customers.  ? Technical support for Microsoft Windows XP  ? Technical support for Microsoft Word  ? Technical support for Microsoft FrontPage  ? Technical support for other Office products  ? Help Desk/Call center: provided troubleshooting for Windows problems to the callers' satisfaction    Notable clients:  Redbox, Verizon, Superpages.com, Feedthechildren.org, Fossil Watches, Shoebacca.com, North American Spine Institute, Sister Technologies, WFAA Dallas. Education Associate Skills JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), PHP (8 years), CSS (7 years), Rails (5 years), Ruby (5 years), Linux (3 years), Java, Spring, Golang Additional Information Skills:  Programming/Scripting Languages  Javascript, PHP, Ruby, Python, Go, C#, C/C++, HTML, CSS    Frameworks  Backbonejs, MarionetteJs, Angular, Node, Rails, Zend, Pear, CakePHP, CoffeeScript, Unity3D    Databases  MySQL, SQL, Oracle, Postgres. MongoDB    Platforms  Mac, Linux, Windows, Samsung Smart TV, IOS, Andriod    Other Skills  Photoshop, GIT, SVN, Blender3D