Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - SiriusXM, incorporated Scotch Plains, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer SiriusXM, incorporated - New York, NY December 2005 to Present Involved in full cycle Supply Chain application development process of accepting files from partners and providing activation radio data to SMS using business logic.    * Created from scratch legacy Supply Chain automated system  * Migrated legacy MSSQL DB to Oracle platform (procedures, data transformations)  * Produced XML Schemas for partner file communication  * Set up file parsers for partner data using Java framework application  * Designed Oracle DB Schemas for data storage of parsed files and transactional processing  * Implemented configurable system rules engine for business logic  * Reengineered PL/SQL for multi-threaded processing by using data sets design  * Invented data archival procedures for faster transactional processing  * Created system design documents for each release of application based on requirements provided  * Designed and used test case generation tool  * Resolved daily high priority application issues, data cleanups  Technical Skills: Java Frameworks, Perl, Oracle PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, MSSQL, XML Schema, SVN, Eclipse. Application Developer Chem Rx, incorporated - New York, NY September 2004 to November 2005 Employed by major pharmaceutical distributor to innovate, maintain and provide application support for Pharmacy Plus, pharmaceutical ordering and patient inventory application.    * Automated client's data collection and feed on initial installation  * Created setup scripts to install software on clients and servers  * Changed automatic order sending from faxing to emailing  * Improved data search and utilization by creating user/resident activity, drug usage, categories, order, archiving, reports  * Expanded administrative tasks to assign user access rights for particular sections  * Provided application support and training to end users.  Technical Skills: Visual Basic 6, Perl, Access 2000, and Crystal Reports 10 Web Developer Digital Gear, Incorporated - New York, NY January 2004 to August 2004 Selected as Programmer for online electronics retailer (mydigitalgear.com). Develop and institute Web-based application for eBay API. Install, configure and maintain server, database and software.  Allowed third-party developers to formulate applications by creating eBay Developers Program with API provided by eBay, resulting in fast, flexible Web-based application. Developed improved selling strategies and processes by creating and implementing the following tools.    * Item Profile Scheduler - manipulates profile automation for items, creates/edits/purges profiles based on time, date, quantity, and duration, assigns items to profiles for posting as categorized  * Post Item Daemon - lists items automatically while creating relationships with specific profiles, produces report of listed items, send email to application users  * Items Auction Manager - projects details of items being auctioned, utilizes search engine to find sold items by buyer or item properties, revises auctioned item properties (title, price, description and etc.), terminates selling auctions for provided reasons as a feedback, shows list of terminated auctions  * Sold Auction Daemon - obtains purchase transactions report and sends email to end-users  * Items Tree Categorizer - produces tree of eBay categories to appoint items  * Items Feedback Manager - retrieves and sends feedback to buyers for sold auctions  * Items Search Engine - expedites retrieval of items by keyword, itemID, categoryID and title, posts mass listing of items based on search criteria, views attributes of items  Technical Skills: Perl/CGI/ODBC, MS SQL 2000, HTML, XML, Apache, Windows NT. Application Developer Starmedia Network, Incorporated - New York, NY October 1999 to October 2003 Joined leading Internet media company serving Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking audience worldwide. Designed, implemented and maintained real-time log tracking system across network in Unix environment. Administered FreeBSD and Linux Systems. Performed troubleshooting for various network problems. Improved performance, reliability and security of company systems through implementing and automating networking functions. Optimized code with focus on successful design and installation of real-time log tracking system, delivery of timely reports and training personnel on system use.    Log Collection  * Collected logs across companies network  * Created a process that wait for log request to be written on production servers  * Sends log entry to log format conversion and analysis processes  Log Conversion  * Converted logs from squid to apache format  * Automated Java Servlet as part of Apache to convert log entry to squid format  Log Parsing and Analysis  * Parsed log to update reports  * Simulated process to wait for log conversion passing squid format log entry  * Obtained page views reports by unique users, url, most visited pages, date, production machines  Audit Collection  * Collected logs for auditing and generated reports for WebFacts auditing  Log Archive and Cleanup Utility  * Created archive structure for log storage and timely purging utility  Technical Skills: Perl, Apache, MySQL, CVS  Work Eligibility: US Citizen Education Master of Arts in Computer and Information Science City University of New York - Brooklyn College - Brooklyn, NY 2003 Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science City University of New York - Hunter College - New York, NY 1999 Skills Perl (10+ years), Shell Scripting (10+ years), PL/SQL (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Oracle 11G (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), MS SQLServer (10+ years), Linux (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Expertise  Programming Languages: Perl, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, SQL, XML Schema, HTML. Knowledge of Java, C/C++  Databases: Oracle 11g, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MS SQL 2000, Access 2000    Operating Systems: Linux, Unix, Sun OS 5.6/5.8, Windows NT/2000/XP  Tools: Eclipse, SQL*Plus, CVS, SVN, Crystal Reports 10, Apache