Jira Admin Jira Admin Jira Admin Mountain House, CA • 15+ years' experience in Object Oriented Analysis, Design and Implementation, Software Engineering Practices and Development of Web based solutions  • Over 3+ years of experience working on Atlassian Tools, Jira, Confluence, Jira Service Desk.  • Trained Teams to make the best use of Jira Features.  • Created Customized Dashboards for specific teams.  • Created Projects, Workflows, Custom Fields, Notification Schemes, Permissions Scheme, Screen Schemes and Issue Type Schemes within JIRA.  • Experience in Creating Stories and Reports in JIRA using Easy BI Plugin.  • Experienced in integrating JIRA with Plugins like Jira Zephyr, Easy BI Plugin.  • Worked on Confluence, Bamboo, Jira Service Desk and Stash.  • Coordinating and tracking all projects for seamless releases using Project Management System JIRA.  • Experience in execution of Functional Testing, Regression Testing, System Testing, Integration Testing and User Acceptance Testing and related test methodologies.  • Experience with Jira Cloud, Jira Migration and Jira administration.  • Worked in Financial, Pharmacy, e-Commerce domains.  • Strong communication, client interaction, interpersonal, onsite coordination skills. Work Experience Jira Admin Macys Inc - San Francisco, CA November 2017 to June 2019 Supporting complex Atlassian environments and have experience with integrating Atlassian tools with other internal and external systems. Setup configuration for JIRA projects, built custom workflows, created additional screens, created new custom fields, created/modified permission schemes to meet the security policy and other administrative tasks such as creation/modifying notification schemes, roles.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the client meeting to the understating the requirements.  • Creating new Project and groups within the Jira Software along with setting up the Scrum and Kanban boards.  • Support complex Atlassian environments and have experience with integrating Atlassian tools with other internal & external systems.  • Create and Modify existing Permissions and Notifications scheme for all projects as per Team's requirements.  • Configured and setup the incident report management using Jira Service Desk.  • Worked with integrating the help desk wiki with Jira Service desk so that the service executives can use it for reference.  • Create custom workflows, screens, custom fields and additional Admin Roles.  • Created user accounts, and technical documents documenting Jira project configurations proved training sessions.  • Support all the Active users for creating Private Dashboard with use of JQL.  • Supported infrastructure for Jira and Confluence and worked with other system Administrators.  • Performed routine audits of the database to ensure consistent field usage and accurate reporting, working with the team to resolve inconsistencies.  • Worked extensively on Addons like Scriptrunner, GIT integrations, TFS4Jira, Jira Misc Custom fields.  • Wrote Groovy scripts to customize the functionalities as per the requirements.  • Upgrading and migration version changes and upgrades for Jira.  • Handled all the runtime issues and worked with respective teams for showing the custom dashboard reports. Jira Admin FirstTech Credit Union - Sunnyvale, CA April 2016 to October 2017 Description:  FirstTech Credit union is a member owned credit union. The IT Department is responsible for the online banking operations, the tools and other IT services for the bank. I worked with the infrastructure teams and the IT Teams leads to provide end to end support for Atlassian products.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked on the requirement gathering, analysis and involved in the end to end development of modules assigned to me.  • Setup the Jira and configured for the team did the initial setup and configuration.  • Worked independently with the team members to get them started.  • Created team specific Agile processes and workflow.  • Checked Tomcat logs and examining the runtime issues and providing support.  • Installed and managed plugins for Jira like Project Configurator, Canned responses. Jira Admin Stanford HealthCare - Palo Alto, CA September 2015 to February 2016 Description:  Stanford healthcare IT department is supporting the development of new models and leverage the technology to care of every patient. The IT support department is responsible for development and support of all IT related infrastructure and products.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Jira Administrator for the existing Jira application.  • Provided first level triage for any issues encountered in the system.  • Defined and maintained SLAs and processes for the system including server uptime and consistency.  • Setup development guidelines for the system for any custom integrations or plugins.  • Worked with the team leads and customized dashboard as per their requirements.  • Administer the system including but not limited to setting up new users, groups, projects and configurations.  • Configured Tomcat server and worked on Apache server configurations.  • Handled database setup and installation of MySQL on Linux servers.  • Defined the roadmap of enhancements for the system and socialize the roadmap with other teams.  • Manage the development for key system-wide customization. Web Developer Paypal - San Jose, CA January 2013 to September 2015 Description:  PayPal makes it an easy and secure way for making payments. I worked on one of the Giving funds projects. EBay giving fund is an application that makes it easy to vet the charities collect funds for those charities. The company was originally called Mission Fish and was a part of the ebay/PayPal ecosystem. Using this application the ebay sellers get advantage of increased sales and the charities can increase the donations.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Used Angular.JS to create custom directives for pagination, search filters and other re-usable sections.  • Worked on Angular.JS, used its two-way data binding to achieve the feedback functionality from the user.  • Extensively used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript to build the required functionality for data handling for admin accounting and compliance.  • Worked with business analysts to understand their business models and goals and help define strategy, content, and features.  • Involved in the creation of User Interface to manage User menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.JS, Node.JS, Require.js and JQuery.  • Implemented Restful Web Service using Restify.JS and Node.JS for PayPal payment transaction for charity.  • Used Node.JS with Express.JS to manage the data regarding charity category and amount to be transacted, data saving and transferring data to accounting and compliance.  • Handled all the client-side validations using Angular.JS.  • Implemented the data archive to store the real-time transaction data into MongoDB.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages. Software Developer Insurance and Hospitality domains January 2003 to November 2012 Between 2003 and 2012 worked as a software developer with few companies. During this time, I have worked both with financial, Insurance and Hospitality domains. Skills Jira, Groovy, Javascript, Json, Php, Xml, Web services, Mvc, Mvp, Mvvm, Sdlc, Java, Service desk Additional Information SKILLS:  Languages: PHP, Java, Groovy-Script, JavaScript.  Products: Jira, Jira Service Desk, Confluence  Architectures/Framework: MVC, MVCS, MVVM, MVP.  Web Services: RESTful with JSON/XML data  Development Methodologies: SDLC, Agile, TDD