Sr. Web Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web Developer - Pantheon Houston, TX • Over 10+ years of Front-end Web Application Development experience with technologies using Angular JS, HTML 4.0/5, CSS2, CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, Ext JS, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, and XML.  • Experience developing Single Page Web Applications (SPAs) using Angular.js, Node.js, Ext JS.  • Hands on experience developing Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap and CSS media queries.  • Extensive Knowledge on Gulp Build System along with Grunt, Bower, NPM.  • More than 10 Years of experience in Web Application Development & Designing.  • Hand code HTML, HTML5, CSHTML, XHTML, CSS3, XML, PHP, JavaScript, MySQL, AngularJS, jQuery, and ASP.net  • Ability to design layered PSD mockup and wireframe  • Extensive knowledge in mobile frameworks such as jQuery UI and Bootstrap  • Strong familiarity with all AngularJS attributes and references  • Great experience in developing both static and dynamic websites  • Strong knowledge in Adobe Creative Suites and Acrobat PDF Professional  • Expert with Responsive CSS3 Media Queries  • Knowledge in multiple restful API's such as Facebook, Twitter, Zillow, and much more  • Strong understanding of resolution and device compatibility  • Ability to utilize JavaScript only in an isolated environment  • including JDBC, Spring, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Hibernate.  • Expertise in Analyzing data Quality checks using shell scripts. Upgrading, installing, and configuring PostgreSQL.  • Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, JDBC, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  • Experience in design and development of JUNIT test cases, load balancing and failovers with cache servers and application servers.  • Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  • Familiar with Resco Mobile CRM and PhoneGap  • Fluent with both Windows and Mac OSX  • Experienced with ZPL and ZPL 2 coding for Zebra mobile printers  • Familiar with Optical Character Reader (OCR)  • Extensive Knowledge in CMS (Joomla, Wordpress, Drupal, Freedom) and OpenCart ecommerce websites Work Experience Sr. Web Developer Pantheon - Spring, TX July 2018 to Present Postman tool to debug Web API York Solutions, LLC - Minneapolis, MN December 2016 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Created application using Angular JS, Python Rest API and HTML5/CSS3.  • Hands on experience in developing and implementing REST API using Python.  • Handle all UI/UX elements of websites and mobile applications  • Floats used always with dynamic widths where needed  • PSD to code conversions  • Everything is hand coded within notepad++ and checked into a repository  • All projects and bugs are tracked in basecamp  • Familiar with multiple resolution breakpoints and follow common mobile practice  • ECommerce integration with WooCommerce, WP e-Commerce, and OpenCart  • Developed iPad friendly web applications utilizing Twitter Bootstrap  • Extensively used CSS3 media queries and Bootstrap while working on responsive web design  • Used AngularJS Services $http for consuming REST API's and utilized Postman tool to debug Web API.  • Created methods (get, post, put, delete) to make requests to the API server and tested Restful API using postman.  • Used GIT for continuous integration and deployment.  • Worked on MYSQL DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication, schema design.  • Created pdf report for customer with all information by using Pdfmake Module.  • Used API from SendGrid to deliver bulk email to all customers.  • Involved in Agile methodology for SDLC and was a part of all tiers in web application.  • Utilize Adobe CS6 for graphics  • SEO optimization performed on all projects  • Projects have been optimized to display on all platforms  • Mobile development utilizing PhoneGap  • Communications are through AJAX with JSON responses and all JavaScript is written in JSON format  • Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  • Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  • Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  • Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  • Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  • Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  • Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  • Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  • Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  • Development of GUI using AWT  • Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  • Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  • Lead front end developer to Call Of Duty - Active Warfare mobile site  • Converted PSD to HTML/CSS/Bootstrap/jQuery  • Worked with a team of developers and project managers communicating with them through phone, Skype and GoToMeeting  • Worked in SFDC and utilized APEX, HTML5, CSS3, Java, JavaScript, jQuery, and jQuery Mobile  • Responsive CSS was utilized where needed to achieve same look and feel across all platforms  • Converted landing pages to single page applications with AngularJS routing, filters, and application  Environment: jQuery, AngularJS, Python, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, MySQL DB, GIT, MySQL workbench, Atom, Visual Code, Postman.  York Solutions, LLC Minneapolis, MN Dec 16 to Jun 18  Sr. Web Developer  Responsibilities:  • Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  • Architect multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Spring, Struts, Hibernate and Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  • Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle RDBMS  • Architect new interfaces using java, maven/ant, spring mvc / struts, or hibernate based on provided requirements XSD/DDF's  • Architect the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO).  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Developed WordPress plugins and modules to embed into the active pages using PHP.  • Architect and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  • Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases.  • Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  • Architect Cloud based Service Bus on WSO2 for engaging stakeholders in the initial SOA discussions.  • Architect additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Worked on Python Ruby, Perl, Bash Scripts for on Middleware tools for deployment.  • Extracted data from PostgreSQL, Cassandra, Redis, Influx dB and Elastic Search.  • Architect HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Worked to make the application compatible with multiple iOS versions. Shark.  • Architect applications using Java, J2EE Standards, Java Server Faces, EJB, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, MVC Architecture, Web Services, AJAX, RMI, UML, HTML, Java Beans, JavaScript and DHTML.  • Architect hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  • Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  • Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Ember.js, and Celery.  • Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  • Writing scripts, front end configuration and code in JavaScript, Python, PHP, SASS and CSS.  • Architect a scalable distributed data solution using Hadoop  • Architect Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  • Created Java servlets with RESTful APIs to handle HTTP requests and responses  • Architect and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  • Architect Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views  • Architect new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development  • Responsible for Docker Compose environment deployment for Ruby on Rails, Elixir and Node.JS apps running on a stack with Postgresql, ElasticSearch, OrientDB and Nginx.  • Played a key role in installation and configuration of the various Hadoop ecosystem tools such as Sqoop, Flume, Pig and Hbase. Web Developer Make Corporation - Chicago, IL March 2014 to November 2016 Environment: J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Dhtml, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Wsad, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Sql Query Analyzer, Jprobe, Cvs, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp, Unix-Ibm Aix.  Make Corporation Chicago, IL Mar 14 to Nov 16  Web Developer    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Architect and testing of web application and integration projects using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE, Multi-threading, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Java Beans, Web Services (REST/SOAP)  • Architect Use Case, Object, Class, Sequence and Flow Chart Diagrams using Rational Rose Tool  • Architect IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO). Also Developed hibernate mappings to tables using JPA annotations.  • Backend development with LINUX, UNIX  • Performed Benchmarking and Load testing using Cassandra-stress tool.  • Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT  • Architect Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  • Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  • Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  • Architect REST WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  • Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic.  • Architect back-end stored procedures and triggers using Oracle PL/SQL, involved in database objects creation, performance tuning of stored procedures, and query plan.  • Integrating Rich Faces and My Faces in configuring Rich Faces Filter and Servlet in the configuration file  • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.    Environment: Java, Ruby, Python, PHP, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, Ibatis, Android, iOS, HTML, PostgreSQL, Javascript, CSS, XML, Servlet, WebLogic, Web Services, SOAP, Cassandra, Hadoop, PL/SQL, Junit, Oracle, MySql, REST, SOA, Git, Github, Selenium, RAD, Agile, UML, CVS, Eclipse Web Developer Leidos - King George, VA August 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Resolved the UI design issues for multiple versions of iOS.  • Developed apps using various iOS design patterns like MVC, Delegation, Target Action and Slide-out navigation.  • Designed and developed applications using various iOS frameworks and test driven development using XCTest framework.  • Architect various Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and Oracle JDeveloper  • Architect Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQL.  • Develop native Android application according to design.  • Use of core data and persistent storage for local database storage in iOS and Shared preferences for Android Application Development.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Architect and implemented four Agile Scrum teams for product development.  • Architect a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Embedded Python and R with Tcl using C wrappers to allow developers to perform data analytics as well as Implement applications in a single language i.e. PHP.  • Design, develop and implement ColdFusion and PHP based Spiderlink Web Services online billing application.  • Architect SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite  • Architect the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle and MS SQL Server.  • Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  • Developed various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, AJAX, JAXP, JNDI, JMS, and MQ Series by using RAD.  • Developed SQL queries with PHP Doctrine and Propel to create, retrieve and update data and programming SQL sentences based on CRUD.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Architect REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  • Development work is also done to the legacy system using WebSphere Studio Application Devloper WSAD IDE. The modified application is deployed on websphere using ANT and javascripts for use by interface project.  • Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering Servlets and JSP components to be deployed on a VMWare VI Client.  • Lead front-end web developer to all web projects and apps  • Architect webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware  • Architect Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • EJB components are deployed on the WebLogic Integration with MQSeries using JMS.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  • Involved in UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose  • Architect interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  • Wrote JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional quality.  • Architect Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.    Environment: Java, Ruby, Python, PHP, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JDBC, WSAD WebSphere Studio Application Devloper, Servlet, WEBSERVICES, Android, iOS, PostgreSQL, Websphere, Angular.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JSP, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Javascript, XML, SOAP, PL/SQL, JSF, PHP, Web Service, JMS, Junit, EJB, DB2, CRUD, MongoDB, MySQL, MS SQL, , REST, SOA, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Eclipse, Scrum, Subversion SVN, UML, Class diagram, JSTL, Maven. Application Developer Bloomberg L.P - Princeton, NJ January 2011 to July 2012 Accountabilities:  • Architect application which uses J2EE architecture model and Struts Framework first on Weblogic and helped in migrating to JBoss Application server.  • Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  • Architect Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, Spring, JSF frameworks and SOAP/REST web services, Web Sphere Integration Developer (WID) Tool to develop WPS components.  • Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  • Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat  • Architect packages for Transforming and Loading of Data from Sybase, Oracle to MS SQL Server by using SQL Server Integration Services  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSF, Marionette.js, Swing/AWT, JSON, Java Script and HTML5, Bootstrap and Backbone.js, Flex, ASP and Extjs.  • Used JDBC, JavaScript, Servlet, and JDBC and used SQL Server for backend. Interaction with business users to gather requirements.  • Architect web presentation layer using jQuery, JavaScript, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Architect components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML.  • Design of the process flow in Oracle BPM and jBPM to evaluate the difference between the behavior of different BPM tools  • Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  • Rewrote code for enabling download as .pdf with new iText library for Java  • Worked with Rational ClearCase to provide sophisticated version control, workspace management and parallel development support. Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  • Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  • Wrote complex sql statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  • Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe  • Build code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  • Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Struts, JSF, JSP, EJB, DOJO, JQuery, Sencha ExtJS, JavaScript, GWT, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, coherence, APACHE AXIS2, Tomcat, WSDL, JBoss, Netbeans, Jasper report, Unix, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model,Jira, Swing, Cognos, iLog, JRules, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, Web 2.0, Linux, IBM MQ Series, Ruby, Z, ASP, C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS VB Web Administrator Global Information Services - Tallahassee, FL May 2008 to December 2010 Accountabilities:  • Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  • Used JSF messages for handling the error messages for the applications  • Preparation of the framework classes for communication between portal to EJB and Hibernate  • Used Spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  • Worked on full software development cycle from concept through deployment for iOS.  • Created Java servlets with RESTful APIs to handle HTTP requests and responses.  • Used Symfony in a set of PHP Components as a Web Application framework  • Architect front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  • Architect a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angularjs, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  • Architect application using Angular.JS and Node.JS connecting to Oracle on the backend.  • Defined and Created SOA software and hardware infrastructure, including Application Servers, Services Bus, Server Domains etc.  • Wrote the entire admin from scratch(PHP), rewrote the main API(PHP), and fixed issues in our slot API(Coffeescript).  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  • Used Github repository for version control.  • Architect use cases for each component of business workflow, create technical design documents with different UML diagrams like sequence diagrams and class diagrams using Rational Rose  • Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  • Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  • Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer. Designed & Developed Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.    Environment: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, JavaScript, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis , tcpmon, Ant, WinCVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix Education Bachelor's