Owner Owner Owner - SELTZER SOFTWARE SERVICES LLC East Meadow, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Owner Seltzer Software Services LLC - East Meadow, NY July 2018 to Present Independent custom computer programming firm firm specializing in database design and implementation; data conversion/ETL; data warehousing; data analysis; data reporting and visualization; database performance tuning; website back-end database configuration; and re-engineering/refactoring of legacy business applications. Incorporated as a New York State limited liability corporation in July 2018. Web Developer Intern ADVICE MEDIA - Melville, NY April 2018 to June 2018 Designed and implemented a MySQL database structure to house telephone call log data using MySQL Workbench, and created reusable ETL packages to populate it using Talend Open Studio. Developed several MySQL stored procedures to manipulate this data. Wrote several simple PHP pages to generate KPI-related reports. Investigated creation of KPI dashboard using Google Sheets and Google Data Studio, and reworking of existing data warehouse incorporating Google Analytics data with data obtained from SugarCRM. Functional Specialist WRIGHT RISK MANAGEMENT - Uniondale, NY July 2016 to October 2017 [Specialty: Microsoft SQL Server Transact-SQL.] Maintained and enhanced legacy software applications' back-end database logic, and reports created using SQL Server Reporting Services and Microsoft Access. Streamlined and simplified numerous existing SQL Server Integration Services packages, most of which performed critical business functions. Rewrote and performance-tuned existing SQL Server stored procedures and SQL Server Integration Services packages so that they would execute more quickly and efficiently. Revamped in its entirety an existing manual process that generated a Medicare claims data feed and automated it via SQL Server Integration Services/VB.NET. Created a new automated process to extract and transmit claims data to a new insurance carrier on a predetermined schedule. Served as intermediary between Wright business analysts and a team of about a half-dozen offshore software developers (contracted by Wright to assist in the implementation of this new insurance carrier). Developed new SQL Server stored procedures to support a Workers' Compensation web portal. Provided support for ad-hoc data extract requests from Wright's claims, finance, underwriting and Workers' Compensation departments, and addressed help desk service requests from Wright employees. Documented physical/logical structure and entity relationships of policy administration system SQL Server database using Microsoft Visio and TOAD for SQL Server. Data Analyst NATIONAL HEALTHCARE ASSOCIATES, INC - Valley Stream, NY July 2014 to June 2016 Solved long-standing problems with inaccuracies in company-wide daily resident census-- ended up creating an entirely new, fully-automated census-generation process using SQL Integration Services, SQL Reporting Services, VB.NET, and my knowledge of COBOL file structures. Using MS Reporting Services and MS SQL Server 2014, created web-based dashboard displaying trends of counts of occupied beds per facility and payer type (wrote my own linear regression algorithm in MS SQL Server to accomplish this). De facto resident database administrator, responsible for managing all clinical data residing in MS SQL Server and MS Excel. Supported users of legacy MS Access and COBOL database systems. Introduced contemporary data visualization and transformation tools such as Tableau and Alteryx to NHCA. Principal developer of data curating/management back-end routines. Worked with clinical, financial and operational units of NHCA to develop an executive dashboard using Alteryx and Tableau, which, at the facility, regional and enterprise levels, measured days in A/R with/without credit; Medicare census vs. bed capacity trends; overall census vs. bed capacity trends; net income vs. budget trends; long-term care rehabilitation services utilization trends; nursing overtime trends; nursing turnover trends; occurrence of facility-acquired pressure ulcers among residents; occurrence of falls among residents; customer satisfaction trends among residents; Federal nursing home Five Star ratings (comprising two separate key performance indicators); re-hospitalization rate trends; employee participation in computer-based training; frequency of quality measure triggers (from Federal CASPER reports); frequency of occurrence of moderate-to-severe pain among short-stay residents; and job survey participation trends among employees. Developer III FIDELIS CARE NEW YORK - Rego Park, NY November 2008 to July 2014 Created an easily-extensible Crystal Report which generated a minimum of eighteen different Medicare form letters using a single design template. Created a VB.NET 2005 utility to parse, transform and e-mail healthcare data (in MS Excel format) to designated recipients in the Enrollment Department. Ported database back-end for billing system from Sybase ASE to Sybase IQ and redesigned application front-end. Designed and implemented end-to-end ETL system using MS SQL Server 2005 and MS SQL Server Integration Services 2005 to create custom feeds for Trizetto Systems' Clinical CareAdvance product. Created small-scale data warehouse containing hundreds of millions of records using MS SQL Server 2005 to generate several varieties of actuarial analyses pertaining to Medicare loss ratios. Using VB.NET 2005, created new, 'friendly' user interface to enable users to inspect records downloaded on a monthly basis from Union Local 1199. Created VB.NET utility to programmatically generate MS Excel pivot tables for Provider Relations Department. Member of the WPF development team for the 'Easy Electronic Enrollment' ('EX3') system debuting in October 2011. Lead developer on several data mining projects for Fidelis' Quality Health Care Management division. Devised end-to-end process in Sybase Transact-SQL to perform cancellations of individuals awaiting full Fidelis membership who otherwise could not be cancelled 'out-of-the-box' by Trizetto Systems' FACETS product. Assisted business analysts with development and implementation of fourteen key performance indicators defined by clinical staff (using MS SQL Server). Education business school diploma in web development and design Hunter Business School - Levittown, NY October 2017 to June 2018 certificate in HTML5 development Hofstra University - Uniondale, NY May 2014 to June 2014 Bachelor's in Mathematics New York University College of Arts and Science - New York, NY September 1983 to June 1987 Skills Visual Basic (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), SQL Server Reporting Services (10+ years), SQL Server Integration Services (10+ years), Python (Less than 1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), CSS3 (Less than 1 year), HTML5 (4 years), MySQL (Less than 1 year), Oracle 11G (Less than 1 year), Crystal Reports (10+ years), Tableau Desktop/Server (3 years), WordPress (Less than 1 year), C# (1 year), NET (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthewpjseltzer http://www.seltzersoftwareservices.com Certifications/Licenses Analyzing Data with Power BI (Learning Tree International) June 2017 to Present Building an Effective Data Warehouse (Learning Tree International) November 2016 to Present Tableau Advanced Desktop (Tableau Software, Inc.) February 2016 to Present Tableau DeveloperFundamentals (Tableau Software, Inc.) September 2015 to Present (N.B. I had started to learn Tableau on my own at the behest of my boss in 2014.) The Data Scientist's Toolbox (Coursera.org/John Hopkins University) June 2014 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    Programming languages • Visual Basic ("classic" and .NET, through V. 2015), LINQ, XML/XAML, Visual Basic for Applications, Python, Java, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP (and C, FORTRAN, COBOL--legacy application development)    Databases • MS SQL Server 2005/2008R2/2012/2014, Sybase ASE/IQ, MS Access, IBM DB2/400, MySQL 5.x, Oracle 11g    Operating systems • Windows XP/7/10, Windows Server 2008R2/2012, Citrix, MS Remote Desktop Services (a/k/a Terminal Services), VMWare Workstation    Hardware • Windows pcs/servers; AS/400 midrange    Application software • Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, Visio, Lotus Notes, SPSS, MS SQL Server Reporting Services, MS SQL Server Integration Services, Crystal Reports, ActiveReports, DBArtisan, Internet Information Server, Adobe Acrobat, MS Visual SourceSafe, TOAD for SQL Server, Apache HTTP Server, MySQL Workbench, Oracle SQL Developer, Git/GitHub    Business intelligence software • Tableau Desktop/Server 9.x, Alteryx 10.x, Microsoft Power BI, Talend Open Studio for Data Integration    [Among other interests of mine are design patterns (MVC) and the 'R' language for data manipulation and statistical analysis.]