SOFTWARE ENGINEER - MOBILE SOFTWARE ENGINEER - MOBILE SOFTWARE ENGINEER - MOBILE - Cintas Corporation West Chester, OH Utilize my education, talent, and enthusiasm for computers and technology to manage a  team of software engineers in a forward-moving, positive work environment. Work Experience SOFTWARE ENGINEER - MOBILE Cintas Corporation 2015 to Present Design, develop, and maintain enhancements and projects for CoPilot Fire, a Windows mobile application used by technicians in Cintas' Fire division. Lead developer on project to convert app from legacy Windows CE to Universal Windows Platform (UWP). Learned how to program for UWP with an Oracle and AS400 backend. Also maintain web services, Oracle database tables and stored procedures, and data translation adapter for data transfer and storage for the CoPilot Fire mobile app. PROGRAMMER / ANALYST Aurora Casket Company 2013 to 2015 Developed alpha version of company’s first internally used Android app using Android SDK, Amazon Mobile App SDK, SQLite, and SOAP. Planned, designed, and developed new customer interface for product customizations. New interface directly links to production for decreased turnaround time. Use knowledge of ASP.Net C# with Entity Framework, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, MS SQL Server, Visual Studio, and IIS to provide enhancements and fixes to existing Aurora Advantage product.  WEB APPLICATIONS ADMINISTRATOR Cincinnati Public Schools 2009 to 2013 Planned, designed, and developed new web applications as requested and approved by various departments within the district using Visual Basic, ASP.Net (VB), Perl, HTML and CSS with MS SQL and Oracle databases. Provided updates, enhancements and fixes to existing web applications. I wrote and executed queries on student data and provided comprehensive reports of critical information with Cognos Connection 8.3. Was responsible for student planning system which uses Oracle based database tables and stored procedures to maintain and predict next year's student lists for entire district. I was also responsible for maintaining the district SharePoint server, and maintaining the district TrackIt (help desk ticketing software) server. I provided assistance with the district web site, Cognos system administration, and other systems when their primary owners were out of the office. AVIATION STRUCTURAL MECHANIC (SAFETY EQUIPMENT) SECOND CLASS United States Navy 2004 to 2009 Received secret clearance classification. As a shift supervisor, utilized unparalleled knowledge of systems, teamwork and the ability to prioritize tasks to maintain a squadron of fighter attack aircraft in a full mission capable status. My leadership, teamwork, and analytical skills were critical to my squadron achieving the highest mission success rate in the Pacific Fleet while deployed overseas in 2008. Additionally, designed, developed and served as WebMaster of the squadron’s web site. WEB APPLICATION DEVELOPER ThinkWare Inc 2002 to 2003 Troubleshot and developed current and future versions of internet based DarwiNet product. Developed ThinkWare's intranet billing system for DarwiNet which made for easier tracking of client usage; re-designed ThinkWare's intranet client maintenance web site which improved organization of client information; developed ThinkWare's intranet installation program to automate the installation of new clients onto internal DarwiNet servers; planned and developed Wise installation CD for ThinkWare's Cicero call management software. Set up and maintained MS Visual SourceSafe project to add version control to the DarwiNet source files and to prevent source files from being edited by more than one programmer at one time. Utilized my skills in HTML, Active Server Pages, Java Script, Adobe Photoshop, MS SQL Server 2000, IIS, MS Visual Interdev, Widows 2000 Server, MS Visual SourceSafe, Windows Scripting Host, and Wise Installation Program.     APPLICATION DEVELOPER     Troubleshot and developed current and future versions of Microsoft Great Plains based Darwin product. Re-designed functionality to track user activity within the Darwin software. Utilized quick learning skills to learn the Sanscript programming language used by Dexterity to modify the Darwin product. APPLICATION DEVELOPER Jenzabar, Inc 2001 to 2001 Developed and updated software for the financial aid module of the Jenzabar 300 CX product and also the developing web module. Programmed in C, C++, Perl and HTML on a Unix platform. My knowledge of SQL and CGI programming were also utilized in this position. WEB DEVELOPER HomesThatClick.com 2000 to 2001 (full-time summer & part-time during college)    Developed current and future versions of HomesThatClick.com web site. Provided in-house technical support for employees. Programmed in HTML, VBScript, Visual Basic, Java Script, and Active Server Pages. Troubleshot problems with code and with hardware in order to keep HomesThatClick.com web site available to clients at all times. Also assisted in planning, setting up, and maintaining HomesThatClick.com's internal LAN based office network. Utilized knowledge of LAN networks and Windows 2000 Server to set up routing service from the ADSL Zoomtown network connection to the LAN. Applied my knowledge of Adobe Photoshop, MS SQL Server 7.0, IIS, MS Visual Interdev, MS Visual Studio, COM, DLL's, MS Visual SourceSafe, computer networking, and Widows 2000 Server. COMPUTER TECHNICIAN University of Dayton Computer Store 1998 to 2001 (part-time during college)    Installed and upgraded Windows based machines in a networked office environment. Configured machines to a Netware network, and installed the appropriate client software. Troubleshot and repaired network, software, and hardware problems for faculty and students of the University of Dayton. WEB DEVELOPER / SOLE PROPRIETOR GEMWeb Designs 1997 to 2001 Provided web site and/or computer consulting services for clients including:    FUBA Communications Systems, GmbH  Bad Salzdetfurth, Germany  Designed and developed company internet web site single-handedly. Web site included over forty pages, animated graphics, Java Script enhancements, and image maps. Web site could be viewed in either English or German.    GAFCO Worldwide, Inc.  Cincinnati, Ohio  Designed and developed company internet web site, in English and Spanish, which provided potential and existing customers with an online brochure for their company. Provided periodic updates on an as-needed basis. Developed invoice and phone list databases in Microsoft Access. I applied my knowledge of HTML, Java Script, Adobe Photoshop, and relational database design.    Thelma’s Diner  Cincinnati, Ohio  Designed and developed company internet web site.  Web site provides public with Thelma’s Diner’s menu, directions, specialties and a daily specials page. Behind the scenes is a MS SQL Server driven administrative page which allows for changes to various content on the site. Site developed using Active Server Pages, HTML, Google Maps API, Adobe Photoshop and MS SQL Server.    Pray~Hope~Believe Foundation  Cincinnati, Ohio  Designed and developed internet web site for non-profit organization.  Web site provides increased visibility for foundation allowing them to more efficiently communicate with the public. Site developed using HTML and Adobe Photoshop. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Dayton - Dayton, OH 2001 Master's in Business Administration with concentration in Marketing University of Dayton - Dayton, OH Skills Informix, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Sqlite, C#, C++, Coding, Html, Javascript, Perl, Scripting, Software development, Visual basic, Asp, Css, Dhtml, Macromedia, Android, Git, MYSQL Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS:    • Leading groups of engineers and business analysts toward timely completion of a common goal.  • Development of mobile applications using Universal Windows Platform (UWP) and Android.  • Designing and developing Oracle PL/SQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Informix SQL, SQLite, and Access  Databases and integrating them into mobile and web applications.  • Creating web sites utilizing ASP.Net (VB/C#), Classic ASP, CSS, HTML, DHTML, DLL's, COM, DCOM,  JavaScript, jQuery, Windows Scripting Host, Macromedia Flash, and Visual Basic  • Familiarity and experience programming in and using all major operating systems  • Software development in C, C++, C#, Perl, Java, QBASIC, Visual Basic, Dynamics, AHDL  • Assembly coding: MIPS, IBM System/360, MC68000, and Intel 8086