WEB DEVELOPER <span class="hl">WEB</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> WEB DEVELOPER - Fullstack St. Louis, MO A broad background in web development with extensive experience in building performant, custom web sites and server systems from concept to completion. Proven record of working with others and independently to solve problems. Fluent in programming languages C, C++, Javascript/Node, PHP, and HTML, CSS, XML and more. Server configuration with Apache, Nginx and others. Knowledgeable with graphics and design including typography. Work Experience WEB DEVELOPER Fullstack - Chicago, IL 1993 to Present Created complete, custom web sites from scratch and server hosting systems for entertainment companies and restaurants.  ? Spartan Theatre, Subway Sandwiches, Masterclock, Quality Medical Publishing  ? Monitored multiple server systems for downtime and rapid fixes.  ? Wrote all programming and configuration to include online ticket purchases.  ? Created graphics and design elements to enhance online presentation. SYSTEM ENGINEER Silicon Graphics 1992 to 1992 Technical lead for national sales award in first year.  ? Aided customers by providing technical advice for the purchase of high end technical computer workstations and servers for the graphics market and real-time flight simulators.  ? Wrote software to demonstrate the ability of the hardware in comparison to the competition and customer usage.  ? Oversaw installation and support to the technical team. SENIOR ELECTRONIC ENGINEER Bausch & Lomb 1985 to 1992 Lead hardware designer of best selling microprocessor system for a surgical computer used by ophthalmologists around the world.  ? Integrated a real-time operating system into hardware to interface with other applications.  ? Worked with mechanical engineers in the design of the enclosures including cost management.    ELECTRONIC ENGINEER, Integrated Control Systems  ? Designed microprocessor controller systems for vending machines, bill changers and cash registers including writing control software.  ? Supervised technicians in the repair of processor boards and manufacture of new product. Education St. Louis and Washington University School of Engineering. Skills Front End, Javascript, PHP, HTML5, Jquery Links https://stackoverflow.com/users/162698/rob