Sr. iOS Developer Sr. iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. iOS Developer - 7 Eleven Corporate TX, USA 18+ years of overall experience in software industry handling roles in design, development and support for both mobile and web applications on various platforms with specialization in telematics, health, telecom and business domains.    • developing and publishing iPhone/iPad Applications using Swift, Objective-C and Cocoa Touch frameworks.  • web development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and PHP.  • Experience in object-oriented analysis and design with programming patterns including Model View Controller (MVC), delegation, notification, blocks, Key Value Observation (KVO).  • Excellent knowledge in developing utility and enterprise-based application using core data for iPhone/iPad to improve memory overhead and responsiveness of application.  • Strong skills in developing frameworks for In-App Purchase, Remote and Local Push Notification  • Expert in configuring continuous integration servers such as Jenkins and BuddyBuild  • Work experience in application architecture design using UML diagrams  • Expertise in upgrading and integrating iOS and iPhone SDK into third party IDEs  • Extensive working knowledge in deploying RSS, JSON and XML feeds according to industry standards for both mobile and web applications  • Familiar with Cocoa Touch framework, Cocoapods like AFNetworking, Shinobicharts and Social Media APIs such as iAd, and Admob.  • Knowledge of Database, Data Mining and Web Development  • Have technical proficiency in designing, developing, analyzing, deploying and maintaining Hybrid and Mobile Native Apps.  • Work experience in supporting and maintaining application releases in code base on version control repositories such as SVN, CVS and GitHub  • Support experience involving code review and ticketing systems using HP Quality Center, Jira, Jama and Bugzilla  • Hands on experience in backend web development using PHP & MySQL.  • Experience with practice and procedures followed in an Agile project, Test Driven and Water Fall development life cycle  • Self-motivated, proactive and enthusiastic team learner with proven technical skills  • Strong interpersonal, organizational communication, customer service & presentation skills.  • Excellent at problem resolving, verbal & written communication and teamwork skills. Work Experience Sr. iOS Developer 7 Eleven Corporate - Irving, TX November 2018 to Present Seven Eleven is a market place leader in Retail Industry offering variety of products to customers inside its convenience stores across the world. 7 Eleven Corporate provides store technical support and retail customer experience on various mobile and web platforms through its applications for all the users.    Responsibilities:  • Integrated Apple Pay on iOS and mobile web applications using Stripe SDK.  • Worked extensively with Optimizely iOS SDK to rollout new features and track user analytics.  • Designed architecture for mobile scan and pay feature inside 7 Eleven application.  • Created custom Cocoa pods to design and develop UI components using MVVM design pattern.  • Implemented mobile scan and pay feature inside 7 Eleven app using Scandit iOS framework.  • Created and demonstrated various proof of concepts to product owners related to Voice search.  • Implemented Apple Wallet push notification server using react JS and Heroku.  • Worked on Swirl Beacon integration to integrate store proximity local app notifications.  • Worked on AF Networking framework to integrate various REST APIs into iOS applications.  • Worked on Mac Keychain services to maintain provisioning profiles for all the applications.  • Created NFC Apple Wallet pass to design and develop loyalty membership program inside stores.  • Extensively followed agile scrum practices within team to track development progress on JIRA. Sr. iOS Developer Verizon Wireless Inc - Basking Ridge, NJ May 2016 to November 2018 Verizon Wireless Inc. is the largest wireless telecommunication services provider in USA and is a key subsidiary body of Verizon Communications. Verizon provides technical support to its cellular data users and various other wireless data customers through its iOS, Android and Web applications.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Content Transfer iOS application from scratch using Swift and Objective - C.  • Designed automated application build system using Jenkins Server and Bash Shell scripting.  • Worked extensively with iOS Web Kit and Keychain Services to design Verizon SSO login system.  • Designed various proof of concepts to automate Verizon store advertisements on iPad using ARKit.  • Designed various functionalities in Content Transfer using Bonjour and Toshiba Transfer Jet SDKs.  • Developed a compatible iOS framework so that Content Transfer can be integrated in My Verizon.  • Created and integrated various react native UI components to Content Transfer using Cocoa Pods.  • Implemented customer voice feedback system inside My Verizon app using OpinionLab iOS SDK.  • Developed high user experience iPhone and iPad screens using MVVM design pattern, Protocol Oriented Programming and Core Animation Framework.  • Maintained MDM system of VZ Mobile app on MacOS XC Server integrated with RESTful APIs.  • Implemented UI Automation in Test Driven Development (DOJO model) process with Unit Testing framework and provided internal team demos using Wi-Fi enabled debugging through Xcode 9.  • Integrated various micro web service APIs into My Verizon application payment gateway module.  • Added accessibility support to various complex screens inside the app using UIAccessibility.    Environment: iOS, Xcode 9.2, OpinionLab iOS SDK, Swift 4.0, JSON, Source Tree - BitBucket, CoreData, UIAccessibility Framework, Bonjour, MVVM Design Pattern Sr. iOS Developer Verizon Telematics Inc - Atlanta, GA February 2014 to May 2016 Verizon Telematics Inc., is a Verizon company that provides technical support for automobiles using its high speed network. Telematics branch of Verizon has various automobile fleet vendors under it that offer services to customers through its mobile & web applications that are driven by on board devices.    Responsibilities:  • Integrated MapQuest SDK into the project to develop apps that make use of MapQuest maps.  • Implemented user navigation feature as a standalone static library pod to use in various projects.  • Architect and draw strategies for building map based Mobile applications.  • Designed methodologies to build applications from scratch to submit to App Store.  • Developed Verizon custom Cocoapods to use them across multiple projects inside the company.  • Implemented vehicle clustering feature in Networkfleet using RESTful Elastic Search APIs.  • Integrated Crashlytics, Adobe Analytics and Google Analytics to track user events and crashes.  • Added notification feature to Hum App when user navigation is in background.  • Implemented in app chat feature in NetworkFleet using XMPP framework and Cocoapods.  • Provided support to development teams on integration with other technologies.  • Design iPhone/iPad Application Design and Frameworks.  • Perform quality assurance testing on applications.  • Worked with product team to get requirement based on current system and build a POC app.  • Write flow for applications from starting of application to each minute detail of the process.  • Setup build system for mobile using hockey app, Xcode server and Jenkins.  • Worked in agile development environment - Monthly sprint planning and daily scrum meetings.    Environment: iOS, Xcode 8.0, MapQuest SDK, Cocoapods, Objective-C, Swift 3.0, JSON, Source Tree - Git, CoreData, AVFoundation Framework, Interface Builder, Veracode iOS Developer Carecam Health systems - Conshohocken, PA October 2012 to February 2014 Carecam Health systems is a technology partner for Independence Blue Cross (IBX) assisting patients remotely through its health care application and online health & wellness programs. Carecam app is an iPhone application designed for treating IBX patients suffering from chronic disorders.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed robust framework using Health kit for company's iOS application  • Integrated CareCam application into UrbanAirship IDE to register app for push notifications  • Converted Objective C code running on iOS 7.1 to Swift to provide support for later versions  • Implemented offline feature for application through data caching using Coredata, NSUserdefaults  • Configured continuous integration server for our code base to deploy apps to our private store  • Localized all our application UI screens to Spanish using swift code and storyboards  • Supported our testing teams during application release by analyzing reports from Crashlytics  • Documented requirements for user stories to convert them to functional requirements in Jama  • Created provisioning profiles and device tokens for team members to assist all technical teams.  • Designed more user experience UI screens using xib files, storyboard scenes and swift  • Wrote performance and time profiling unit tests using XCTesting and UI automation frameworks  • Involved in production deployment to app store by monitoring user analytics on fabric  • Worked with various cocoapods to improve application features and framework usage  • Actively participated in code reviews on visual studios through pull requests from teammates  • Followed agile development practices to meet deadlines of this short term project    Environment: iOS 8.4, Xcode 7.1, iOS SDK, Cocoa Touch framework, Objective-C, Swift 2.0, JSON, MS Visual Studio - Git, Sqlite3.0, MS SQL, Swagger, Fabric iOS Developer ConAgra Foods Inc - Baltimore, MD April 2010 to October 2012 ConAgra Foods is one of the largest food processing company serving most of the food needs of America. It aimed at reaching its food dealers through its mobile app Foodies that enables users to make online orders. This application makes use of technical infrastructure of Socialhorous Inc., that provides backend support for most of mobile applications for all food dealers in market.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering and documenting customer requirements from product owners  • Worked extensively with Swift within cocoa touch framework to build app from scratch.  • Played key role in converting iPhone code base to a Universal code base to support iPad.  • Development activities involved parsing data using JSON feeds to display it on app.  • Lead developer for payment and quote features inside the app during final development phase  • Design and implementation tasks involved in making use of MAP Kit framework to develop store locator feature and integrating it in Foodie app that enhances user experience.  • Implemented UI Automation in an Agile Development process with Unit Testing framework.  • Support tasks involved in fixing the bugs raised by testing team through Bugzilla ticket system  • Worked on integrating Facebook and Twitter API for social networking on iPhone application.  • Supported my team members during peer review to customize Table views, Tab bars and navigation bars in Foodies App for iPad devices in first sprint cycle.  • Driven my team members in performing test on the application for memory leaks to improve code quality that helped in fixing relevant bugs and reducing time to deploy the product  • Handled integration of different iPhone firmware to validate the application stability.  • Maintenance activities involved branching and upgrading subsystems to latest releases  • Responsible for code check in to GitHub repository and was first point of contact for deliverables    Environment: iOS 7.1, Xcode 5.1, iOS SDK, Cocoa Touch framework, Objective-C, Swift, JSON, Atlassian - GitHub iPhone Application Developer Fox News LLC - New York, NY January 2008 to April 2010 Fox News is one among the top five cable networks in USA providing news to people around the country 24/7. Fox network targeted to expand its business by providing digital solution to its viewers from past two years and has launched Fox News application for iOS, Android & Windows devices.  Responsibilities:  • Objective-C, Xcode and Storyboards were used for the development of application at hand.  • Developed Live T.V module using Push Notifications and Alert Views  • Integrated LDAP protocol into iOS application using Xcode to develop user account module  • Involved in converting customer requirements to pseudo code during initial phases  • Used UIViews, custom TableViews, and custom TableViewCell to develop user interface for reading sections module which enhanced user experience.  • Implemented custom UITabBarController & UINavigationController for navigation of the app.  • Extensive work involved in development of Live Streaming application using AV frameworks  • Part of the work involved in designing full screen advertisements using iAd kit  • Used NSURL Connection and Grand Central Dispatch to consume data from web services.  • Back end response was JSON based and parsing was done using NSJSONSerialization.  • CoreData Framework was implemented to keep track of user's favorite items  • Worked with Media Player framework as well as HTML 5 video to stream and playback videos.  • Worked with data storage and retrieval using Plist, SQLite3, and core data at ease to improve memory overhead of the app, and increase responsiveness  • Maintenance and support activities for change requests received through Jira ticket system  • Did developer test and fixed bugs in agile project development and management cycle.  • Worked closely within a cross functional team of testers and developers.    Environment: iOS 7.0, Xcode 5.0, AV Foundation framework, Objective - C, SQLite 3.0, GitHub Mobile Solutions Consultant Promatrix Corp - Edison, NJ September 2006 to January 2008 Promatrix Corporation is a technology provider for various platforms delivering its services across the globe in a fast pace to many companies. Time Warner Cable collaborated with Promatrix on a short term contract to develop high speed online streaming Time Warner Cable News hybrid mobile application. This app is a hybrid app which provides best of both native and hybrid development.  Responsibilities:  • Objective-C coding along with iOS SDK under iOS 5.1 environment was used in this Waterfall project development cycle  • Build Hybrid Apps for Associations who use Time Warner Cable online app  • Used Sencha Touch to build the Hybrid App and integrated with PhoneGap/Cordova  • Created wireframes, user interface mockups and functional requirement documents for the product.  • Engineered multiple custom animations, transitions, and UI components  • Worked on Push Notifications sent from the server for news alerts.  • Created and extracted data from database to display it on iPhone using SQLite3.  • Used XML Parser to design data models and parse data from servers.  • Integrated third party frameworks (Facebook, Twitter) to allow users to share their information with their contacts.  • Worked with AFNetworking framework to develop pixel based streaming feature.    Environment: iOS 5.1, Xcode 5.0, Objective-C, AFNetworking framework, SQLite 3.0, PhoneGap, Sencha Touch, HTML 5.0, CSS3, GitHub .NET Web Developer Nokia Solutions and Networks LLC - Bedminster, NJ May 2004 to September 2006 Nokia Solutions and Networks is one of the biggest organization in the world that offers various telecommunication infrastructure around the world. This project was started to develop and support high speed internet browsing Web applications for T-Mobile customers.    Responsibilities:  • Accomplished roles as Developer and Tester in an Agile Project management cycle  • Involved with architects to design the architecture for the application using UML diagrams.  • Development role mainly involved in working with python TCL-Tk tool kit to implement video live streaming application based on RSTP - RTP socket programming  • Developed python framework Web services for back end users to integrate server applications.  • Worked on CVS version control system to maintain updated releases in code base  • Design and developed ASP.NET pages with web server controls, 3rd party controls and user controls.  • Played a key role in deploying web services on the backend server that runs Java Scripts  • Implemented validation using validation controls and JavaScript client side validation.  • Standard designs and styles were implemented in the application using CSS.  • Involved in the development of business logic, data Access layer and presentation layer.  • Used XML/XSLT to transform the xml page to HTML or another format into XML.  • Created Stored Procedure, Trigger, Cluster indexes for database access and events using SQL.  • Extensively involved in System Verification testing on the account management module  • Worked on the enhancement of applicatiosn and resolving errors after UAT (user acceptance testing).    Environment: C#, Python, ASP.Net 3.5, OOPS, Web Services, Sql Server 2008, ADO.NET, .NET framework 3.5, XML HTTP, AJAX, XML, XSLT, HTML, Ajax, Javascript Jr. Web Developer Red Nova Labs - Westwood, KS February 2002 to May 2004 Red Nova labs is one of the fast growing company established in and provides many web services and personal data storage cloud services to many users all over USA. It develops web services to millions of users on its proprietary storEdge platform using PHP, JavaScript and Ruby.    Responsibilities:  • Development experience involving Test Driven Project Development methodology.  • Provide Internet related services including Website design, front-end web development, domain name registration and web hosting.  • Design and deploy web services to integrate APIs with cloud platforms such as iCloud, Amazon and Microsoft Azure.  • Code design using Perl and Verilog HDL scripting to design object oriented web services  • Designied web templates, banners, advertisements using Photoshop, Dreamweaver and Flash.  • Template conversion to CSS/(X) HTML.  • Built the XHTML templates and cascading style sheets (CSS) for the front end of the application.  • Applied advanced HTML, JavaScript and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Re-skinning of existing web sites that are compatible with existing RSS feeds.  • Created graphics including icons, banners and logos using Visual Basic tool.  • Designing and optimizing graphics for corporate client sites.    Environment: Visual Basic, HTML/DHTML/XHTML, JavaScript, CSS and FTP Client. Education Bachelor's Skills CORDOVA, IOS, IPAD, IPHONE, PHONEGAP, SOAP, XCODE, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, C++, Git, JSON, OBJECTIVE C, PERL, PYTHON, SCRIPTING, SVN, SWIFT, VERILOG, XML Additional Information Technical Skills    Frameworks MapKit, HealthKit, Cocoa Touch, Cocoapods, MapQuest, PhoneGap/Cordova, UIAccessibility, PassKit  IDE Xcode, MyEclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, Apache, Tomcat  Web Services JSON, XML, RSS, RESTfulAPIs (Elastic Search APIs)  Sub Versions SVN, CVS, Git  Databases SQLite3, Oracle 9i/10g, PL-SQL, Core Data for iOS, PostgreSQL  Language/scripting/markup Languages Swift, Objective C, C, C++, Socket programming with C, Verilog HDL / Linux Shell, Perl, Python, XML, React Native Java Script  Reporting/Other Tools HP Quality Center, Citrix, VNC, Putty, Jama, JIRA, Postman, Swagger  Operating Systems MAC OS X, Windows, Linux, iPhone / iPad OS, Windows Server, XP  Protocols SOAP, TCP/IP, HTTP, UDP/IP, SSH and FTP