Facility Security Facility Security Decatur, GA Work Experience Facility Security University of Arizona's Department of Campus Recreation - Tucson, AZ April 2018 to Present Modeled department values, priorities, and expectations while displayed outstanding customer service skills.  Enforced Campus Recreation policies and provided alternative solutions.   Assisted patrons and campus recreation staff in need of help and to facilitate their needs.  Web Manager/ Developer University of Arizona's Confluencenter for Creative Inquiry - Tucson, AZ June 2017 to December 2017 Maintained the current University of Arizona's Confluencenter website layout and design while also ensuring the usability and accessibility for all users. Created, added and managed web content using Drupal 7 and Cpanel servers.   Remodeled the website using Drupal 7, HTML, CSS so new users can look and use the information with ease; improved some of the looks so it's more visually appealing.  Assistant Web Designer/Marketing University of Arizona’s Native Nation’s Institute - Tucson, AZ October 2016 to May 2017 Responsible for maintaining the current University of Arizona’s Native Nation’s Institute website. Utilized Drupal 7 in order to transfer old resources and add new resources to the website so new users can see it in the front page.  Web Programming Design Internship Movement Marketing Company - Tucson, AZ May 2016 to August 2016 Created websites for different kinds of stores such as restaurants, women’s clothes, and ecommerce that require new future oriented communication methods while programmed in HTML, CSS.  Learned how to implement new website formats while using Wordpress and it's website functions.  Education Bachelor's in Entrepreneurship University of Arizona - Tucson, AZ January 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Information Science & Technology University of Arizona - Tucson, AZ August 2014 to May 2019 Skills Word, Organizational Skills, Customer Service, C++, Python, SQL, Team Leader, Project Management, C Groups SHPE (Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers) August 2017 to Present Phi Delta Theta January 2016 to May 2018 Residence Hall Association August 2014 to May 2015