Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Developer - Carnegie Hall Jersey City, NJ Experienced senior full stack developer with a demonstrated history of working in the performing arts industry. Strong engineering professional skilled in ASP .NET, Sitecore, and C#. Work Experience Senior Web Developer Carnegie Hall November 2012 to Present Integrate Algolia into Sitecore, our new CMS. This included updating the backend provider as well as writing a Vue.js frontend for three different searches. A header search, a faceted event search, and our main site search.  ? Working from inVision prototypes implement page layouts using Sass.  ? Working with our implementation partner, learn and be able to work on our new CMS system.  ? Implemented new standards for passwords to reduce user registration friction and improve security.  ? Research and suggest SaaS solutions to improve daily work load and the site.  ? Work closely with the Digital Content team to determine custom website functionality needs to improve content discoverability and engagement. This included writing code for new functionality within the CMS for a blog archive and popular blog post widget with Google Analytics integration.  ? Write new ticketing coding functionality between the website and Tessitura using SOAP/REST. Including creating a new page that registers students for our student discount program.  ? Support the Carnegie Hall site resolving daily problems and fixing any coding errors in C# ASP.net.  ? Refactored our buy buttons to be simpler by giving them each a unique case. I also used Dapper to speed them up.  ? Refactored our internal Performance and Series objects reducing the functions that are required to get the data.  ? Migrated code to git and setup Atlassian Bamboo for continuous integration. Computer Scientist 8 Enroute Computer Solutions August 2008 to November 2012 Solely dedicated to support the Federal Aviation Administration at the William J. Hughes Technical Center  ? Supported and enhanced the ADAS application used by FAA technicians across the United States to monitor weather and weather related events.  ? Repaired any coding errors in ADAS to maximize end user experience and functionality.  ? Handled second level support calls from national FAA sites.  ? Created a protocol analyzer for national field sites with a front end in QT and C which allows users to monitor HDLC weather circuits.  ? Streamlined new hardware setups with automated Bash scripts to significantly reduce workload and complete setups quickly.  ? Travelled to 5+ national FAA sites to provide onsite support and training during roll out of new ADAS software.  ? Developed an Automated Install Manager in Java and configured with XML to streamline installs and simply failover processes. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Rowan University - Glassboro, NJ May 2008 Skills C# (8 years), Git, Html (10+ years), Javascript, .NET (7 years), Bash, Linux Links https://github.com/peppage