Wordpress Development and Maintenance Wordpress Development and Maintenance I am a creative web developer and programmer, specializing in WordPress (and the DIVI theme), with 20 years’ experience. I can build or enhance user friendly websites, applications, eCommerce sites & marketing efforts. Winter Park, FL Work Experience Wordpress Development and Maintenance TaxProMarketer - Overland Park, KS March 2012 to Present • Maintain and troubleshoot 200+ Wordpress websites for tax marketing firm.  • Moved TPM platform and all websites from Hostgator to Siteground.  • Build all new websites based on template designs (child themes I designed).  • Created a consistency to updates, design, security and plugins.  • Increased productivity of workflow for maintaining the websites. Freelance Web Developer ByEnvision - Winter Park, FL May 2003 to Present • Create websites with original graphic design, layout, navigation, scripting.  • Website migration, custom web programming, plugin development.   • Ecommerce & payment gateways.   • Email marketing.  • High fidelity design and wireframes.   • Elance and Upwork (formerly Elance) freelancer. Elance with 74 web related jobs completed with 5.0-star rating and100% recommendation. Senior Program Developer 800 Adept, Inc & IVR Technology - Altamonte Springs, FL January 2000 to August 2017 • Design current in-house and client web applications, web sites, client report templates, and sales presentations, for a call routing telecom company.  • Created front and back end online client utilities and real-time in-house applications with ASP and FoxPro.   • Utilized Crystal Reports to design corporate call detail and billing templates, with automation scripting.  • Designed all 800 Adept and IVR Technology websites and landing pages.  • Integrated Hubspot into IVR Technology websites & email marketing campaigns.  • IVR Technology purchased 800 Adept in 2014, in 2017 began relocating all of 800 Adept business to Buffalo. Education M.A. in Business Florida Metropolitan University - Orlando, FL August 2000 to May 2004 B.S. in Computer Sciences & B.S Florida Metropolitan University - Orlando, FL March 1996 to April 2000 Skills CSS3, Javascript, PHP, Wordpress, HTML5, MYSQL, Website, Wordpress, JQuery, SAAS, Basecamp, Content Development, Content Management Systems, SQL, Adobe Creative Suite, Photoshop, Fireworks, Illustrator, Ecommerce, Email Marketing, Site Migration, Google Analytics, ManageWP, DIVI