Co-founder, Product Manager Co-founder, Product Manager Education Work Experience Co-founder, Product Manager 2014 to Present Produced SmartSpeech, tablet software targeting parents and children. Software is  Room to Sprout, Fremont uniquely context-sensitive. PlayLock, a second title under development, is due S14.  2014 - Present  • Spoke to customers, conducted market research, wireframed, produced  specifications for engineering. Mobile Developer Zoosk Inc - San Francisco, CA 2012 to 2013 San Francisco by developing the #1 Dating App. Grew Daily Active Users 2x.  2012-2013  • Actively managed and derived product ideas to improve rating. Ratings up 10%  year-over-year.  • Specialized in handling the platform limitation intablets/phablet/phone and device  fragmentation.  • Contributed to Zoosk's open-source library. Integrated with 3rd party library:  Proposed product initiatives Facebook, PayPal, Google Maps, Foursquare, ActionBarSherlock.  that went "live": widgets, • Paid great attention to transition animation and cra ing a pixel-perfect implemen- increasing stickiness of app, tation  improving App Store ratings,  rich notification, UX • Introduced Product Management to Android team ViewPager, rich notification,  re-evaluation. support package, slide-in le navigation, Holo theme, cross-app intents, all of which  were made into specifications and implemented. Web Developer Electronic Arts, Redwood City 2011 to 2012 from Maxis Studio. Determined user workflow and wireframed for an online store  2011-2012 for virtual goods and leaderboard. Web Developer Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA 2007 to November 2008 San Jose Managed assets, resources and spoke to localization vendors.  2007, 2008-11 Lead, So ware Engineering E la Carte Inc As lead, quarupled the team (9 engineers currently) responsible for the all clients  E la Carte Inc., Redwood City (Android tablet, mobile, QT). Built mobile client from ground up, scaling to >100,000  2013 - Present physically deployed clients on restaurant tabletops.  • Designed architecture, led client sprint planning, deployment planning and some  project management.  • Participated in aggressive revenue ideation and AB testing. Led engineering-driven  product initiatives. 2 of my ideas stuck and increased revenue by 15%.  • Worked directly with PM's and Data Scientist. Developed in-house analytics (similar to Google Analytics) framework, and framework that allows highly flexible A/B testing.  1  Where I had the strongest  • Shipped a total of 15 game titles to populate internal store (kickoff-to-deployment).  product impact:  monetization features, • Wrote specifications and implemented SDK for 3rd-party- developers. Featured on rapid prototyping, AB TechCrunch.1 Created an open-platform framework.  testing, UX, scoping, project • Formalized UX processes to facilitate collaboration betweeni designer and engineer.  management, wearables,  SDK • Developed product concept and prototyping including wearables. Iterated on several  concepts that rolled into production.  1  "Restaurant Tablet Provider E La Carte Opens Up To Outside Developers", TechCrunch Education BSE in Computer Engineering University of Michigan - Ann Arbor - Ann Arbor, MI 2008