Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Developer Keller, TX ? Subject matter expert in retail website development using Microsoft full stack.  ? Strong background in Microsoft Web Development Technologies with over 20 years' experience  developing .NET, enterprise applications for Windows and the Web.  ? Seasoned IT professional with excellent problem solving skills, extensive experience in full development  life cycles, Agile, project and team management experience, and a strong business acumen.  ? Worked with a variety of Fortune 500 & 1000, national and international retailers in development,  management, and advisory roles. Work Experience Senior Web Developer GameStop Corp May 2016 to April 2018 Team lead on the eCommerce Quick Response Team. Utilized the following technologies: Full Microsoft Stack w/  Commerce Server, SharePoint 2013, SSIS, Google Analytics, ServiceNow, Jira, Endeca, VS2013, C#, MVC, Azure,  Anjular, AngularJS, AWS and Code tools, New Relic, Jira, Team City, Git, Chef, Octopus, REST, Web Services API,  DevOps, EDI, XML, SOAP.    • Serve as team lead for a team of 2 internal and 3 off-shore developers.  • Responsible for production support for gamestop.com desktop, mobile site, and mobile app.  • Defined the Problem Management process for the team to work problems from identification  through resolution.  • Integral team member for holiday performance testing and improvement.  • Serve as subject matter expert for all Microsoft Commerce Server and Oracle Endeca problems  and incidents. Business Analyst, Ecommerce Seale Consulting July 2015 to November 2015 Utilized the following technologies: VS2013, C#, XML, SOAP, MS Project.  • Responsible for Business Analysis and client configurations for travel management. Senior Web Developer Seale Consulting September 2009 to November 2015 Seale Consulting provides business consulting services ranging from Management Coaching to Web Development.    Clients: Senior Web Developer Seale Consulting October 2013 to October 2014 Utilized the following technologies: Full Microsoft Stack w/ Commerce Server, VS2013, C#, MVC, WCF,  Web Services API, EDI, XML, SOAP, MTM, MS TFS, CSS, Javascript.  ? Responsible for Business Analysis and testing effort for retail website conversion project.  ? Developed the overall test plan, with use cases, test scenarios, and test plans in Microsoft Test  Manager (MTM). Senior Web Developer, Consultant Gateway Church October 2013 to June 2014 Technologies: C#, SQL Server, SSIS, SSRS, Great Plains Dynamics & 365, MS RMS, Web Service API,  SharePoint.  ? Ecommerce consulting, analysis, and development in Microsoft Retail Management System  (RMS), SQL Server, and SSIS.  ? Responsible for all aspects of bookstore and café POS application support and enhancement.  ? Resolved operation critical Gift Card, catalog, transaction, and order integration issues. Senior Web Developer, Business Analyst MetroPCS January 2013 to March 2013 Technologies: ATG, Endeca, MS Project, C#, Oracle DB, SQL Server, Web Services  ? Project management and analysis for retail Ecommerce website enhancements in an ATG  Ecommerce environment.  ? Responsible to the Director of Ecommerce as the interface between IT and the Marketing  Ecommerce team on their critical transition project. Ecommerce Consultant, Project Manager Michaels Stores June 2012 to November 2012 Technologies: DemandWare, C#, Oracle DB, SQL Server, Web Services, MS Project, SSRS  ? Project oversight for $1.1M Marketing & IT budget for Ecommerce projects including customer  facing Online Class Registration web app, eGift Card implementation and Gift Card program  transition, and SKU Onboarding process improvement.  ? Responsible for all aspects of project delivery, technical and financial. Senior Web Developer Lincoln Electric August 2011 to November 2011 Technologies: Full Microsoft Stack w/Commerce Server, C#, Web Services, SSRS, SSIS, ASP, WinForms, CSS,  JavaScript, HTML, XML, XSLT, XSD, EDI  ? Extended and enhanced the Commerce Server 2009 Catalog Manger application.  ? Architected and developed a Catalog import and export tool using SQL  ? Performed troubleshooting and issue resolution for Commerce Server Staging. Senior Web Developer, Advisor Schlumberger January 2010 to April 2011 Technologies: Full Microsoft Stack w/Commerce Server, SharePoint 2007/2010, C#, Web Services, WFC,  MVC,. SSRS, SSIS, CSS, JavaScript, HTML, XML, XSLT, XSD, EDI, Google Analytics, Visual Studio 2010, TFS,  SOAP, Mobile Apps  ? Served as technical lead for the team that developed, launched, and maintained the Ocean Store  website. The successful launch of the store website in May 2010 earned the team the Gold  Award for Excellence.  ? Architected and developed the Microsoft Commerce Server 2009 and SharePoint 2007 online  store website, including all facets from installation, development, deployment, performance  tuning, and on-going maintenance and enhancement.  ? Designed and developed a software licensing and certificate management system, and integrated  with the team's custom developed Order Management System, using SharePoint 2010 and ASP.net. Immedient -Senior Consultant British Telecom January 2005 to September 2009 At BT Professional Services, I was the subject matter expert for Commerce Server, assisting with RFP responses and mentoring developers, while exceeding utilization expectations at the clients listed below. My primary Subcontract through RazorEdge Consulting - Senior Web Developer, SharePoint Developer Microsoft Consulting Services November 2007 to October 2008 Clients:    Agilent, Life Sciences and Chemical division, ( www.chem.agilent.com ) - Senior Web Developer  Technologies: Full Microsoft Stack w/Commerce Server, C#, Web Services, Visual Studio, CSS, JavaScript,  HTML, XML, SharePoint 2007, WFC, MVC, SOAP  ? Gathered requirements from the client, performed business analysis, created Statement of Work  documents, and designed and architected the Commerce Server product catalog.  ? Performed complex development tasks: Developed a user-initiated data extract from the Commerce Server catalog which was stored as a SharePoint document for file management. The  web solution created and modified SharePoint objects and related metabase data  asynchronously on a multi-tier SharePoint, Commerce Server, WCF platform.  ? Developed Web service layer to expose all Commerce Server data and functionality for WCF.  ? Developed SharePoint templates and .Net master pages for the SharePoint site.    ArchBrook Laguna, formerly BDI-Laguna, ( www.mylabstore.com ) - Senior Web Developer  Technologies: Full Microsoft Stack w/Commerce Server, C#, Web Services, Visual Studio, CSS, JavaScript,  HTML, XML, SharePoint 2007, WFC, MVC, SOAP  ? Resolved Commerce Server issues to assist with meeting a critical website launch deadline. Senior SharePoint Developer British Telecom January 2005 to October 2008 and their retail Ecommerce websites, from Jan. 2005 - Oct. 2008.    Clients:  IBC Bank ( www.ibc.com ) - Senior SharePoint Developer  Technologies: Full Microsoft Stack, SharePoint, C#, Web Services, Visual Studio, CSS, JavaScript, HTML,  XML, MVC, SOAP  ? Developed SharePoint templates, web parts, and .Net master pages for a new SharePoint  internet application utilizing SharePoint portal for site content management.    National Pen ( www.pens.com ) - Lead Web Developer  Technologies: Full Microsoft Stack w/Commerce Server, C#, Web Services, Visual Studio, CSS, JavaScript,  HTML, XML, XSLT, XSD, EDI, Oracle DB, SharePoint, WFC, MVC, SOAP, Endeca, Akamai, Google Analytics  ? Continued maintenance and enhancements of three Ecommerce websites built on an ASP.NET,  Commerce Server platform.  ? Served as the internal subject matter expert for Commerce Server and web-related issues.  ? Worked closely with business users in an advisory role regarding retail Ecommerce best practices  and standards, including SEO, usability, availability, and CRM.  ? Architected and developed the solution to move two websites from a Content Management  Server/Commerce Server platform to a Commerce Server only platform.  ? Technical lead and architect of project team to upgrade and consolidate all international retail  sites to single Commerce Server 2007 platform.  ? Integrated third party technologies including CyberSource for payment processing, Scene7 for dynamic imaging, Celebros for product searching, eDialog for email marketing, and Google  analytics; and integrated with Oracle for order processing and fulfillment.  ? SharePoint intranet portal development.    Harold's ( www.harolds.com ) - Senior Web Developer  Technologies: Full Microsoft Stack w/Commerce Server, C#, Web Services, Visual Studio, CSS, JavaScript,  HTML, XML, XSLT, XSD, EDI, Oracle DB, MVC, SOAP, Google Analytics  This leading retail corporation founded in 1948 sells high-quality, fashion-forward clothing to customers with discriminating tastes throughout the Southern, Midwestern, and Western states. This company  contracted with BT-INS to support their current Ecommerce multi-brand website built on a Microsoft  Commerce Server platform, and add an additional brand to their platform.  ? Gathered requirements from the client, overseeing solution delivery, and managing customer  expectations.  ? Designed and developed solutions a multi-brand site on a single platform.  ? Architected and developed campaigns and custom Commerce Server pipeline components.    Pearson Assessments , ( www.pearsonassessments.com ) - Senior Web Developer  Technologies: Full Microsoft Stack w/Commerce Server, C#, Web Services, Visual Studio, CSS, JavaScript,  HTML, XML, XSLT, XSD, EDI, Oracle DB, SharePoint, MVC, SOAP  ? Architected and developed solution to enhance multi-cultural capabilities on Content  Management Server/Commerce Server platform.  ? Designed and developed solutions for multi-cultural and multi-brand sites.  ? Developed custom Commerce Server pipeline components for discounts and shipping. Department Manager, Ecommerce Zale Corporation February 2001 to January 2005 Technologies: Full Microsoft Stack w/Commerce Server, VB, C#, Web Services, SharePoint, Visual Studio, CSS,  JavaScript, HTML, XML, XSLT, XSD, EDI, OMS, MVC, SOAP, SQL Server Analytics, Google Analytics, Web Trends  ? Led a team of 7 senior-level IT professionals and 10-12 third-party consultants, including web developers,  DBA's, systems engineers, and business analysts. The team was responsible for the full development life  cycle and production support for two Ecommerce web sites, six marketing web sites, an order  management and fulfillment system, and various custom support applications.  ? Managed outsourced projects, development teams, RFP process, and budgets for multiple vendors  concurrent with internal development initiatives.  ? Interacted with eight business teams for requirements gathering, project management, and solution  delivery on multiple simultaneous development projects and application support.  ? Architected solutions to host multiple web site store fronts on a single code base, database and fulfillment  system using .NET technologies, Commerce Server 2002, Microsoft Great Plains, and Optum MOVE.  ? Supervised data warehousing and mining using Commerce Server Business Analytics.  ? Created data models and stored procedures in SQL Server 2000 for web applications and custom support  applications.  ? Integrated the web applications, fulfillment system, content management and product catalog  management tools, and various custom support applications.  ? Performed troubleshooting and timely problem resolution for mission critical applications. Senior Web Developer Buchanan Associates April 1998 to January 2001 Technologies: VB, Visual Studio, SQL Server, XML, ASP, Site Server, Commerce Server, SharePoint, CSS, DCOM.  ? Managed and developed web applications for all internal operations using ASP, VB/COM Objects, SQL  Server, Site Server 3.0, XML, DHTML, and CSS.  ? Integrated human resource and accounting client/server applications with a customized web time and billing system. Education Psychology Henderson State University - Arkadelphia, AR 1991 to 1992 Psychology Louisiana State University - Baton Rouge, LA 1988 to 1991 Skills C# (10+ years), Commerce Server (10+ years), SharePoint (10+ years), XML (10+ years), Angular (2 years), Azure (2 years), AWS (2 years), .NET (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), SSIS (10+ years), SSRS (10+ years), REST (10+ years), WCF (10+ years), MVC (10+ years), XML (10+ years), Endeca (6 years), Web Services (10+ years), microservices (8 years), JIRA (2 years), DevOps (2 years), SCLD (10+ years), Agile (10+ years), Scrum (10+ years), Microsoft Full Stack (10+ years), Git (5 years), Order Management (10+ years), ERP (10+ years), Enterprise Architecture (10+ years), Management (5 years), Team Leader (10+ years), Ecommerce (10+ years), Retail (10+ years), CRM (10+ years), Content Management (10+ years), Product Catalog Management (10+ years), Business Analysis (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Team Building (6 years), Consulting (10+ years), Advising (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses MCSD ITIL Additional Information SKILL SETS    ENTERPRISE SERVERS/APPLICATIONS:  Microsoft Commerce Server (Site Server 3.0 - CS2009 R2 / 2011), SharePoint 2007-13, WCF, MVC, MS Project,  SQL Server, SSRS, SSIS, Great Plains Dynamics & 360, MS Test Manager (MTM), ServiceNow, Jira, Endeca    DEVELOPER TECHNOLOGIES/TOOLS/CLOUD:  Visual Studio.NET, C#, VB.NET, MVC, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, HTML/DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, EDI, XML, XSLT, XSD,  SOAP, REST, Web Services API, DevOps, Angular, AngularJS, microservices, Azure, AWS, AWS CodeBuild, AWS  CodeDeploy, AWS CodePipeline, MS TFS, New Relic, Jira, TeamCity, Git, Chef, Octopus, SDLC, Agile, SCRUM    ECOMMERCE STRATEGIES:  Order Management and Fulfillment, Partner Affiliations, Email Marketing, Site Usability, Information Architecture,  Site Performance and Availability, Search Engine Optimization (SEO), Paid Search Marketing, PCI and Legal  Compliance, Customer Relationship Management (CRM), and Catalog Product Development and Management.