LOGISTICS MANAGER LOGISTICS MANAGER LOGISTICS MANAGER - NetworkEquipment.net Tuttle, OK Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience LOGISTICS MANAGER NetworkEquipment.net - Oklahoma City, OK 2006 to July 2019 ·     Tracking incoming shipments & signing for them upon delivery.  ·     Prioritizing receipt of shipments based on service type or time sensitivity.  ·     Multi-tasking between several job duties throughout the day, as well as between two different workstations via remote desktop.  ·     Ensuring accuracy for shipping labels & taking record of quality and quantity of boxes, crates& pallets received.  ·     Administering quality control protocols for all incoming merchandise and notifying appropriate sales representative of any damaged, counterfeit or generic equipment received.  ·     Receiving incoming merchandise into inventory database software, notating and comparing identifying information such as part numbers, tracking numbers, serial numbers, & quantities on the Purchase Transaction and making adjustments as needed.   ·     Receiving RMA’s, notifying appropriate sales representative of receipt of merchandise, gathering additional information to determine reason for RMA if known, and working with the tech department & sales rep for customer resolution.   ·     Pulling & Packing merchandise to be shipped. Assembling cardboard boxes or wooden crates / pallets. Placing merchandise in the boxes with protective padding. Taping, nailing or strapping boxes to secure shipment. Affixing shipping labels, invoices, packing slips & warning labels to boxes.  ·     Creating shipping labels via the web or Shiprush shipping software. (UPS, FEDEX, USPS, DHL)   ·     Assessing and ordering shipping supplies: boxes, envelopes and packing materials, and other supplies as needed.  ·     Conducting routine inventory audits and updating database accordingly.  ·     Operating and maintaining Instapacker Tabletop System (foam packing system). Maintenance of Instapacker Tabletop System as well as installation of new parts. Ordering parts and chemical.  ·     Performing preventative maintenance on facility equipment.  ·     Troubleshooting equipment issues & determining appropriate solutions.  ·     Configuring, managing and upgrading software and hardware.  ·     Conducting tests & resetting routers, switches, WAPs and firewalls. WEB DEVELOPER ASSISTANT Phase Two September 2005 to November 2005 Internship) As a Web Developer Assistant my duties included assisting in the creation of new Web sites for Phase Two's clients. I also updated current Websites with text, graphics, and applied different formats. WEB DEVELOPER ASSISTANT Grit March 2005 to May 2005 Internship) As a Web Developer Assistant, my duties included assisting in updating the Sgt. Grit Marine Specialties Website. I added new content, products, and page layout. I also updated various graphics and text. Education ASSOCIATE'S in Web Designer/ Developer Rose State College 2003 to 2005 Certificate in Electronics Eastern OK County Vo-Tech 1994 to 1996 Skills Cisco, Information Technology, Computer Repair Certifications/Licenses Electronics Certificate May 1996 General Electronics Certificate - E.O.C. Vo-tech