SQL Server and Web Developer SQL Server and <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> SQL Server and Web Developer Knoxville, TN • Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) SQL Server 2012.  • Full life cycle experience on several projects (Design, Develop, Test, Deploy, Support).  • 8+ years experience in Microsoft SQL Server (Transact SQL, Data Normalization, Stored Procedures, Dynamic SQL, ETL (SSIS and DTS), Report Builder).  • 4+ years experience in SAP Business Objects Business Intelligence Reporting.  • 8+ years experience in web development (ColdFusion, Classic ASP, ASP.Net, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery).  • Adobe Certified Expert (ACE) ColdFusion 8.  • Passed Oracle PL/SQL exam.  • Experience in Agile Rapid Application Development.  • Strong Search Engine Optimization (SEO) experience.  • Heavy requirements gathering experience.  • US Government Security Clearance.  • Willing to relocate. Willing to travel.    Databases  • Microsoft SQL Server (2000 through 2016)  • Microsoft Access (including VBA)  • Oracle 9i    Reporting Software  • Business Objects  • Microsoft Access  • Microsoft Excel    Web  • ColdFusion  • Classic ASP  • ASP.Net  • HTML  • JavaScript  • JQuery  • CSS  • AJAX  • Highcharts  • Eclipse  • ColdBox Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server and Web Developer Contract Assignment - Knoxville, TN June 2018 to Present Contract assignment to add functionality to current system. Oracle PL/SQL and Web Developer NIPSCO - Merrillville, IN April 2018 to May 2018 Merrillville, IN.  • Contract assignment to add functionality to operational reports. SQL Server and Web Developer Shumate HVAC Services - Atlanta, GA July 2014 to November 2017 • Optimized system performance by converting web queries to SQL Stored Procedures, creating table indexes, and improving queries.  • Built a mobile app for HVAC service technicians to use on service calls.  • Built a call center dashboard for call volume monitoring.  • Built a Tech-On-The-Way alerting system to notify customers.  • Enhanced the functionality of several applications.  • Performed Search Engine Optimization for the company website. SQL Server and Web Developer Child Care Education Institute - Atlanta, GA December 2012 to April 2014 • Converted raw web code to Stored Procedures and table driven processing in several applications.  • Enhanced existing applications per customers requests.  • Added new modules. SQL Server and Web Developer HomeworkGrader.com - Knoxville, TN March 2012 to November 2012 Knoxville, TN.  • Built an online homework grading system that gave teachers the ability to create self-grading essay and multiple choice quizzes for their students.  • Performed Search Engine Optimization for the company website. SQL Server and Web Developer University of North Carolina Research - Chapel Hill, NC May 2011 to February 2012 North Carolina.  • Built a web-based tool for veterinarians to record and monitor animal care visits.  • Built an animal weight recording tool to facilitate compliance with Federal animal research requirements.  • Built a tool to manage inspections of research laboratories.  • Replaced MS Access applications with ColdFusion/SQL Server applications. MS Access Developer Versatrim Manufacturing Company - Henderson, NC April 2010 to April 2011 • Migrated Access databases to SQL Server.  • Added functionality to MS Access databases used for reporting and inventory management.  • Normalized the databases to improve efficiency and maintainability.  • Performed Search Engine Optimization for the company website. SQL Server, ASP.Net, and MS Access Developer Contract Brooke Army Medical Center - San Antonio, TX May 2008 to March 2010 • Built a patient information viewing tool for the Intensive Care Unit using SQL Server and ASP.Net.  • Built a patient management tool for the Psychology department using SQL Server and MS Access.  • Built SSIS packages to import data from external sources.  • Built SQL Agent Jobs to run the SSIS packages on fixed time schedules.10/07 to 4/08: MS Access Developer Contract Assignment.  Argonaut Insurance, San Antonio Texas.  • Added functionality to an MS Access database to simplify the information gathering process used for quarterly compliance filings. Web and Database Developer AT&T - San Antonio, TX October 2006 to September 2007 • Built a SQL Server/ColdFusion Report Matrix application to facilitate project status reporting to managers.  • Built a SQL Server/ColdFusion application to allow project managers to manage lessons learned on projects.  • Built Business Objects reports to display project information.  • Trained users in Business Objects. MS Access Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX September 2005 to September 2006 • Added functionality to an MS Access database used for managing 5,000 telephone numbers.  • Utilized MS Access VBA modules to improve the functionality of the telephone number database.  • Built charts to provide call volume information for the call centers. MS Access Developer Education Testing Service - San Antonio, TX April 2004 to September 2005 • Built an Access database to allow nationwide departments to submit their hours and costs for proposals.  • Built Access reports to display the proposed hours and costs in a format suitable for the formal bid packages. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration The George Washington University Bachelor of Science in Accounting The University of Nevada - Reno, NV Skills Ssis, ETL, T-SQL, Sql Server, javascript, sql, transform, microsoft ssrs Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) May 2017 to Present SQL Server 2012 Microsoft Office Specialist - Access 2013