NET Developer NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> NET Developer - Credit Suisse Raleigh, NC PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:  • 8years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance of Web Based, Client-Server and N-tier Architectures in domains like Finance, Telecom, Logistics, IT.  • Experienced in a fast-paced Agile Development Environment including Extreme Programming, Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.  • Responsible for designing Presentation Tier ( web pages) using the concepts such as Master Pages, User Controls, Themes, Skins, HTML, XML, CSS, Java Script, J Query and also worked with ASP.NET Custom Controls.  • Experience developing rich GUI using Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) and good working knowledge of Silverlight.  • Experience in using Language-Integrated Query (LINQ) query and retrieve data from different data sources (LINQ to Objects, LINQ to XML, and LINQ to SQL).  • Experience in using ASP.NET AJAX /J Query AJAX framework for quickly creating efficient and interactive Web applications that work across all popular browsers.  • Extensive experience in developing WCF Services to expose useful functionality to web users through SOAP, describing them using WSDL, registering them using UDDI for easy availability to potential users and consuming them.  • Experienced with Microsoft Application building blocks for .Net projects (Data Access, Exception Handling, Caching and Configuration Management Application Blocks).  • Experienced in Service Oriented Architecture [SOA] using Windows communication foundation.  • Expertise in creating web based application using technologies like Classic ASP, AJAX Toolkit, JAVA Script, XML, HTML and DHTML.  • Worked extensively with ADO.NET objects such as Data Adapter, Dataset, and Data Reader to interact with databases like SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 & Oracle 10g/9i.  • Experience in database related work primarily creating complex stored procedure, Views, Triggers, Functions, using PL/SQL, T-SQL.  • Hands-on experience with Reporting Tools SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), creating ETL packages using SQL Server 2005 Integration Services (SSIS)  • Extensive working experience in unit testing framework - NUNIT, MS Unit Tests.  • Excellent Written, Analytical Skills, Verbal Communication skills with a customer service oriented attitude and worked with the offshore team as onsite coordinator to provide the update on the daily basis. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NET Developer Credit Suisse - Raleigh, NC January 2016 to Present Credit Suisse Group is a Swiss multinational financial service holding company, headquartered in Zürich, that operates the Credit Suisse Bank and other financial services investments.  Credit Suisse are undertaking a comprehensive I.T. transformation where many technologies and supporting processes are being optimized and standardized globally. Fundamental to this is a 'greenfield' Active Directory platform which was deployed in 2010 to which all consuming applications and services are migrating. The key benefit of the 'greenflield' approach is the opportunity to introduce globally consistent, best-practice processes around user provisioning, administration & entitlements management. Automation of these processes is a key deliverable. The project is to maintain and enhance a wide range of tools that are used to administer and automate both legacy & strategic Active Directory environments. In addition, integration of AD Services and functions with a wider set of process & tools.  The key benefit of the 'greenfield' approach is the opportunity to introduce globally consistent, best-practice processes around user provisioning, administration & entitlements management.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile (Scrum) Methodology to meet stake holder expectation, timelines with quality deliverables.  • Developed applications following N Tier architecture.  • Involved in User meetings, documented the Change requests.  • Produced high quality, documented C# code on project and enhancement initiatives.  • Designed presentation layer for dynamic web forms using ASP.NET MVC Framework, HTML5, and AngularJS with Visual Studio.  • Implemented CSS3 to improve look and feel of ASP.NET web page.  • Created & hosted WEB API Services for implementing business logic and used different bindings to make it available to different types of clients.  • Worked with different State Management Techniques.  • Implemented Object Oriented Programming concepts such as Polymorphism, Inheritance, and Encapsulation and OOD patterns like Dependency Injection.  • Created and maintained stored procedures, User Defined Functions, Indexes, Views, Tables, Relationships on SQL Server 2012 database as per the client specifications.  • Code testing in local/test environments.  • Performed Unit Testing of the developed component and web forms using Visual Studio.  • Participated in peer code reviews for better quality assurance.  • Created customized dashboards for teams.  • Programming and delivering solutions for different work streams.  • Designed and developed rich user interfaces with ASP.NET MVC 4.0, HTML5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, Angular JS, jQuery, Java script, Ajax.  • Implemented client-side scripting using JavaScript/jQuery and server-side coding using built-in ASP.NET controls and C#.  • Used UI controls that used jQuery to ensure client side validation.  • Used JavaScript and JavaScript libraries such as Angular.JS and Bootstrap templates in developing frontend applications and increasing efficiency of Web pages.  • Created and consumed WCF Services and REST based services to transfer the data among different layers/environments.  • Automated the functionalities with Microsoft Active Directory.  • Created team specific Agile process flow in JIRA to move tasks from one activity to another.  • Used Subversion and Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS) for integration, maintenance, Security of code and as source code repositories.  Environment:MVC, ASP.NET, C#, Entity Framework, Web API, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, AJAX, ADO.NET, LINQ, LINQ to SQL, Lambda Expression, SQL Server, XML, JSON, SVN, TFS, IIS, JIRA, Active Directory, Empower ID Workflow Studio, SQL server Report Builder, Microsoft Office NET Developer Wells Fargo Bank - San Francisco, CA June 2014 to December 2015 Educational Loan Financial Management System is a web based comprehensive software package supporting Student Financial Aid Administration, Loans and Reports.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze and Designed Approaches, UML Use Case, Class Diagram, State Diagram, and Activity Diagram.  • Developed the data layer class using C# which is reusable for data transactions of entire project.  • Used MVC design pattern for developing the application in ASP.NET 3.5.  • Using architectural extensions of Microsoft Enterprise library.  • Used Telerik controls for rich data visualization in developing applications.  • Used ADO.Net to connect the web forms to data sources such as MS SQL Server and Xml files for manipulating data in database.  • Used List, Trees, Toolbars, Menus and Context Menus for navigating between pages in Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF).  • Used the WPF/XAML for the front end and WCF to implement the various services.  • Worked with Grid Controls, sever controls to meet the client requirements.  • Coded using XSLT in generating Student list taking the data from XML document and formatting with XSL.  • Designed and developed various reports using Crystal Reports and gave option to export to Excel and .PDF files. The reports have an option to enter parameter values from the form.    Environment: Visual Studio 2008 IDE, C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, XML, IIS, Crystal Report, SQL server 2008, WPF, Adobe Photoshop. Jr.Net Developer VentechInc - Columbus, OH November 2012 to May 2014 Description:Employee Performance Monitoring System keeps track of employee's presence inside the organization. Employee is given a point for his best performance.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, analysis, and design.  • Created use case diagram, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Visio.  • Developed Business Logic for system module.  • Developed UI Design for system module.  • Created a maintenance plan for regular database backups as well as a process for weekly data transfer between MS Access and SQL Server databases  • Designed different type of reports using Far Point.  • Used Agile (Scrum) model to develop this application.  • Extensively worked with List view, Data List and Data grind controls and reading data from different data sources which includes SQLServer, and Flat files  • Integrated the developed business component with Application  • Used Visual Source Safe for maintaining the Software Configuration and Version  • Worked on SQL Queries, Stored Procedures in SQL Server 2000  • Worked with database team to tune the database for better performance by restructuring the queries and procedures and analyzing the indexes.  • Providing support for the developed of business component  • Performance tuning, Truncation of Data files and log files in SQL  • Created reports using Active reports for various reporting tables and business needs.  • Used ADO.NET extensively to access the SQL Server 2000 database.  • Design and Creation of SQL Server 2000 Database Objects. Created tables, keys, stored procedures and triggers in the database    Environment: UML1.1, Microsoft Visual Studio.Net 2003, C#, XML, Visual Source Safe (VSS), Infragistics, Far Point, Active reports, NDoc and IIS6.0, HTML, Java script, SQL Server 2000. Web Developer UTI Bank LTD - Bangalore, Karnataka June 2011 to October 2012 Description:Smart Tax Collection is a centralized and web based comprehensive software solution for effective functioning of the tax collection department. UTI Bank Ltd. is the one of the tax collection center for statewide. The head office (tax collections) is centralized and situated at Ahmadabad for Gujarat State. It assumes a greater significance because it is a difficult task to maintain the collections at branch levels individually. To reduce the overheads and to increase the efficiency, it is decided to centralize the database and monitor the operations from head office.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in collecting and analyzing the business requirements from the customers.  • Responsible for developing all the front-end screens and the back end database queries for retrieving data and NET Framework 2.0.  • Developed the system front end using C#, ASP.NET 2.0 and HTML and backend using SQL server 2005 as the backend database, Win forms.  • Designed the migration pattern from existing ASP/VB application to ASP.NET/C# Win Forms and .Net Framework 1.1 to NET Framework 2.0.  • Used ADO.NET for retrieving data from backend database SQL Server 2005.  • Implemented and deployed XML Web Services (SOAP) using C#.NET.  • Created dynamic GUIs with .Net web controls and data bound web forms.  • Implemented extreme programming by using fast paced Object Oriented Methodologies, involving in task completion, user stories, and iterations.  • Worked on UI using AJAX for making smaller, faster and user-friendly web-page application.  • Developed Server side programming using C#.NET, ASP.NET 2.0 on .NET architecture.  • Implemented AJAX in order to provide pleasant client side experience.  • Designed XML Schemas and developed XSL and XML gateway.  • Extensively used XSLT language to transform from XML document into HTML web page.  • Investigated bugs and interacted with developers to resolve technical issues.  • Developed testing report, Stored Procedures using SQL Server 2005 and SQL scripts, and DTS packages and Data Modeling.  • Used Microsoft Visual Source Safe (VSS) for all the source code maintenance needs.    Environment: Visual Studio.Net 2005, ASP.NET 2.0, C#, JavaScript, HTML, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2005, XML, XSL, XSLT, Web Service, CSS, IIS, unit testing, NET Framework 2.0. Web Developer Monarch InfoTech Services - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN June 2009 to May 2011 Description: Monarch InfoTech is a professionally managed solution provider maintaining high standards. MITS utilizes state-of-the-art infrastructure, modern technology, well-qualified and experienced human resources with high-end software technologies. MITS span business and technology consulting, application services, systems integration, custom software development, maintenance, re-engineering, independent testing and validation services, IT infrastructure services and business process outsourcing    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering, creating Functional and technical specifications by analyzing the client specifications.  • Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and were coded using VB  • Developed various windows applications by designing forms using forms designer.  • Used Multithreading to develop various applications to maximize the utilization of resources  • Performed coding and debugging using ASP.NET and VB.NET  • Developed Web forms using ASP.NET server controls and validated input using Java Script  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader and Dataset for consistent data access  • Created Database routines, stored procedures and fixed up standard specifications  • Performed Testing using Nunit testing  • Used Crystal Reportsfor developing the reports needed by Middle Office and Back Office users  • Identified, researched, investigated, analyzed, defined and documented business processes  • Involved in Enhancing the Business Layer to provide more interfaces and functions needed for the system    Environment: NET Framework 2.0, ASP.NET, Web Services, VB. NET, Visual Studio .NET 2005, JavaScript, IIS, HTML, DHTML, Crystal Reports, SQL Server 2005 Skills .NET (8 years), ADO (8 years), ADO.NET (8 years), MS ADO (8 years), MS SQL Server (8 years), MVC, ASP.NET, C#, Entity Framework, Web API, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, AJAX, ADO.NET, LINQ, LINQ to SQL, Lambda Expression, SQL Server, XML, JSON, SVN, TFS, IIS, JIRA, Active Directory, Empower ID Workflow Studio, SQL server Report Builder, Microsoft Office,Visual Studio 2008 IDE, C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, XML, IIS, Crystal Report, SQL server 2008, WPF, Adobe Photoshop. (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Web Technologies:ASP.NET, HTML, XHTML, CSS 3 , HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript  • Programming Languages: C#, VB.Net, VBScript, JavaScript, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Databases: MS-SQL Server 2005/ 2008, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services, Crystal Reports  • Technologies:Microsoft .Net Framework, ADO.NET, Entity Framework 6, Web Forms, Silver Light, WPF, XAML, WCF  • Project Management: MS Project, MS Office, MS Visio  • Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports 10.0  • Application/ Web Servers: IIS 7.0/6.0/5.0  • Version Control: MS - Visual Source Safe, MS- Team Foundation Server.  • Development Tools: Visual Studio 2012/2010/2008, Visual SourceSafe 6.0, Microsoft Visio, Expression Blend, Dream Weaver.