Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer UI San Francisco, CA I work with Javascript, React, Vue, Angular, Webpack, Node, PHP, mongoDB, MySQL, HTML5, CSS...  Considering remote and local contracts only. Most of my career I have been consulting with various companies in San Francisco Bay Area. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Google - Mountain View, CA March 2018 to Present Building Google AI image recognition tool. Using web Components Lit Element library by Polymer, Type Script, Python APIs and internal tools. UI Architect Macys.com - San Francisco, CA April 2017 to March 2018 Responsible for guiding teams of engineers to adhere to the common architectural design patterns and coding practices. Evaluating migration to new technologies (View, React, Redux, Redis…). Mentoring developers on daily technical issues. Founder zElement (data visualization service), skyPatrol Pebble SmartWatch app - San Francisco, CA May 2016 to March 2017 Founded, built end-to-end 2 separate products. zElement Data Visualization Service allows users to easily build dynamic, interactive and responsive Charts from their own data. The charts, hosted on zElement can be conveniently embedded and published from outside on blogs, site and etc. The product was build in 2 separate technology sets:  1) d3.js, Backbone, Require, Node, MongoDb on Heroku  2) d3.js, Angular, Require, PHP, MySQL. Deployed to private server.  skyPatrol is a Pebble SmartWatch app allows users to track flights in real-time based on geo location. Also, users can add and track their own flight info. Build on Pebble Platform using Pebble.js, PHP internal and external APIs. UI Architect Cisco - San Jose, CA October 2013 to May 2016 Project: BMC (Business Management on Cloud). Responsible for Architecting Front End, building core features: User Roles, Abstractions, Security, Permissions. Focused on application’s Performance, Scalability, interactive Data Visualization, Responsive Design, Older Browser Support. Mentored other developers. Enforced Agile practices. Director of Front End AT&T - San Francisco, CA September 2011 to October 2013 Project: AIR platform. Responsible for hiring and building a cross functional team that has successfully released a web-based data analytics tool – AIR. The platform transforms Big Data into visual and logical presentation allowing real-time interaction by querying the system and returning powerful and desirable advertising reports. This enables AT&T to gain advantage in the advertising market. I’m responsible for making top level technical decisions such as defining Front End architecture, design and technologies, spearheading and defining rapid development process, hiring, mentoring and supporting new product initiatives. The tool is developed as a single page rendering mechanism focused on JavaScript technologies (Backbone.js, Handlebars.js, D3.js, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Hadoop, BigData). Led team to follow Strict Agile development practices. Sr. Lead Front-End Web Developer Walmart.com - Brisbane, CA August 2010 to September 2011 Projects: Walmart Pharmacy, VUDU. YUI to jQuery migration, UI flows, Checkout enhancements, REST calls and data rendering. Enforced change in development processes that contributed reduction of development time, tech depth (CSS sprites generation, multiple CSS management), performance optimization. Mentored team members and reviewed work from the offshore team. Delegated tasks to team members. Collaborated with other teams across organization. Technologies used: JSP, JSTL, HTML, Ajax, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, cross browser compatibility. Sr. Front-end Web Developer Lead Cisco - San Francisco, CA August 2009 to August 2010 Projects: Reporting Dashboard, Member Update/Add/Remove, Logging Service. enhancements to Members Admin Platform. The feature allowed Ajax communication to retrieve member data for a single-page rendering implementation. Data collection and exchange triggered from user interaction, dynamic or bookmarked URL. Other features: pagination, sorting, form population, dynamic content generation and messaging. Sr. Front-end Web Developer Lead eBay - Brisbane, CA August 2008 to August 2009 Responsibilities  Projects: Guides, Wish-list. Guides is a widget that allowed users to build web custom pages promoting liked products. Users could structure, upload and share their own content in real time, utilizing image and video upload, WZWG text editor, and product selection, drag-and-drop element rearrangement and pagination. Feature included custom form validation. Used OO modular JavaScript. Focused on Performance Optimization. Whishlist allowed users to add products to their account for future purchasing considerations. Piloted jQuery libraries framework. Sr. Front-end Web Developer Lead Barclay’s Global Investors (ishares.com) - San Francisco, CA August 2007 to August 2008 Responsibilities  Projects: iShares Tools, Internationalization. Tools allowed real-time, lazy-load dynamically financial reporting data to be rendered. Required support for older browsers, OO JavaScript. Achieved significant performance by reducing page load from 9 to 2 secs. iShares Mexico involved internationalization, dynamic data grids, data visualization and complex layout generated from CMS.  Sr. Front-end Web Developer Lead Macys.com - San Francisco, CA June 2006 to August 2007 Responsibilities  Project: Find It In Store. The feature allows users to check, in real-time, product availability and find the closest store location based on user's input. Ajax implementation and dynamic data rendering, MapQuest Api integration, dynamic layout manipulation targeting different browsers and ports for the printing a page with a dynamically generated barcode. Sr. Front-end Web Developer Kodak EasyShare Gallery formally Ofoto Inc - Emeryville, CA August 2000 to June 2006 Developed and maintained web apps for the following web sites: www.ofoto.com, www.kodakgallery.com, www.kodakmobile.com, affiliations, desktop client tunnels (Windows XP purchase tunnel, Olympus’ Camedia Camera and Kodak EasyShare Camera Software). Facilitated migration to an XHTML-valid architecture with light CSS support conforming to the cross-browser and platform standards. Implemented code internationalization and localization supporting 12 locales. Worked with content management system to push code independently from releases. Front-end Web Developer/Designer zElement - San Francisco, CA September 1999 to August 2000 Clients: www.simayof.com, nuServe, Allan D. Biller, Actify, Inc, TurboTools and other smaller projects.   Developed and designed consumer-oriented web sites and HTML emails, utilizing XHTML/HTML, CSS, JavaScript technologies, Photoshop and Illustrator. Internet Specialist NUVO (nuvo.com) - Indianapolis, IN June 1997 to May 1999 Coded emails and web site using HTML. Designed NUVO's web site, online and print adds utilizing Photoshop. Education Bachelor of Science in Business in Marketing and Physical Distribution, Logistics Indiana University-Bloomington - Indianapolis, IN 1994 to 1998 Skills JavaScript, ES6, React, Redux, Vue.js, Angular, Backbone, Knockout, Webpack, Require, Grunt, Bower, Responsive Design, Node, PHP, Java, Bootstrap, Material Design, Foundation, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, d3.js, APIs, JSP, Spring, Struts, MongoDB, SQL, Jenkins CI. (10+ years) Links https://jorawebdev.github.io/Web-Development Awards Winner of 2012 AT&T’s LEAP award 2012-09 Winner of 2012 AT&T’s LEAP award. Publications zElement: Web and Mobile Development http://zelement.com 2016-09 zElement: Web and Mobile Development with focus on: UI, Data Visualization, APIs, UI frameworks integration, Responsive Design, Performance, Security.  Here's my latest project: http://zelement.com/clients/selectordemo skyPatrol http://skypatrol.zelement.com/ 2016-09 skyPatrol is a Pebble Smartwatch App.  The app is used for aircraft spotting, air traffic recording, or just for fun to check who's flying over your head. Additional Information My latest project demo: http://zelement.com/clients/selectordemo  More projects: https://jorawebdev.github.io/ Web-Development