Sr. Application Developer Sr. Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Application Developer Woodstock, GA ? Sixteen years of experience in developing software and web applications using .NET technology and C#. This includes, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, XML, XSLT, SQL, Transact SQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS and a small bit of javascript.  ? The past five years have been focused on middle and backend development using the latest .Net technologies WCF, WPF, SOAP & Rest service programming; Win Forms development with Infragistics controls  ? Experience in setup, installation, configuration and maintenance of SQL Server, Internet Information Service, and MSMQ.  ? Experienced at SQL Server administration; Creating Views, tables, indexes, writing stored procedures, transact statements, analyzing sql plans and table joins.  ? Experienced in participating and practicing Agile (Scrum) methodology for software development. I have worked with Team Foundation Server and Version1 to manage the backlog, epics, stories, features, tasks, and defects in 4 week sprints as well as Jira and Confluence.  ? Commonly follow best practices for software design and development including Service Oriented Architecture, Test Driven Design, common software patterns (MVP, MVVM, dependency injection), and industry coding standards. Work Experience Sr. Application Developer SiteOne Landscape Supply October 2015 to August 2019 C#, SQL, Web Services (SOAP & Rest), WCF, Win Forms (w/ infragistics controls), SSIS, SQL, Service Oriented Architecture  ? Integration specialist between multiple applications:  ? Design, build and integrate multiple web service types using WCF (Net.Tcp & Http protocols) and plain HTTP (REST) services between different platforms (Java, Mobile, & .Net)  ? Service testing and debugging internally and externally using tools such as WcfServiceHost, WcfTestClient, SvcTraceViewer, Insomnia, Postman, Fiddler, Charles & Console applications.  ? Add logging, service correlations, event tracing, authorization, and security on all services.  ? Point-of-Service (POS) Application development: Maintained, enhanced and add new functionality to a Point of Service application that is utilized across hundreds of branches including the U.S. and Canada.  ? Manage Security Auditing and maintenance  ? Adding new Win Form Screens complete with data access objects, business objects, data validation, data binding and stored procedures  ? Working with Infragistics controls for databinding  ? Managing complex Pricing system that did real time pricing quotes to the employees and customers  ? Writing, designing, and managing complex sql stored procedures that update Account Receivable balances for Credit department  ? Managing and monitoring database performance with tools like Idera, dynatrace, & SQL Profiler  ? Utilized SQL Profiler for capturing and analyzing SQL requests from unknown sources to identify, troubleshoot, and trace back under performing sql calls to client application.  ? Used Sentry Plan Explorer to analyze SQL statements for performance and improve performance where needed (added new indexes or optimize sql code)  ? SSIS package development for batch processing files. Created SSIS packages to import comma separated files (.csv) into SQL server using SSIS.  ? SVN Source Control Systems with Continuous Integration (Cruise Control)  ? CSLA; Used and inherited a service library that implemented CSLA functions as an ORM with the database. Added new business object, business object validation, and complete save and retrieve data functions. CSLA is a software development framework that helps you build a reusable, maintainable object-oriented business layer for your app. Sr. Application Developer Assurant November 2007 to September 2015 C#, SQL, Web Services, WCF, WPF, Win Forms, SharePoint 2007, TFS 2008, MSMQ, XML, Design Patterns and Practices, SSRS 2005, DB2, Silverlight, Service Oriented Architecture  ? Designed and created WPF client application (with MVP) to replace an existing legacy application in Smalltalk. This project was developed in a team environment of three developers.  ? Plan, design, and assist in developing a departmental import application (Pacman) that allowed import of any file format into multiple databases (DB2 & SQL). Import data and statistics were tracked in a SQL database and used SQL Reporting services to display reports showing daily importation statistics.  ? Maintain, enhance and support existing software based workflow rules system.  ? Build and design a new C# based workflow rule system framework. The framework allowed you to build software style business rules in C# with the flexibility of debugging, versioning and reporting using common development tools. The framework used .Net 4.5 and the task parallel library for speed, efficiency, and optimization of parallelism.  ? Managed and maintained Agile Scrum template for Team Foundation Server 2008. Project SmartFlow Modernization used Team Foundation Server to track the backlog, manage defects, and create reports.  ? Maintain and enhance Silverlight software deployment application (Kong). Kong is web based component and database deployment application. Kong would allow the deployment and configuration of web applications, web services and databases. It had features to copy and configure components and services. It also can install, update, and rollback databases using SQL Management Objects (SMO).  ? Design, collaborate and build C# messaging oriented system that facilitates sending and receiving messages between distributed components. This system used WCF Duplex communications (Net.Tcp), MSMQ for transient/persistence of messages, and asynchronous programming.  ? Design and build classic Web Service (ASMX) architecture for facilitation and data mapping of mortgage data between our client (LPS) and internal business departments (Mortgage, Draft Track, Trackall, and Agilsource). Contractor | Web Application Developer PRG Schultz January 2007 to October 2007 C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, Win Forms  ? Project support and new functionality enhancement development for an internal framework called Claimdex. Migrated classic ASP code to .NET 1.1 on a page by page basis.  ? Supported and enhanced internal client application tool (LetterGen) for generating bulk letters that are converted into PDF, printed and mailed to clients. Added enhancement tools to allow for dynamic paragraph generation.  ? Developed InfoPath Change Management forms for MOSS 2007. The forms were built on top of InfoPath Forms Services.  ? Upgraded existing internal SharePoint Services 2003 to MOSS 2007 where I maintained and administered the intranet for 5 departments.  ? Administered MOSS 2007 for the enterprise. This included entailed creating and supporting sites, managing security access, provide user training and guidance, monitor site usage and reporting, managing content databases and backups and other responsibilities associated with MOSS 2007.  ? Strong Named and managed MS Enterprise Library 2.0 & 3.0 for the development group. Contractor | Web Application Developer Boys & Girls Club of America September 2006 to December 2006 C#, ASP.net, HTML, SQL  ? Project support and new functionality enhancement for Project Insight. Branched out new functional areas for the project based off scoped requirement documents. New functionality written in all C# with ASP.Net front-end. Middle tier development with stored procedures and SQL 2000.  ? Duties included managing project solutions, source code & team support for current and new development team members. Web Application Developer NSPI October 2005 to September 2006 C#, VB.net, ASP.net, HTML, XHTML  ? Architected client - server application to communicate between Windows service and Samsung televisions with socket communications (TCP/IP to RS232).  ? Created mobile application website designed to work on Windows mobile devices.  ? Built, deployed, and managed reports using SQL Reporting Services 2000 & 2005.  ? Provided application and development support for network implementations and software consulting to design, implement, and support solutions for the small to medium businesses.  ? Developing applications with ASP. NET, C# & VB.NET within .NET Framework 1.0, 1.1, & 2.0.  ? Development and administration of SQL Server 2000/2005.  ? Legacy application support for classic ASP/VB, VB6 & Crystal Reports.  ? Installing, deploying, and building SharePoint portal and team service sites for internal customers and external clients. Including managing users and security auditing; building testing, and deploying custom web parts written in C#; Creating document libraries, building InfoPath forms and form libraries and creating custom SharePoint sites.  ? Created online customer support satisfaction survey with ASP.NET & ADO.NET that updated current reporting mechanism and streamlined the data into SQL Reporting services reports to show information broken down by employee and average data. Web Application Support (Short term Contract) Cox Communications July 2005 to October 2005 Short term contract)  ? SQL  ? Maintain and support enterprise level applications using monitoring software to detect systems that are in critical failure mode.  ? Use SQL to run traffic analysis detections on SQL Server 2000.  ? Provide support for COX on demand purchasing via terminals at Best Buy. Entailed troubleshooting product purchasing with housing identifications and fixing failed terminals.  ? Performing monthly product special updates for the internet website.  ? Troubleshooting customer account issues. Internet Developer Trustfile October 2003 to April 2005 C#, CSS, JavaScript, ColdFusion, HTML, XHTML, SQL  ? Successfully planned, designed, integrated and implemented website promotional code system in C#.  ? Created distribution lists for shipping and tracking for thousands of customer orders.  ? Developed and implemented a series of SQL scripts for collecting, filtering and cleaning large volumes of data collected which made analysis much more efficient and lead to highly accurate and very extensive financial reporting.  ? Created extensive reporting techniques to track company financial data into ASP.NET data grids.  ? Maintained primary domain and 2 sub-domains; Developed tracking methods in C# using cookies to display targeted information to customers.  ? Converted and integrated VeriSign payment gateway for online payment system and developed customer refunds and payment crediting system in C#.  ? Developed web pages using user controls to aggregate common page functionality for re-use into all pages using C# classes, code behind files and assemblies.  ? Improved sales staff efficiency by creating reports to automatically build invoices.  ? Optimized website to leverage top 10 ranking in three major search engines.  ? Managed more than 12 highly successful pay-per-click campaigns with Google and Overture.  ? Administered and setup template web page system in C# with user controls for marketing managers to develop web pages and modify copy work using Macromedia Contribute software.  ? Performed website and traffic monitoring to understand customer trends and create targeted content using FireClick. Technical Support Lead / Internet Developer FormsPlus Software November 1997 to September 2003 C#, JavaScript, HTML, XML & XSL, CSS, SQL  Web Development  ? Designed prototype shopping cart system in ASP.  ? Created web forms and developed data verification methods in ASP.  ? Developed navigational system using XML and XSLT for website.  ? Wrote support trouble ticket system to submit software problems using web forms, C#, XML, ADO.NET, XSL, SQL Server 2000.  ? Create simple FAQ system to display question / answer solutions to software problems based on queries. Written in C#, SQL, HTML and CSS.  ? Built online sales tax filing website for tax filers. The site included custom security authentication, user controls, code behind files, SSL, and VeriSign Payment transactions.  ? Integrated 3rd party shopping cart system into primary website.  ? Maintain, upgrade, and support current business website for FormsPlus Software and Andrews, Giuliano and Mussig.  Network Administration  ? Setup and administered small business network in Windows 2000 & Windows NT environments.  ? Installed and maintained Mdaemon email server and Bulletproof FTP server.  ? Perform printer maintenance, repair and replacements.  ? Provided desktop support for employees and corrected hardware and software issues.  ? Provided PC hardware support, repairs and part replacements.  Technical Support  ? Responsible for supporting and troubleshooting sales tax software applications  ? Handle incoming emails, faxes and phone calls on a daily basis to provide high quality support duties.  ? Ensure customer quality assurance and maintain a professional attitude while troubleshooting software issues.  ? Provide client - server technical support and resolve complex technical issues.  ? Performing software testing duties for standalone desktop application and in a client - server environment.    Personal Goals and Development work:  Retirement and Mutual Fund Application: Designed and developed a personal application for downloading mutual fund data and stock ticker numbers. In design, is a new prototype to aggregate mutual fund data and store in DynamoDB in AWS. Current iteration is connecting to Tradeking to retrieve live stock market data and transform and relay to DynamoDB over AWS API.    Game Service API Discovery: In personal interest I've reverse engineered unpacking android APK's and extract the contents for inspection. In conjunction with proxy debugging android phones and tooling with android emulators I gathered and recorded HTTP requests that led to building a custom C# application that connects to a game service Web Api to query game data. Education Bachelors of Arts degree in International Affairs Kennesaw University May 1999 Skills Ado, Database, Db2, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Sql, .net, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, C#, Docker, Enterprise application, Html, Json, Vb.net, Xml, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Http Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Technology and Tools  ? MS Visual Studio.NET 2003-2019; SQL Server 2000-2017; DB2; SQL Reporting Services 2000 & 2005; .NET framework v1.0 - 4.5 incl. Task Parallel Library  ? Additional tools used regularly include ReSharper, Charles & Fiddler (Http proxy debuggers), Insomnia & Postman (Http Rest client test tools), Wireshark (Network Protocol analyzer), Dynatrace (Enterprise Application Monitoring), Idera (Database monitoring), LinqPad, Json.Net    Programming Languages  ? C#, HTML, VB.NET, CSS, ASP.NET, XML, ADO. NET    Experimental - Services / Tools / Applications that have been experimented with or in progression.  Amazon Web Service Initiative with DynamoDB  MongoD  Elastic Search  Docker  Microservices