User Experience Designer User Experience Designer UX/UI and Product Designer Palo Alto, CA I am an enthusiastic UX Designer who can drive the business objectives and fulfill the customer needs, understand product requirements and transform that understanding into user-focused and intuitive products and services. I have 3+ years of industry experience in commercial shopping, marketing and communication, SaaS products, web and mobile responsive design, Android and iOS applications. In my spare time, I enjoy playing tennis and exploring new food recipes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience User Experience Designer SAP - Palo Alto, CA October 2018 to Present + Support SAP Digital’s vision to enable anyone in the world to buy and use offerings  with minimal human interaction on sap.com and sapstore.com  + Improve conversion, adoption, and expansion of SAP Digital Education offerings  along with SAP software in the no-touch business  + Lead of SAP Community project regarding the purchase information needs that can be fulfilled with the community when it comes to aligning a purchase and increase transactions in product pages  + Convert and communicate user needs via design artifacts like user flows, storyboards, wireframes, and visual design and UI specifications  + Strong collaboration with product owners, software developers, and other stakeholders to derive solutions that reflect desirability for our users, technical feasibility and commercial viability  + Provide insight synthesis after conducting usability testings of SAP Analytics Cloud,  SAP Analytics Hub, SAP Marketing Cloud, SAP AppCenter, SAP Digital Indirect no-touch  purchasing experience, SAP Crystal Reports, SAP Conversational Chatbot, and design directions by building low-fidelity flows.  + Design and code weekly high-level newsletter read by thousands of SAP employees  + Design and develop HTML Email Templates for SAP Analytics Hub, SAP Marketing Cloud, SAP AppCenter, SAP Crystal Reports. Web Development Intern University Of Washington - Seattle, WA November 2016 to June 2018 During my studies at UWB, I have been in the internship as a Web Development Assistant in the University Advancement, Marketing and Communications department at the University of Washington. I have been working on a wide variety of projects and contribute to work seen by millions of people. I have completed two individual projects (“Distinguished Stuff Award” and “David Thorud Leadership Awards”) from start to finish while I was involved in the project coordination and collaboration with different departments. I have been responsible for building Custom WordPress Child Themes that align with the UW brand, so I will increase engagement with content and elevate the awareness of Thorud and DSA program among employees.     + Develop and design highly-responsive custom themes for sites running WordPress CMS using HTML5, CSS/LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, Isotope, PHP, Backbone, Git, and Grunt while incorporating best practices in usability and accessibility.  + Research and competitive analysis, redesign and develop existing features of uw.edu and conversion to a delightful experience to users of mobile devices.  + Introduce User-Experience design process to solve customer frustrations.  + Cross browser testing, fix code-related bugs and accessibility issues found on UW apps Web Designer/ Developer Abasys Technologies, Inc - Bellevue, WA December 2014 to October 2016 + Translated complex design concepts into tangible and testable low- & high-fi prototypes.  + Developed responsive web and mobile apps with Bootstrap and HTML5 based on customers   specifications in order to increase brand awareness and user engagement.  + Project coordination with clients and establishing project parameters and formulating bids.   + Designed branding and marketing materials, graphics and illustrations.  + Maintained CMS applications, custom modules, features, layouts, and design.  + Network: Cloud Computing, Women in Technologies & New Tech Seattle. Web Design and Development Intern Abasys Technologies - Bellevue, WA September 2014 to December 2014 + Produced and designed–in collaboration with the PM and marketing director – the print collateral for various social and technology innovation events.  + Designed and developed simple, clean, and intuitive mobile navigation menu based on client’s specifications  + Troubleshoot Cross browser testing, Savvy with mobile app   + Network: Cloud Computing, Women in Technologies & New Tech Seattle Education Bachelor of Arts in Interactive Media Design, User-Centered Design, Computer Science University of Washington-Bothell Campus - Bothell, WA September 2016 to Present Associate in Web/Digital Design Lake Washington Institute of Technology - Kirkland, WA September 2014 to June 2016 Master's in Business economics University of National and World Economy - Sofia, Bulgaria September 2008 to June 2010 B.Sc. in Computer Systems and Technologies South-West University - Bulgaria 2004 to 2008 Skills Human-Centered Design Process (3 years), UX/UI Design (3 years), User Research (2 years), HTML5, CSS3/LESS, JavaScript (4 years), Sketch, Axure, Wireframe, Javascript, Adobe, User Experience, InVision (3 years), Axure (3 years), E-commerce (1 year), User Research (3 years), Usability Testing (2 years), iOS (2 years), Web Design (3 years), Web and Mobile Responsive Design (3 years), Adobe XD (2 years), Agile (3 years), User Interface, Omnigraffle, UI Links http://www.dessyovcheva.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/dessyovcheva/ https://github.com/desi-my Awards Honor Member in President's and Dean's List 2014 Certifications/Licenses Adobe Certified Associate – Graphic Design & Illustration using Adobe Illustrator CS6 August 2014 to July 2017 https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/931ec03f-22a2-4cf8-b779-5f98f274544e Adobe Certified Associate in Visual Communication Using Adobe Photoshop CS6 August 2014 to Present https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/fa14110c-76c9-41da-8410-3b2e29515729 Adobe Certified Associate in Rich Media Using Flash Professional CS6 August 2014 to Present https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/5dd05204-c199-4b98-aa60-3a08cb1224e3 Microsoft Certified Professional: Programming in HTML5 with JavaScript and CSS3 Specialist April 2013 to Present PHP and MySQL Web Development January 2010 to Present National Academy for Software Development Additional Information Qualifications:    + Practicing Empathy  + Analytical and creative problem solver  + Enthusiastic about new emerging tech  + Proactive Communicator  + Great team player  + Being able to listen and to articulate an informative decision about a product direction  + Filling the gap between UX Designers and Engineers and the feasibility of a project  + Front- and Back-end coding skills    Personal Information:    I am a UX/Product Designer and UI Engineer who graduated from the University of Washington Bothell. With a strong visual eye, I strive to combine art, technology, and people together. Keeping up with the latest trends, I am always learning and using my knowledge to find innovative solutions to complex problems. I believe communication is key and that's what is going to help us create immersive, memorable experiences.