Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer Richmond, VA With my previous background in IT Support, Retail and Business systems and Point of Sale, I have studied my way to convert to a career in software development. I'm a 2x Certified Salesforce Professional continuing a path of goals I've set for myself to continue learning.    I would be interested in discussing new roles where I can grow my experience as a developer. Ideally roles that can help continue my growth in Salesforce. Ideal roles would include Salesforce Developer, SF Administrator, SF Consultant and also roles where I can grow my knowledge of programming ideally in JavaScript and component frameworks such as React. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer RTS Labs - Richmond, VA October 2018 to Present • Provide support for existing and newly built integrations on the Salesforce platform including facilitating Lightning Conversions and reviewing optimization opportunities  • Use force.com technologies including SFDC triggers and controllers, VF page development, sObjects, Aura and Lightning Components, Apex and SOQL  • Utilize Data Loader to manipulate data in Salesforce. Including Exporting for alterations, Importing to transfer from an old system or Upserting to update current records. Where permitted, anonymous APEX/SOQL is used to make less complex updates.  • Evaluate project requirements and translate them into features by analyzing current setup and implementing appropriate SFDC tools or automation. (Whether Declarative tools like Workflows or Processes or Development tools with Apex and SOQL)  • Develop using sandbox, staging and production environments for testing and user acceptance. Recently began developing using CI with tools including Github and GearSet. Owner & Contract Web Developer Adroit Consulting LLC - Richmond, VA May 2018 to Present • Consult with clients on web projects including developing, maintaining and updating functionality  • Improve SEO ratings and introduced clients to basic site tracking analysis and best practices  • Manage projects with Wordpress, React, Wix Web Content Specialist Chesterfield County - Chesterfield, VA May 2018 to October 2018 • Created new and updated existing content utilizing contemporary web design best practices optimized for access to information, user experience, and search engine placement.  • Kept existing content up to date and eliminated outdated and/or irrelevant content.  • Edited website content using Ektron CMS and HTML & CSS.  • Worked with core group in transitioning site to new CMS, Civic Plus, system.  • Aided in improving current capabilities using APIs for calendar system. IT Manager/Systems Administrator Premier Soccer Inc - Norfolk, VA July 2007 to March 2018 • Prepared and maintained IT procedures and documentation related to business processes and platform operations for 7 retail locations  • Managed resources and processes required to design, plan, and support all information products and services  • Troubleshooted and Fixed/replaced hardware issues in all systems including PCs, Macs, printers, and other retail devices  • Researched and evaluated new technologies to be used as enhancements or upgrades to existing server, network, and other IT infrastructure equipment  • Researched and facilitated a company-wide conversion to LightSpeed Retail from QuickBooks POS and QuickBooks POS from Celerant as business requirements evolved  • Conducted all training for new system processes including day-to-day operation spanning retail, custom printing operations, team and organization invoicing, inventory and workforce management for all locations  • Set up all systems including Point of Sale, back office, printers, large format printer/cutter, mobile devices and networks running at all locations  • Provided technical support for owners, management and employees   • Maintained ecommerce operations with Amazon, eBay, and Wix   • Analyzed and manipulated large spreadsheets for report generation Education Professional Studies Certificate in Certified Full-Stack Web Developer (MERN Stack) University of Richmond - Richmond, VA January 2018 to July 2018 BSBA in Technology Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA August 2006 to December 2010 Certifications/Licenses Salesforce.com Certified Administrator March 2019 to Present Credential ID: 19946451 Salesforce.com Certified Platform App Builder August 2019 to Present Credential ID: 20350250 Additional Information LinkedIn: https://linkedin.com/in/csympson