Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Wordpress Developer - Heathersteele.com Georgetown, TX 78628 An experienced contractor and Software- PHP and LAMP Developer having expertise in the following skills:  • Node.js/NPM  • PHP  • DevOps  • Gulp    • SCSS/CSS-preprocessors  • JavaScript  • Unix Command Line  • Responsive Design/Bootstrap    • WordPress  • AWS management  • SQL  • Vue.js    • Ruby on Rails  • GIT  • LAMP  • Apache    Experienced with the best technologies and frameworks available on the Web and up to date on current online design trends. Extensive CSS3, JavaScript, object oriented PHP and SQL. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Matador Solutions - Austin, TX November 2018 to January 2019 • Managing AWS instances, passwords, and migrations for internal use.  • Performing DevOps duties including GoDaddy domains, Amazon instances, Wordpress credentials and Database management for hundreds of websites.  • Rapidly built websites and prototypes optimized for SEO for a number of clients in the law and medical fields. LAMP Developer Universal Promote - Los Angeles, CA February 2018 to August 2018 • Oversaw the creation and design of client websites using the Wordpress framework and dashboards built with LAMP and Ruby on Rails.  • Worked on an Internal dashboard built with Ruby on Rails.  • Administered our client databases and hosting solutions on GoDaddy, inMotion hosting, and Heroku. Web Developer Manager Grande Communications - San Marcos, TX February 2016 to August 2017 • Tasked with rebuilding the e-comm system to make improvements and usability and online sales.  • Numerous updates to the live website as well, cleaned up and organized code site wide, minified and gzipped CSS and JavaScript and ran weekly deploys.  • Added a marketing carousel to the homepage which cycles through content updated by the CMS.  • Numerous updates to modX template variables, and functions in order to update placeholder values across website.  • Began work on a new updates website which would use the latest web trends such as Flexbox, SCSS, Handlebar templates and build deploy process which would combine and minify libraries to reduce server load time. Associate Presentation Layer Engineer Razorfish - Austin, TX February 2015 to December 2015 • Fast-paced agency environment using JIRA ticketing system.  • Worked with a several other teams and developers on a credit card portal site for Citibank  • Extensive use of SASS and a custom NPM build/deploy process.  • Some updates to CoffeeScript and Jade templates as needed.  • Daily stand-ups to interact with other developers and give updates on progress. Digital Developer GSD&M - Austin, TX May 2014 to October 2014 • Worked in a fast-paced agency environment using JIRA ticketing system.  • Updated numerous WordPress sites for top clients such as RadioShack and Marshalls  • Extensive use of Bootstrap to create responsive layouts.  • Extensive use JavaScript and jQuery to create interactive elements on pages.  • Used Bitbucket, SourceTree and GIT for source control.  • LAMP Stack development experience. Remote Engineer White Sunrise - Atlanta, GA November 2013 to March 2014 • Working on overhauling designs of a variety of sites using MVC frameworks JavaScript and CSS.  • Working in sprints to redesign Commercial Space building and management framework.  • Currently working on a cross-platform mobile app for pulling information from the web and displaying in 3d context using JavaScript, Topcoat, cross-domain scripting and CSS3 transforms. Software Developer Rosetta - Los Angeles, CA May 2012 to April 2013 • Worked in a fast-paced agency environment using the AGILE ticketing system.  • Quickly modified text and images on numerous support pages for Blackberry RIM.  • Daily stand-up meetings and conference calls with other remote offices. Entrepreneur Media Irvine, CA July 2011 to March 2012 LAMP Developer  • Updated redesign of the homepage for Entrepreneur Magazine. Created the homepage news Carousel using JavaScript and SMARTY templates.  • Created and maintained Stored Procedures for page load optimization. JavaScript form validation for events and newsletters. JavaScript hook-ins for social media plugins.  • Daily code contributions via SVN to the new website.  • Built several SMARTY tools including the News Carousel on homepage and an Event questionnaire.  • OOP PHP environment with SMARTY templates and database.  • Created and implemented several database stored procedures used in conjunction with caching solution for quick data retrieval and storage.  • Worked with production team to bug test new designs on all platforms. Software Engineer Price Vet - Aliso Viejo, CA June 2010 to December 2010 • Converted a medical provider search engine to veterinary services.  • Re-skinned and created landing pages, search forms, signups and marketing info from Photoshop.  • Customized a proprietary object-oriented search engine based on geo location data.  • Extensive CSS3, JavaScript, object oriented PHP and SQL. Theme Developer Harte Hanks - Brea, CA May 2009 to November 2009 • Contract position, was brought on board to update stylesheets for 10 existing themes particularly for coupons.  • Corrected and cleared bugs out of 10 existing themes and added 2 new themes to the library.  • New theme PS Symbols was designed from scratch and included 81 different configurations for theme options. Powersites is a new web initiative by PennysaverUSA to quickly build customized web sites as a service for existing print ad customers.  • Currently well over 1,000 live Powersites are using the theme library. Data Analyst UTi - Miami, FL April 2005 to May 2007 • Started in accounting department doing Accounts receivable and billing.  • Moved to Miami FL to take a Data Analyst role within the same company.  • Worked with global freight forwarding database to aggregate shipping records into viewable reports.  • Created a dashboard with PHP4, Flash and AJAX to visually represent top client performance metrics. Freelance Game Designer No-Action Jackson January 2002 to January 2005 • Designed and developed an independent adventure game.  • 20,000 + lines of C code to script all aspects of game play including puzzles, dialogs, events, and custom GUI's.  • Hand-drawn characters (20), sprites (1316), room backgrounds (21, 320x200), and inventory items (39) were created and animated with Adobe Photoshop. Created music tracks and sound effects with Jeskola Buzz and Sonic Foundry. Education Management Science Southern Methodist University - Lyle School of Engineering 2000 Skills Javascript, Front End, Wordpress, PHP Additional Information COMPUTER PROFICIENCY  Languages: PHP, CSS/SCSS, SQL, JavaScript/AJAX, Ruby, Perl, HTML, shell scripting (UNIX, DOS)  Tools: WordPress, AWS, MySQL, Apache, Modx, Gulp, Ruby on Rails, Git/Jira, Adobe Photoshop