DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer Senior Software Engineer Richardson, TX Work Experience DevOps Engineer Optomi - Dallas, TX April 2019 to Present • Wrote Chef scripts to ensure product releases were performed successfully.  • Created pester to verify expected production machine configurations. Senior Software Engineer nThrive.com - Plano, TX October 2007 to June 2018 • Implemented a medical document transfer protocol to exchange patient data with Medicare auditors using C#  • Designed tools to simplify the creation of test data, dramatically decreasing the time required for feature testing  • Worked with a team to create a workflow management engine which allowed customers to efficiently prioritize claims collection activity  • Implemented APIs to enable cross application sharing of Patient Data.  • Generated customer reports using MS SQL Server Reporting Services to render application usage information  • Migrated a Cold Fusion application to use the Open Source replacement LUCEE, allowing the company to eliminate their licensing cost  • Worked with team members to resolve technical issues and address customer feedback within the product roadmap  • Updated web applications to maintain functionality with the pace of modern web browsers (ASP, ASP.net, C#)  • Resolved customer submitted issues using Salesforce bug tracking   • Performed and lead code reviews  • Created application verification checks using Selenium  Technologies used include: ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web API, C#, .NET Framework, IIS, MS SQL, SQL Server management, T-SQL, NUnit, Selenium, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, TFS, SSIS, Fiddler, Cold Fusion, Docker, Git, Scrum, Kanban. Web Developer Invent Data - Irving, TX September 2006 to September 2007 • Designed an overhaul of the company's MS SQL Server data model to conform with data integrity standards  • Created HTML mockups of user input screens Web Developer Baylor Health Care - Dallas, TX January 2003 to September 2006 • Created the Tumor Registry application from Doctors' specification. C#, ASP.Net  • Worked with a team to retrieve and display patient information into the hospital's web based EHR. C#, IIS Education B.S. in Computer Science Rhodes College - Memphis, TX Skills C# (10+ years), ASP.Net (10+ years), Javascript (5 years), Bootstrap (2 years), SQL (10+ years), MVC (5 years), SSRS (2 years), Chef (Less than 1 year), Pester (Less than 1 year), Jenkins (Less than 1 year), Cake Build (Less than 1 year) Additional Information ? Organized team building activities at nThrive  ? Served on my church's Vacation Bible Camp Leadership team  ? Managed a team of volunteers and organized large group games with over 100 youth participants  ? Experience coaching youth soccer