Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front-End Developer Belleville, NJ Hello, I am a front-end developer with a passion for technology and learning new skills and techniques that allow me to creatively solve problems. I'm resourceful and versatile, with the ability to work independently or in a fast-paced, collaborative team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Lucid and Luxe July 2019 to Present - Set up WordPress installations, domains, and migrations for new client sites.  - Provide troubleshooting for technical issues with plugins and themes.  - Perform CSS customizations and bug fixes. Freelance Motion Designer Self-Employed - New York, NY 2006 to Present - Produce animation and design for commercials, broadcast packages, and music videos.  - Collaborate with design studios, ad agencies, networks, and editorial houses.  - Participate as a member of teams in both leading and support roles.  - Lead projects working independently, sometimes managing multiple projects at once.  - Completed projects for clients such as Google, Lexus, NBCUniversal, CBS, AMC, MTV, MLB, NFL, NBA, Vevo, Chase, Verizon, and many others. Personal Developer Portfolio Personal Project March 2019 to May 2019 - Built a portfolio from the ground up using React, Gatsby, GraphQL, and SASS.  - Designed the site using Adobe XD.  - Deployed with Netlify. Freelance Web Developer Become Organized November 2018 to January 2019 - Built a customized, dynamic WordPress theme for a professional organizing business.  - Developed the theme from the ground up, using Bootstrap and jQuery.  - Utilized PHP to add editable fields in the CMS that update information on the front-end.  - Implemented mailing list opt-in buttons and forms that integrated with the existing Mailchimp account. Music Artist Website Personal Project 2018 to 2018 - Designed the site in Photoshop and converted into HTML/CSS.  - Implemented responsive design, including Flexbox and CSS Grid.  - Utilized jQuery for simple animations and smooth scrolling. Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Computer Art School of Visual Arts - New York, NY 2002 to 2006 Skills jQuery, CSS3 (2 years), API, Git (1 year), HTML (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), PHP (1 year), SASS (1 year), Adobe Illustrator (10+ years), WordPress (2 years), After Effects (10+ years), Adobe Photoshop (10+ years), HTML5 (2 years), Front End (2 years), React Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/williamdecker http://www.github.com/will-decker http://www.willdecker.com