Sr. ServiceNow Admin / Developer Sr. ServiceNow Admin / <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. ServiceNow Admin / Developer - Texas Instruments Dallas, TX Involved in end to end implementation of ServiceNow solutions. Worked on Service Catalog, Dashboards, and Event Management and Incident Management module customizations along with enhancements. Integrations with other systems and tools and supervised upgrades. Performed day to day administration tasks. Proven Experience of Support, Customization, LDAP configuration, Jelly Scripting, Glide Script, Glide AJAX, UI Pages, CMS sites.  Responsibilities included:  • Implementation and Administration of ITSM (Incident, Problem and Change) Management Processes, Building Service Catalog, CMDB (Configuration Management Database) Maintenance and Custom Application Development in ServiceNow.  • Created Applications, Modules, tables, Columns as per the requirement specification in ServiceNow.  • Involved in creating users, groups, roles and load the data to service now using import sets on daily, weekly or requirement basis.  • Development of Service Catalog which includes creating new Catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Worked with reporting in configuring Service Level Agreements (SLA).  • Involved in integration with third part tool Altiris, where data from Altiris is imported to CMDB.  • Involved in LDAP integration with ServiceNow for obtaining users and groups.  • Created Record Producers, Order Guides and Catalog Client Scripts and Work flows.  • Involve in migration between various environments in Service Now using update sets and import sets.  • Created Workflows, Sub flows and Tables on Helsinki, Geneva, Fuji and Eureka. Managed inbound and outbound notifications in Helsinki Geneva, Fuji and Eureka.  • Utilized Orchestration to extend workflows to interact with systems and applications outside the Servicenow instance.  • Involved in redesigning the workflows using ServiceNow workflow editor also involved in reconciliation of complicated workflows to simpler form.  • Developed Transform maps to map values between Import Set and ServiceNow tables.  • Involved in cloning between various environments in ServiceNow.  • Development of UI pages using HTML and jelly scripting for ESS (Employee Self-Service) portal.  • Extensively worked with REST GET and POST using basic HTTP Authentication.  • Handling the Web responses and Parsing the XML and JSON data to load into tables using XML and JSON parsers in ServiceNow.  • Data Population for New Catalog Item, Maintenance of CI (Configuration Items) and workflows in CMDB module.  • Worked on change management module by enhancing the tool to the stakeholders and made it easy to understand.  • Involved in upgrading version of ServiceNow from Fuji to Geneva and Geneva to Helsinki with focus on Service Catalog and also have knowledge with patches for same version.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, Soap, web services, CSS, HTML5.  • Worked on Glide AJAX and Glide Records for scripting and UI actions.  • Implemented JDBC Export to execute custom SQL queries in the target database based on requirement.  • Worked on scheduling the report generation in ServiceNow as per the requirements.    Sr. ServiceNow Developer/Admin  XPO Logistics - Charlotte, NC - February 2015 to January 2016  Environment: CMDB, ServiceNow Fuji/Geneva, CSS, Java Script, HTML, Discovery, JSON, jQuery, Angular JS, SOAP, AJAX, SCRUM, ITIL.  Project Description:  Involved in configuring CMDB from scratch and worked on populating the database with DISCOVERY. Scheduling SLA’s for incident management. Customized different modules, designed user interface and created workflows to meet business needs and other transaction processes. Catalog Application including resolving the incidents and problem tickets on Service Catalog.    Responsibilities included:  • Worked as a developer for an End-To-End development for a re-factoring project, resolved many issues and worked on CMDB Management to resolve issues that were a major defect in Aruba Networks.  • Worked on huge Workflow design for on boarding and off-boarding of a Partner / Employee / Contractor based on the requirements provided by the teams.  • As per the best practices of Service Now, developed and configured Business Rules, Script Includes, UI Policies, Catalog Client Scripts and Client Scripts, Scheduled Jobs.  • Maintained and administered the implemented instance of ServiceNow and performed tasks such as Configuring Users, company, site, location and other existing fields, Support Groups, assignment rules, categorizations, CI data, SLA etc.  • Worked on DISCOVERY and set up mid servers and check for the connectivity, Became an expert in troubleshooting Discovery tool.  • Created notifications based on user requirements and configured inbound email actions to create incidents or requests.  • Created schedules, reports, and monitor performance of Service-Now.  • Created new Business Rules/Script Includes/Client catalog script/Client Script.  • Creating Knowledge articles to document the steps in creating the catalog items.  • Working on order guides, to arrange them in sequential order to make the user comfortable while raising a request.  • Worked on ServiceNow Discovery tool to identify IP-enabled configuration items (CIs), map their interdependencies, and populate them in the CMDB.  • Installed MID Servers on remote desktop and conducted tests required for Discovery.  • Used data sources to migrate the data from excel sheets to Service-Now through transform maps.  • Facilitating rollout of new applications and modules.  • Created Workflows, Sub flows and Tables both on Fuji and Geneva. Managed inbound and outbound notifications in Fuji and Geneva.  • Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts.  • Creation of update sets, export the update sets, retrieve the update sets.  • Imported Active Directory to Service now using data sources.  • Created data sources and loaded the Service-Now tables with different data formats.  • Documented all implementations and best practices defined within team.  • Provide advanced support for Service-Now by troubleshooting a variety of difficult software problems, implementing bug fixes and performing root cause analysis.  • Perform day to day administration of the Service-Now Tool Maintain business services and configuration item relationships in Service-Now tool.  • Provided analysis, design and development of Service-Now trouble ticketing and incident management systems to support the company’s technical operations.  • Experience on Glide and Jelly Scripting, Java Script, HTML, XML, AJAX. Done integration with 3rd party tools using ( Web services, SOAP, Email, MID server). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. ServiceNow Admin / Developer Texas Instruments - Dallas, TX February 2016 to Present Environment: ServiceNow Geneva/Helsinki, HTML5, Java Script, JSON, SOAP, WebServices, MS SQL Server, Integration, SCRUM.    Project Description:  Involved in end to end implementation of ServiceNow solutions. Worked on Service Catalog, Dashboards, and Event Management and Incident Management module customizations along with enhancements. Integrations with other systems and tools and supervised upgrades. Performed day to day administration tasks. Proven Experience of Support, Customization, LDAP configuration, Jelly Scripting, Glide Script, Glide AJAX, UI Pages, CMS sites.  Responsibilities included:  • Implementation and Administration of ITSM (Incident, Problem and Change) Management Processes, Building Service Catalog, CMDB (Configuration Management Database) Maintenance and Custom Application Development in ServiceNow.  • Created Applications, Modules, tables, Columns as per the requirement specification in ServiceNow.  • Involved in creating users, groups, roles and load the data to service now using import sets on daily, weekly or requirement basis.  • Development of Service Catalog which includes creating new Catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Worked with reporting in configuring Service Level Agreements (SLA).  • Involved in integration with third part tool Altiris, where data from Altiris is imported to CMDB.  • Involved in LDAP integration with ServiceNow for obtaining users and groups.  • Created Record Producers, Order Guides and Catalog Client Scripts and Work flows.  • Involve in migration between various environments in Service Now using update sets and import sets.  • Created Workflows, Sub flows and Tables on Helsinki, Geneva, Fuji and Eureka. Managed inbound and outbound notifications in Helsinki Geneva, Fuji and Eureka.  • Utilized Orchestration to extend workflows to interact with systems and applications outside the Servicenow instance.  • Involved in redesigning the workflows using ServiceNow workflow editor also involved in reconciliation of complicated workflows to simpler form.  • Developed Transform maps to map values between Import Set and ServiceNow tables.  • Involved in cloning between various environments in ServiceNow.  • Development of UI pages using HTML and jelly scripting for ESS (Employee Self-Service) portal.  • Extensively worked with REST GET and POST using basic HTTP Authentication.  • Handling the Web responses and Parsing the XML and JSON data to load into tables using XML and JSON parsers in ServiceNow.  • Data Population for New Catalog Item, Maintenance of CI (Configuration Items) and workflows in CMDB module.  • Worked on change management module by enhancing the tool to the stakeholders and made it easy to understand.  • Involved in upgrading version of ServiceNow from Fuji to Geneva and Geneva to Helsinki with focus on Service Catalog and also have knowledge with patches for same version.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, Soap, web services, CSS, HTML5.  • Worked on Glide AJAX and Glide Records for scripting and UI actions.  • Implemented JDBC Export to execute custom SQL queries in the target database based on requirement.  • Worked on scheduling the report generation in ServiceNow as per the requirements. Sr. ServiceNow Developer/Admin XPO Logistics - Charlotte, NC February 2015 to January 2016 Environment: CMDB, ServiceNow Fuji/Geneva, CSS, Java Script, HTML, Discovery, JSON, jQuery, Angular JS, SOAP, AJAX, SCRUM, ITIL.  Project Description:  Involved in configuring CMDB from scratch and worked on populating the database with DISCOVERY. Scheduling SLA's for incident management. Customized different modules, designed user interface and created workflows to meet business needs and other transaction processes. Catalog Application including resolving the incidents and problem tickets on Service Catalog.    Responsibilities included:  • Worked as a developer for an End-To-End development for a re-factoring project, resolved many issues and worked on CMDB Management to resolve issues that were a major defect in Aruba Networks.  • Worked on huge Workflow design for on boarding and off-boarding of a Partner / Employee / Contractor based on the requirements provided by the teams.  • As per the best practices of Service Now, developed and configured Business Rules, Script Includes, UI Policies, Catalog Client Scripts and Client Scripts, Scheduled Jobs.  • Maintained and administered the implemented instance of ServiceNow and performed tasks such as Configuring Users, company, site, location and other existing fields, Support Groups, assignment rules, categorizations, CI data, SLA etc.  • Worked on DISCOVERY and set up mid servers and check for the connectivity, Became an expert in troubleshooting Discovery tool.  • Created notifications based on user requirements and configured inbound email actions to create incidents or requests.  • Created schedules, reports, and monitor performance of Service-Now.  • Created new Business Rules/Script Includes/Client catalog script/Client Script.  • Creating Knowledge articles to document the steps in creating the catalog items.  • Working on order guides, to arrange them in sequential order to make the user comfortable while raising a request.  • Worked on ServiceNow Discovery tool to identify IP-enabled configuration items (CIs), map their interdependencies, and populate them in the CMDB.  • Installed MID Servers on remote desktop and conducted tests required for Discovery.  • Used data sources to migrate the data from excel sheets to Service-Now through transform maps.  • Facilitating rollout of new applications and modules.  • Created Workflows, Sub flows and Tables both on Fuji and Geneva. Managed inbound and outbound notifications in Fuji and Geneva.  • Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts.  • Creation of update sets, export the update sets, retrieve the update sets.  • Imported Active Directory to Service now using data sources.  • Created data sources and loaded the Service-Now tables with different data formats.  • Documented all implementations and best practices defined within team.  • Provide advanced support for Service-Now by troubleshooting a variety of difficult software problems, implementing bug fixes and performing root cause analysis.  • Perform day to day administration of the Service-Now Tool Maintain business services and configuration item relationships in Service-Now tool.  • Provided analysis, design and development of Service-Now trouble ticketing and incident management systems to support the company's technical operations.  • Experience on Glide and Jelly Scripting, Java Script, HTML, XML, AJAX. Done integration with 3rd party tools using ( Web services, SOAP, Email, MID server). ServiceNow Developer Solar Turbines - San Diego, CA May 2014 to January 2015 Environment: CMDB, ServiceNow Eureka/Fuji, CSS, Java Script, HTML, SOAP, JSON, XML, Agile, AJAX, Shell scripting, Integrations, ITIL, Web services.  Project Description:  Involved in the development of the Catalog Services Module and later Knowledge Management module. The catalog services module provides the user the ability to maintain the catalog of the products. The Knowledge management module is collection of the user experience and knowledge for the expertise procured on job.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Active Involvement in Implementation, Customization, and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident, Asset, Change, Problem, Knowledge, Service Catalog in ServiceNow.  • Developed solutions in the ServiceNow platform that are ITIL V3 compliant and defined business solutions for ITIL users.  • Configure the LDAP Integration by integrating Active Directory to ServiceNow.  • Configure Altars application to bring asset related data into ServiceNow by using SOAP calls and API's.  • Communicating with end users, identifying their difficulties, and changing the applications as per their requirements.  • Created various front end forms, and associated Client Scripts, UI policies, including advanced customizations that require modification of UI Pages/Macros.  • Configured UI Page and UI Macro using the Jelly and JavaScript.  • Involved in creating ACL's as per the client needs. Development of SLA for the organizations Implementation of ACL.  • Individually implemented Discovery Application for populating CMDB.  • Managed end user portal and created dynamic, static block for the Content Management System (CMS).  • IT Service Management applications development on ServiceNow platform to automate the day-to-day corporate business processes.  • Managing all the activities like Instance cloning, patch upgrade and Post fix implementation after clone.  • Created all JavaScript logic (validation, animations, transitions, template, date picking etc.  • Designed many Email templates by using HTML, XML and Jelly Scripting and used them in notifications  • Interaction directly with functional/process owners over phone or WebEx to understand the business processes and new requirements.  • Designing new Workflows and modifying the existing workflows according to new requirements in an efficient manner.  • Development and design of Self Service Portal. Developed several client side scripting, catalog scripts, UI scripts, server side scripting based on business rules.  • Creating custom Tables, Fields and configuring Access Controls over them.  • Configuring Data Sources, Import Sets, SLA/OLA, LDAP and Transform maps..  • Gathered requirements for SLA and configured in ServiceNow.  • Migration from BMC remedy to ServiceNow.  • Worked on User Management to add, update and deactivate users in ServiceNow.  • Worked on Macros and formatters.  • Following the Release process to develop and deploy the code in development to production environments as per proper approval from functional leads  • Configuring Integration Web Services with Third Party application by using SOAP Web service.  • Enhancing the Service-Now functionality by customized JavaScript code to support the new business needs.  • Deploying the developed code to Stage/QA/Production instances using Update Sets.  • Providing support during the UAT process and postproduction deployment.  • Root Cause Analysis for the incidents and interruptions in process flow and applying fix for the same within the SLA duration.  • Conceptual and strategically analytical with an ability to understand information system and thoroughly analyze and address business needs.  • Creating workflows to handle the status flow once the request is received from an external tool.  • Key contributor in Service Integration ITSM Tools team including configuring ITSM tools to engage effectively over the Service Integration Layer, building Web Services for different technologies and providing support for demos to internal stake holders as well as client stake holders. ServiceNow Developer BBVA Compass - Birmingham, AL January 2013 to April 2014 Environment: CMDB, ServiceNow Dublin/Eureka, CSS, Java Script, HTML, SOAP, JSON, XML, Agile, AJAX, Shell scripting, Integrations, ITIL, Web services.  Project Description:  Maintaining and updating the database with new customer information. Involved in enhancing and modifying the web page configuration and content in accordance to the business needs. Integrations with other systems and tools and supervised upgrades.    Responsibilities included:  • Technical implementation of ServiceNow modules such as Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Catalog, Configuration Management.  • Implemented best practice of ServiceNow Scripting, which enhanced the System performance.  • Maintained and administered the implemented instance of ServiceNow and performed tasks such as Configuring Users, company, site, location and other existing fields, Support Groups, assignment rules, categorizations, CI data, SLA etc.  • Involved in implementing Service Catalog and Request Workflow Design and Configuration.  • Created various front end forms, and associated Client Scripts, UI policies, including advanced customizations that require modification of UI Pages/Macros.  • Communicated with end users, identifying their difficulties, and changing the applications as per their requirements.  • Experience in Email Integration, LDAP integration, External Web Services Integration (both SOAP based and REST based) in Servicenow.  • Created Service catalog items, wizards, record producers, task interceptors, and user guide help documentation.  • Implemented Risk Management for the Risk evaluation of the change Request associated with the Configuration Item.  • Strong understanding of ITIL concepts including process knowledge in all service lifecycles.  • Created notifications based on user requirements and configured actions to create incidents or requests.  • Developed Transform maps to map values between Import Set and ServiceNow tables for incoming data from external sources.  • Participating in meeting with SME's and Project Managers to analyze the requirements and developing the workflow design of request items using Agile Methodologies  • Designed Workflows, along with standard Workflow templates which can be reused.  • Configured UI Page and UI Macro using the Jelly and JavaScript.  • Expertise on using DISCOVERY to load configuration information to CMDB.  • Involved in customization of forms for various ServiceNow applications.  • Designed and created homepages including basic reporting, gauge configuration and dashboard presentation.  • Managed a team of offshore developers and getting them aligned with the process.  • Scheduled cloning and migration of data from instances with ServiceNow.  • Worked on Configuring rules, monitors and management packs in SCOM and involved in testing reports for correct mapping of the objects and data.  • Involved in various ServiceNow customizations as per client's requirement and also in migration between various ServiceNow instances using Update Sets.  • Worked on Glide Ajax and Glide Records for scripting and UI actions.  • Created user manuals for all the users on using Info View and exporting reports to various formats.  • Managing ServiceNow (Change Management) ITIL Automate and standardize business processes for all Go-Lives. Java/ Web Developer Hyatt Corporation - Chicago, IL January 2012 to December 2012 Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Struts, Oracle 9i, Web logic 8.0, JUNIT, JavaScript, XML, CSS, HTML, UNIX, HP- QC ALM, SQL, PL/SQL.    Project Description:  Collecting data from various agents and agencies, validating the data and presenting the data to prospective customers was a nightmare for a Material Handling Equipment company. Techweb built a solution that enabled its agents and agencies to enter the data directly with required validations to control the accuracy. Prospective customers could search the data based on 48 permutations. Techweb solutions resolved the pain of data capture, validation and provided an easy and fast system for the client to locate and buy the equipment online.    Responsibilities included:  • Implemented Graphical User Interface design and worked on HTML, DHTML, XML, XSL, CSS and client validations using Java script.  • Involved in developing Web Services (SOAP) to support internal and external requests.  • Worked on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java, Spring MVC and WebSphere.  • Implemented the modules using Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern.  • Participated in department wide initiatives to address long term business, technical, and performance goals.  • Tested the application using Use cases and used Use cases for identify and clarify requirement and Agile methods for building the software.  • Involved in designing, creating, reviewing Technical Design Documents.  • Worked with other internal IT teams to complete project activities (Architecture and Database teams)  • Designed database Queries for updating, insertion and retrieval of asset information and rates.  • Written Stored Procedures and packages for database operations.  • Performed Unit and system testing of application code as well as execution of implementation activities.  • Used jQuery and AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Performed Identification, documentation and estimation of technical tasks of varying sizes and levels of complexity of the project.  • Used Oracle stored procedures, triggers, functions and packages.  • Code reviews for the Servlets in order to get high performance and coding Java Classes.  • Interfaces were developed to the database with the help of JDBC drivers for Oracle  • Developed user interface screens using JSP, JQuery, JSON, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and JSP Custom Tags.  • Used JDBC calls to update the database at the application server  • Written UNIX shell scripts to copy the data files from one server to another  • Wrote SQL queries and PL/SQL procedures for JDBC. Java Developer Birla Soft Limited Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2009 to December 2011 Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Struts, Oracle 9i, Web logic 8.0, Eclipse, JUNIT, JavaScript, XML, CSS, HTML, UNIX, HP-QC ALM, SQL, PL/SQL.  Project Description:  Online Banking Application provides the facility for the customer to look information about his/her account status, balances, transfer the amount from one account to other, view current transactions, and previous transactions. The system provides the features for bank authorities to open a new account, transfer of amount from other, renewal and cancellation of account. The customers can pay bills to different merchants.    Roles &Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating requirements document by analysing on the function requirements given by clients.  • Developed JSPs and implemented JavaScript validation of data.  • Developed the Server side using Model View Architecture implemented by Spring MVC  • Developed Form Beans, Action Classes and JSP pages.  • Server side development is done by using servlets and JavaBeans.  • Configuring Hibernate ORM methodologies, writing SQL and PL/SQL Stored procedures.  • Developing Hibernate mapping and Hibernate configuration files.  • Developed DAO to perform CRUD operations over database.  • Oracle Databases are used in the applications and we used JDBC to communicate with that database.  • Deployed application using the WebSphere Server.  • Designed the application using J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Value Object, and Singleton.  • Developed presentation tier as HTML, JSP's using Struts 1.1 Framework. Used AJAX for faster page rendering.  • Developed the middle tier using EJB's Stateless Session Bean, Java Servlets.  • Entity Beans used for accessing data from Oracle 9i database. Using Tomcat web server and Spring MVC framework.  • Worked on Hibernate for data persistence. Used Spring-Hibernate template for database access and implementing persistence mechanism for the application.  • Used ANT as build tool. Used JUnit for writing Unit tests. Performed manual Black box, Functional, GUI, Regression, Integration testing. Education Bachelors in Computer Science JNTU-H University Hyderabad Skills CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years), JAVA (8 years), DATABASE (7 years), SQL (5 years), ServiceNow Geneva/Helsinki, HTML5, Java Script, JSON, SOAP, WebServices, MS SQL Server, Integration, SCRUM (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  * ITIL: ITSM, ITIL, ServiceNow, CMS, BMC Remedyand LDAP  * Programming Languages: C,C++,HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, SQL,PL/SQL.  * Software Methodologies: SDLC, Waterfall, Agile, Scrum  * Databases: Oracle [ ] MySQL, SQL Server  * Database Tools: SQL Client, TOAD, SQL Developer  * Web/Application Servers: IBM Web Sphere 6.x, Web Logic 10, Apache Tomcat