Director of Digital Marketing Director of Digital Marketing Director of Digital Marketing Munster, IN Work Experience Director of Digital Marketing Lunarline, Inc 2017 to 2019 • 2017 - 2019  A leading cybersecurity service and certification provider to the US Federal Government, private and commercial industries.    Director of Digital Marketing  Develop, create, and execute digital marketing strategy to support all business and technology targets. Direct an ambitious cross-functional team accountable for digital product marketing, website development, campaign management, data analytics, video production, e-commerce, and social media.  • Increased online organic visits by 52% and engagement by 48% by developing new websites which streamlined the business's digital presence and exposure.  • Overcame challenges and led efforts to construct a new shared corporate brand conception, aligning business's divisions to execute the vision, both digital and traditional.  • Increased student enrollment by 32%, certification exam revenue by more than $400 thousand and perceived findability of information by 82% with redevelopment of School of Cybersecurity and Certification website.  • Improved overall analytics and search ranking by 46% through page SEO, keyword placement, and A/B testing.  • Created strategic company videos that set the standard and drove increased cross-promotional web traffic. Sr. UI/UX Web Developer AmCraft - Elk Grove Village, IL 2016 to 2017 Elk Grove Village, IL • 2016 - 2017  Manufacturer of specialized products serving the military, transportation sector, and commercial industries.    Sr. UI/UX Web Developer  Designed feature concepts for applications including websites, mobile experiences, and interactive projects. Worked in close collaboration with Development and Product Management to develop initial strategy, addressing product, brand, marketing, content, and overall user experience. Created internal and external deliverables including conceptual diagrams, site maps, interaction flows, storyboards, schematics/wireframes, and detailed functional specifications.  • Increased relevant click through and conversion rate by 35% through online product promotions.  • Improved Google Ads ROI by 93% and Achieved top organic rankings for key phrases.  • Successfully guided multiple web development projects, with a 98% record of on-time delivery. Sr. Web Developer/Visual Designer Safari Marketing - Schererville, IN 2015 to 2016 Schererville, IN • 2015 - 2016  Integrated marketing company serving offering b2b and b2c services to NW Indiana businesses.    Sr. Web Developer/Visual Designer  Drove all aspects of custom web development projects for various industries clients with budgets ranging from $30,000 to over $400,000. Steered activities of team to deliver projects within strict budget and time constraints. Gathered and analyzed requirements, developed functional specifications, defined user experience, and prepared in-depth documentation.  • Increased five client site visits to over 200,000 total per month over a 3-month period.  • Drove 67% increase in revenue-per-client by developing and executing a comprehensive strategy that included improved landing pages, add-on suggestions, and follow-up emails.  • Developed quality reusable UI code for both mobile applications and websites. Sr. UI/UX Web Developer/Designer Vision Labs - Chicago, IL 2013 to 2015 Chicago, IL • 2013 - 2015  Digital development agency specializing in interactive prototyping for major consumer brands and industries.    Sr. UI/UX Web Developer/Designer  Responsible for creating the entire lifecycle for digital products from conception through launch. Development of custom-coded CMS websites based on user testing and client feedback, along with accompanying maintenance dashboards for data analytics, user analysis, and research. Designed effective corporate advertising and branding for 110+ clients and customers.  • Developed integrated free Wi-Fi product for major cities in cooperation with Cisco and Sprint. User engagement climbed to 100% on launch resulting in doubling initial geographical rollout. Revenue was based on sponsor advertising.  • Created mobile text promotion for Six Flags Fright Fest that offered park discounts and specials. Positive response rates climbed to over 85% during a methodical weekly release schedule.  • Worked seamlessly with fellow developers and designers in an Agile development process. Sr. UI/UX Web Developer/Designer CompuSystems - Downers Grove, IL 2013 to 2014 Downers Grove, IL • 2013 - 2014  Full-service registration provider to many of the world's top event organizers and tradeshows.    Sr. UI/UX Web Developer/Designer  Accountable for the UI/UX of software programs used by tradeshow exhibitors to retrieve attendee data and demographics for the purpose of re-marketing. Designed data-driven UI for mobile applications and new features.    • Enhanced overall UX of 3 software programs which gained a total 74% increase in user satisfaction based on feedback.  • Developed cutting-edge UI for internal client software that was adopted immediately.  • Worked with outside vendors to coordinate and complete development projects on time and within budget. President of Fireshark Marketing Ted Muta Advertising 2009 to 2014 Web Designer for Ted Muta Advertising (2008 - 2009), Web Designer/Graphic Designer Chicago Sun-Times Newsgroup 1997 to 2008 Education Certification in Graphic Arts and Visual Communication ROBERT MORRIS UNIVERSITY - Chicago, IL 2003 BA in Graphic Design School of Visual Arts 1996 COLUMBIA COLLEGE - Chicago, IL 1994 Skills Marketing, Digital marketing, Data analysis, Android, Ui, Ux, Sharepoint, Firebase, Html5, Ios, Xcode, Javascript, Php, Swift, Xml, Microsoft sharepoint, Prototyping, Wordpress, Interactive design, Ux design Links http://linkedin.com/in/johnwmcnulty http://johnwmcnulty.dribble.com http://johnwmcnulty.com Additional Information Core competencies include: Digital Marketing • UI and UX Design • Interactive Design • Prototyping • Mobile App Development  Data Analysis • Project Management • Leadership • Web Development • Swift • XCode • Firebase • Sketch • InVision • Adobe XD    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Adobe CC • HTML5 • CSS3 • JavaScript • PHP • XML • XCode • Swift • iOS • Android  Moodle • Shopify • WordPress • Drupal • Magento • Microsoft 365 • Microsoft SharePoint