Application Architect Application Architect Buda, TX ? Experienced agile software developer offering 18 years professional development experience, over 20 years' experience in the computer industry.  ? Responsible for designing and implementing new features in existing software, leading to new accounts, as well as maintaining million dollar annual ones.  ? Strong expertise in designing/producing smaller applications helping with automation of tasks such as internationalization of code, private email server for customers, implementing 3rd party components, as well as supervising other developers and assigning tasks as needed to help with overall completion of project.  ? Extensive work with sales and training teams keeping them knowledgeable of my development efforts, new features implemented, as well as any existing bugs resolved.  ? Recognized professional strengths include flexibility in finding solutions (from architect/design/implementation) within the project deadline.  ? Professional publication includes article for developing educational video games and gaming course in college.  ? Certified teacher: Math - Grades 4-8, Computer Science - all grade levels.    Languages: Java, Javascript, NodeJS, EJB, Spring, C++, C, VS C++, Flash ActionScript 3.0, JavaScript, Borland Delphi, Visual Basic  Web: IBM Cloud, AWS, HTML, Angular, Node JS, IBM Cloud, Bluemix, JavaScript (JQuery, Sencha, other JS libraries), XML, CSS, Ajax, PHP, Flash, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, VBScript  Servers: Websphere Application Server  Graphics API's: OpenGL, DirectX  Dev Environments: IBM Rational Architecture Developer, Eclipse, MS Visual Studio, Notepad++  RDBMS: DB2, MS SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, MS Access, MSDE, Mongo, Postgres  Version Control: Github, CVS, SVN, SourceSafe  Bugs: Jira , OnTime, Soffront Track  OS: Win 10, Win-9x, Vista, Macintosh, Unix, Linux, X-Windows, Windows 7  Misc: Lotus Notes, Drupal, Squirrel SQL, Toad, Pervasive Software Database Products, Macromedia Products, Adobe Products, MS Project, Visio, MS Office, Lotus Notes, Apache Maven, Crystal Reports, QuickBooks POS system Work Experience Application Architect Omnience/Corelan - Remote October 2002 to August 2019 Events API Project - 2016-2019  ·       Support multi consumer API, Backend developer for API involved in getting and posting marketing data to IBM for mid to high level events for IBM.   ·       UI developer for the API interface. Backend (Java) developer. Back up for the project manager.  ·       Plan and organize event support for accurate data transfer through the API with customers.  ·       Build and Deploy API monitoring dashboard to IBM Cloud and Bluemix (NodeJS application)  ·       Build test suite for application in Postman    AMS project – 2016-2019  ·       UI and Java developer for web software for loading rooms, sessions, categories, speakers for IBM mid to high level events.  ·       Helped in identifying and troubleshooting issues on many occasions, bug fixes in an existing application.    CTEBA Project 2012-2016  ·       Analyzed business requirements and architected controller level in MVC web java application. Worked in Agile scrum environment, reported weekly (and sometimes daily) to business team with defect reports. Built and supported high profile, million dollar application to support IBM management of auditing marketing funds by employees.    Environment: Java, Rational Software Architect, Rational Software Developer, Websphere Application Server, DB2, Lotus Notes, Github, JIRA, IBM Box, Apache Maven, Slack Web Development Tone Visuals - Austin, TX January 2011 to January 2012 Built an online media library to take thousands of video clips, or still images searchable by "tags" set up in the metadata. DAMMY (Digital Asset Management) award nominated. Features included creating secure logins for all clients, comment section for each video or still clip, the ability to add clips to each user's personal viewing room, and share that viewing room with other users. Technologies used: HTML, CSS, PHP, Javascript, Ajax, MySQL, JSON. Sole developer, both front end and back end. Customers included: Whataburger, Popeye's, and Golfsmith advertising agencies. Developer - Contract Postition Diluted Studios - Austin, TX September 2010 to March 2011 Client Side Developer for a video game on the Facebook platform  ·       Design and Implement new features, build metagame, build out helper classes   ·       Worked with AMF calls and Mongo database  ·       Worked with Electroserver 5.0 game server Lead Developer A Little Entertainment - Austin, TX 2010 to March 2011 Lead Client Side Developer for a video game on the Facebook platform  • Design and Implement new features as well as bug fixes  • Meet with Game Producers and designers to plan and develop Game Play, Character, Reward System Design and Implementation within the Game  • Built Customer Care Application using Eclipse Java and MySQL    Environment: Flash ActionScript 3.0, MySQL, Facebook Platform SDK, PHP, XML, CVS Web Development Self Employed - Austin, TX January 2001 to January 2011 ·       Develop, redesign, and maintain websites for clients using HTML, JavaScript, Flash, CSS, AJAX, asp, PHP … re-designing sites for Karen Sachar Photography (including a Wordpress element) and South Austin Dental. More examples available upon request. Migrated sites to cheaper servers including their databases (IATSE local 484 site), extensive MySQL experience. Build and maintain online shopping cart as well as website – Gear Rental. Lead Developer/ Project Manager Pervasive Software - Austin, TX 2007 to 2008 Build custom component plug-ins to interface web communications for client applications involving data transfer using JAVA programming language. Main clients included many CRM (Customer Relationship management) companies, the largest being SalesForce.com, as well as non-CRM clients including Intuit software, FAMIS, and SilverPOP.  Project Manager Responsibilities:  • Created all design documents for client throughout development process, SOW's, bids, development timelines, as well as documentation involving maps of data fields for client.  • Weekly status calls with multiple clients. High profile duties with business partners. Managed project from beginning bids to completion.  • Webex or in house demonstration of completed project, including training of how to use component.  • Strong knowledge of Pervasive data products.  Lead Developer Responsibilities:  • Wrote web service component with Java (including AXIS SDK) to accomplish handshaking, encryption, read/write access, data mapping for custom data fields specific for component being written, data transfers, and logging.  • Interfacing systems included Oracle, Seibel, custom SDK's provided by client, Pervasive products, WSDL, SOAP, Fiddler http sniffer for testing, XPATH for metadata access read and write as necessary for custom database components (accomplished by writing of custom XML schemas).  • Deliverable also consisted of implementation of client customization in configuration, implemented by writing and referencing macro definition file to allow flexibility for specific system specifications.    Environment: Eclipse, Javascript, MS Project, Salesforce.com, Pervasive Data Suite, Toad, Fiddler Developer/ Lead Developer Express Digital - Austin, TX 2004 to 2007 Part of development team for two products (photo loading and editing software), lead developer on one product. Responsible for architect, design, development, coding of bug fixes, and new features  implemented in software running on photo kiosk and at photo labs in popular chains such as Costco, Sear's Portrait Studio, Carnival Cruise Lines. As a lead developer, work  extensively with client, sales, training, and customer solutions to develop  time line and release schedule for implementing new features and bug fixes in agreed  deadline. Code written in Microsoft Visual C++.  • Design and Code custom app tool to assist with automation of translation kit of code to Internationalization. Accomplished by building parser to pull strings from code.  • Lead project, delegate to others as well as myself to transition code base into Unicode from ASCII.  • Design and implement 3rd party components into new module in our software, that displays data in visual graph format. (Real time data as well as from stored database)  • Design and implement new hardware component to automate existing tasks and new tasks in existing software.  • Extensive work with database component of software and Microsoft SQL Server  • Strong skills in developing multi-threaded applications, including debugging.  • Supervise and train others with development tasks to help with product completion.    Environment: MS Visual C++, OnTime, SQL Server, MS Project, XML Developer Jack Henry & Associates - Austin, TX 2002 to 2004 Implement new features, bug fixes for quarterly release of tax software for bank holding companies. Code written in Borland Delphi.  • Built custom email server, to help automate the process of receiving tax documents by email, batching attachments and sending to Federal Reserve.  • Designed and coded custom app to parse Excel files in specified format, apply logic rules and insert into database for product software.  • Work extensively with quality assurance to meet quarterly deadline.  • Work with tech support, clients, and sales to address and add new features for each release.    Environment: Borland Delphi 5 & 7, Soffront Track, XML, XSL, XSLT Texas Pacific Film & Video, Gearrental - Austin, TX 1999 to 2003 Rentals, Accounting  • Maintain and update the company website using Macromedia DreamWeaver and Flash.  • Create reports for accounting using Seagate Crystal Reports and Cyma Accounting software.  • Create flyers, company, forms, and brochures using Adobe Photoshop, QuarkXpress, and Microsoft Publisher.  • Troubleshoot network connectivity, file and print sharing for Microsoft Networks, and desktop support.    Environment: Macromedia Products, Adobe Photoshop, QuarkXpress, Crystal Reports, Cyma Accounting software Network Technician Pegalo Properties - Austin, TX 2001 to 2001 Temporary contract work during network upgrade.  • Assisted in moving over 140 end users to new network backbone, configured end users stations with new IP address to access the new network in the proper VLAN. Troubleshoot auto negotiation between Cisco 3500 series switches and end users NIC's, hubs, and switches. Made patch cables and patched users into the network.    Environment: Onsite cable work, Networking Windows OS Education Bachelor's in Computer Science St. Edward's University - Austin, TX 2002 Associates of Arts in Theater Austin Community College - Austin, TX 1999 At St. Edwards: GPA: 3.92, Major (Computer Science) GPA: 4.0. Graduated Summa Cum Laude Recipient of Outstanding Student in Computer Science Award for 2001-2002 Deans List throughout college Developed and coded a 3-D interactive Ethics Game, "Ethical Pursuit" for use by The Center for Ethics and Leadership at St. Edwards University using MS VC++ and OpenGL for my senior project. Publications "An Interactive Ethics Game." The Journal of Computing in Small Colleges. Volume 17, Number 3, April 2002 Skills Wordpress, Javascript, Angular, PHP, Front End, HTML, XML, Jquery, Sql Server, SQL