IT Consultant and Web Developer IT Consultant and <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> IT Consultant / Web Developer West Palm Beach, FL IT specialist and Web developer with experience in Windows and Linux server administration, network analysis and maintenance, custom PHP programming and responsive websites design using Javascript, jQuery, SASS, and Bootstrap 4 Work Experience IT Consultant and Web Developer Self Own Business - West Palm Beach, FL 2013 to Present Design responsive, database-driven websites.    Develop SEO and digital marketing campaigns.    Provide technical support for Windows and OS X System Administrator Beghelli - Miramar, FL 2004 to 2013 Development of sales and commissions web application and engineering technical  support database.    Generate custom Crystal Reports from MS SQL databases.    Design of the global online catalogs and other database-driven applications.    IT support, network maintenance, Linux and Windows Server administration. Senior Web Developer VisionBurst 2002 to 2004 Implementation and maintenance of online stores for customers.    Custom PHP programming, including creating and maintaining in-house CMS  system for customers    Website and graphic design. Web Designer/Graphic Designer Sheridan Technical College 2002 to 2003 Develop database driven students surveys.    Design and maintain faculty employee handbook website.    Video editing and recording of promotional videos to be used in the college website. Education Digital Marketing Florida Atlantic University - Boca Raton, FL 2018 Web Development Sheridan Technical College - Hollywood, FL 2002 Electrical Engineering Valle University 1998 Skills Crystal reports (5 years), Linux (10+ years), Server administration (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), SEO (5 years), Mac (7 years), Graphic design (10+ years), CAD, Jquery (5 years), Javascript (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Drupal, Wordpress, HTML5, Angular Awards Student of the year award - Sheridan Technical College 2002-08 Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jl0t-4nksqiwwhti Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.