Owner Owner Owner - SLATEBLUE SOLUTIONS, LLC Mechanicsville, MD - Self-motivated and independent senior web application developer with a Top Secret clearance  - Skilled at defining and incorporating user needs into cost-effective, secure and user-friendly solutions that are highly reliable and scalable.  - Proven leader and project manager, guiding system architecture decisions and leading projects from concept through the release process. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Owner SLATEBLUE SOLUTIONS, LLC September 2013 to Present Organized and is working to establish a small, web development business. Researched small  businesses, performed market analyses and examined personal goals to determine the direction  and focus of the business. Planned long- and short-term goals and designed and began  implementation of a website.  Accomplishments:    • Successfully completed a few consulting projects on Upwork to enhance existing sites.  Customers were pleased with the cost, quality and delivery schedule and requested follow- on jobs.  • Determined and documented a reasonable set of goals for the business based on the current market, past development and industry experience and available skill sets.  • Began learning new technologies or expanded use of existing skillset. Software Programmer ENGILITY CORPORATION June 2014 to October 2018 As a part-time, remote developer, supported the P8 AIMS web application for a NAVAIR  customer. Analyzed system change requests for their impact on the entire application from a code and database standpoint with the goal of making the tool more useful to the Naval  aviation end-user and customer. Assisted with various other efforts as needed.  Accomplishments:    • Performed ongoing system engineering activities for the evaluation of user feedback for inclusion in the system. After thorough requirements analysis for each feedback, analyzed  changes required to the information domain, code and database to determine the impact on the system and the level of effort involved.    • Updated and created new templates used to document and communicate information  between the development team, the CCB and the users regarding the entire system and changes made to it.    • Implemented approved changes to the ColdFusion and javascript code and SQL Server  database on local, test and production servers in the NAVAIR portal environment.    • Worked with the WebAdmin Team at IMD to transition the P8 AIMS site from the NMCI Core  Enclave to the eDMZ to allow non-NMCI users to access the site.    • Devised and implemented a configuration management process to ensure accurate  tracking of code versions.    • Created a small, Adobe Acrobat-based document search tool. HOME MOM AND FREELANCER STAY - Lexington Park, MD May 2009 to June 2013 Expanded existing knowledge of languages, applications and techniques while learning new  skills. Built small personal applications and a small website for a church. Consulted on public,  private and government projects.  Accomplishments:    • Researched upgrades and enhancements to ColdFusion, including the latest version,  ColdFusion 10.    • Learned PHP and some ASP.NET.    • Learned how to implement SEO, eCommerce and blogs.    • Gained a better understanding of the implementation of AJAX and jQuery and created  sample applications to test understanding. Senior Consultant GEORGE CONSULTING, LTD February 2008 to February 2009 Led a systems engineering and development team of two people in the development,  enhancement, maintenance and support of both internal and customer applications.  Documented and standardized SDLC processes toward the goal of a CMMi certification while meeting rapidly evolving customer requirements.  Accomplishments:    • Maintained existing websites, to include NAVAIR IP Intranet, Metrics Manager Tool, Business  Opportunities Tool, and the Labor Data Collection System. Identified and implemented  enhancements to applications to provide users with added or improved functionality and make the applications easier to maintain and more scalable    • Defined, developed and deployed two complex data management and analysis  applications to the Navy and Marine Corps FMS community. Trained and supported the users of the new applications with overwhelmingly positive customer and user feedback.    • Defined and documented a standardized and repeatable software development process in accordance with CMMi best-practices. Developed a schedule for obtaining CMMi level 2  certification.    • Administered five Windows 2003 servers running Java, Tomcat, Microsoft SQL Server,  ColdFusion, MySQL, IIS, and Microsoft Exchange Server, including patching and upgrading  servers and software as needed.    • Automated document and software configuration management and the management of trouble reports related to supported applications. Owner BUMBLE BEE BYTES, LLC - Lexington Park, MD September 2005 to December 2008 240-298-3947  hmwasniak@yahoo.com  Owned and operated a small business providing web application and various other technical  services to both DoD and corporate customers.  Accomplishments:    • Defined, developed and deployed three commercial websites to the satisfaction of customers with an aggressive schedule and reasonable cost.  • Performed upgrades as a subcontractor to a DoD MS Access application allowing NMCI  users to maintain access. Web Developer SABRE SYSTEMS, INC January 2007 to February 2008 Enhanced an in-house application provided to DoD customers. Performed requirements analysis and solutions comparisons for a DoD customer.  Accomplishments:    • Enhanced the user interfaces of the DataExchange and RiskExchange to be more effective  and efficient using such technologies as SVG and AJAX.  • Performed analysis of user and sponsor requirements for a new software solution and of the available options. Used the results of the analysis to recommend a best-fit solution to the  customer. Software Application Engineer EMA, INC May 2006 to January 2007 Provided guidance on achieving a CMMi level 3 ceritifcation.  Accomplishments:    • Developed plans and documents for reaching CMMi level 3 certification.  Provided training and helped to change the cultural view of process improvement. Web Application Developer WYLE - Telecommute April 2006 to May 2006 Assisted in a short-term requirements solicitation and documentation task for a DoD customer. Web Team Technical Lead SABRE SYSTEMS, INC - Lexington Park, MD March 2005 to May 2006 Managed a team of 3 developers while continuing to directly support customer requirements. Web Application Developer SABRE SYSTEMS, INC December 2001 to March 2005 Performed all software development lifecycle activities for existing and new web applications for DoD customers. Assisted in the design, architecture and development of a robust in-house  application to be offered to corporate and government entities. Directly managed projects and successfully interacted with customers to improve the team's reputation. Guided a four-person  team of developers in tasking priorities, design decisions and customer interface using a modified  Agile environment. Implemented CMMi level 2 or higher practices for the team, company and customer.  Accomplishments:    • Interfaced with users and customers to define and implement application goals in the most  efficient and effective manner.  • Developed several data management applications, including document and risk  management.  • Provided critical assistance in the design and development of in-house applications known  as DataExchange and RiskExchange intended to provide a modular platform on which a variety of data management application could be efficiently built for DoD customers.  • Led in efforts to achieve CMMi level 2 and 3 certifications for the DoD customer, the company and the web team.   • Designed and developed an advanced web application to manage and relate documents and processes to the requirements of the various levels of certification to provide evidence of compliance during audits and provide a more efficient means of internal assessment.   • Implemented the Telelogic suite in conjunction with custom- built tools to provide a best-fit solution for the customer. ColdFusion Developer INFORMATION SPECTRUM INCORPORATED April 2001 to December 2001 Maintained and enhanced one of the Engineering Investigations applications used by the Navy with particular attention to complication with Section 508. Prepared the application for inclusion  in the NMCI Portal as part of Task Force Web and migrated portions of the application as portlets to the portal.  Accomplishments:    • Led the team through the integration with the NMCI Portal by representing the application  at planning meetings, researching requirements and migrating portions of the application in order to meet migration deadlines. Web Developer RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CONCEPTS - Lexington Park, MD October 1999 to April 2001 Learned ColdFusion and Flash and used these skills to successfully develop many applications for Navy and Marine Corps entities at NAS Pax River.  Accomplishments:    • Learned ColdFusion, Flash, Flash ActionScript, CSS, Javascript, SQL, Java and UML to better  support the growing needs of the company.  • Developed a Flash-based computer assisted training course for the federal government's  METCAL program. Consulted with subject matter experts to ensure the accuracy of the information. Created paper course material and taught several classes of users who would  later be sent around the world to provide instruction to the ultimate users of the information.  • Analyzed requirements, designed and developed a ColdFusion and Flash application to serve as an electronic integrated contingency plan for a power plant and the NAS Pax River  and provided end-user training on the customer site for both systems.  • Designed and developed a ColdFusion and MySQL asset management system based on the needs of environmental scientists and engineers. Education BS in Computer Management and Information Systems in Computer Management Information Systems UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND UNIVERSITY COLLEGE 2002 Mathematics and Computer Science ST. MARY'S COLLEGE OF MARYLAND 1999 to 2000 Skills HTML (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), XML (10+ years), jQuery (5 years), ColdFusion (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), Adobe Photoshop (10+ years), Ajax (5 years) Additional Information VOLUNTEERISM  Margaret Brent Middle School Volunteer  (Mechanicsville, MD), 2016 to Present     Margaret Brent Middle School PTA Treasurer  (Mechanicsville, MD), 2017 to Present     Lettie Marshall Dent Elementary School PTA Treasurer  (Charlotte Hall, MD), 2014 to 2015     Lettie Marshall Dent Elementary School  Volunteer   (Charlotte Hall, MD), 2013 to 2018     Green Holly Elementary School  Volunteer   (California, MD), 2010 to 2013     IHM Webmaster   (Lexington Park, MD), 2012 to 2016