Web Content Operations Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Content Operations <span class="hl">Developer</span> Ironfire Strength and Fitness – Group Personal Trainer San Diego, CA Knowledgeable front-end web content developer versed in E-commerce platforms and content management systems. Experienced with working in a professional, fast-paced team-oriented environment. Prepared to encounter new challenges, which promote creative approaches and growth in both graphics and web industries. Continually examining methods to better understand and master all front-end technologies. Work Experience Web Content Operations Developer Sony Electronics - San Diego, CA 2012 to Present • Manage and update Portable Audio, Mobile Phones and Tablet categories in Sony online store (http://store.sony.com)  • Execution of assigned product merchandising activities: promotions, product launches, marketing campaign coordination, etc.  • Adhere to strict deadlines within Sony Store Online via GSI Commerce Platform and PAL STEPWorkbench Software applications.  • Perform Quality Assurance (QA) testing and troubleshooting defects that occur on a daily basis.  • Successfully facilitated transition to new GSI ECommerce and Ebay Enterprise's GSI Commerce platform.  • Launched Portable Audio and Mobile Phones Category for CES (Consumer Electronics Show). Web Content Specialist Sony Electronics - San Diego, CA 2011 to 2012 • Updated and maintained content for Family Center and Sony Outlet Store.  • Trouble shot & repaired discrepancies such as: broken images, descriptions and descriptive attributes.  • Launch products and promotions in a CMS environment for Car & Marine Audio, Mobile Phones, Tablet and Outlet.  • Ensure website design and content comply with style guide, graphics standards and deadlines. Quality Assurance (QA) Website Development Mad Engine, Inc - Washington, DC 2010 to 2010 • Converted old CSS pages into the new CSS pages according to new template guideline.  • Implemented web development test cycles for multiple web browser compliance. Graphic Designer Mad Engine, Inc - San Diego, CA 2009 to 2010 • Designed, developed and created retail catalogs for high profile clients (Hasbro, Disney, Marvel, Lucas Film Ltd.) as well as Mad Engine, Inc.  • Managed the flow of licensed artwork and print flow though central print controller.  • Developed and designed marketing assets for clients and company brand. Lead Web Developer CBCA Tech - San Diego, CA 2007 to 2009 • Designed and Coded custom websites for clients (Speak Inc., Parker White, Mary Vega Insurance)  • Build websites in table-less CSS format that validate to W3C standards.  • Created and integrated websites using a content management system. Education Bachelors of Science in Media Arts Platt College - San Diego, CA 2005 to 2007 Associates of Applied Science in Graphic Design Platt College - San Diego, CA 2004 to 2005 Skills Graphic Design, Website Design, Website Developer, Quality Assurance Testing, Javascript, HTML, CSS, E-Commerce, Content Developer Assessments Written Spanish for English Speakers — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to respond to basic requests written in Spanish. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/abu6xlfqcjeefnbd Graphic Design — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jv-u0vp9vrkrj5p6 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  eBay Enterprise Commerce Technologies (GSI Commerce), Websphere Commerce, Accelerator WebSphere Commerce, Team Site Interwoven, Endeca Web Studio, PAL STEPWorkbench, Dreamweaver CS5, Photoshop CS5, Illustrator CS5, InDesign CS5, HTML, XHTML, CSS, WordPress. Excellent understanding of SEO and WAI guidelines, XHTML coding with table-less CSS layout, PHP, JavaScript, Action script, proficient in both Mac/ PC Platforms, Microsoft Office.