Senior UX|UI Designer Senior UX|UI Designer Senior UX|UI Designer Phoenixville, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UX|UI Designer NTT DATA 2016 to April 2019 • Provided input to decision-making for strategic solutions and user-centered designs on multiple projects.  • Collaborated with product managers, business/stakeholders, and developers to define product requirements; designed and documented UI Specs across Angular applications.  • Created and managed a design system.  • Maintained reusable website components, specs and code.  • Responsible for Information Architecture on reusable component library site. Freelance 2006 to 2016 • Prototyped, structured and launched web sites for four companies, and maintained site enhancements.  • Implemented key usability initiatives for healthcare website. UX/UI Developer CardConnect 2014 to 2015 • Tracked project requirements, led wireframe design discussions, and designed wireframes, user flows, and hi-res comps for desktop and mobile projects.  • Implemented designs into cross-browser HTML templates. Web Developer 2006 to 2014 • Team member, designer and implementer for major rewrite of HTML/CSS components of Sales Force Automation system site.  • Maintained internal website updates, implemented performance optimizations and UI fixes to improve employee satisfaction with 30-day deadlines.  • Used Wicket in development of new web applications to enhance sales force speed in customer contact.  • Member of creative design team to create UI for Sales Force Automation (MediaPro). Web Designer 2005 to 2006 • Redesigned sales aids for release of YellowBook.com and Pay-Per-Click Program.  • Spearheaded wireframes and high-fidelity designs for yellowbook.com homepage and secondary pages. Web Designer Cendyn 2004 to 2005 Designed and developed hospitality websites, managed content for tourist industry sites, and created email marketing campaigns for clients. Education B.S. in Marketing in Marketing/Digital Media Albright College 2000 to 2004 Skills PROTOTYPING, ARCHITECTURE, INFORMATION ARCHITECTURE, SKETCHING, WIREFRAMES Additional Information SKILLS  Photoshop  Axure RP  Balsamiq  InDesign  HTML/CSS  LESS/SASS  Bootstrap  WordPress  Visual Studio  Eclipse  ATOM  Git  Agile  JIRA  Bitbucket  Confluence    EXPERTISE  Brainstorming Sessions  UX Research  User-Center Design Process  Information Architecture  Sketching  Site Maps  Wireframes  Design Patterns  Style Guides  Team collaboration  Low/High fidelity prototyping  Personas  Scenarios  Sitemaps    CONNECT WITH ME  Linkedin  www.andreapucke.com