Front End Web Developer Front End <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer Austin, TX Full stack web developer and Airforce veteran with a growing knowledge of front-end and back-end programming languages, responsive frameworks and best coding practices. Three years experience in web development and programming, web marketing and web project management. Work Experience Front End Web Developer ITC Management Group - Orlando, FL August 2018 to July 2019 ? Designed and develop applications on intranet portal, company websites, and mobile platforms.  ? Coded and designed websites and interfaces from scratch  ? Proficient in programming languages and markup text such as HTML5, CSS3, Javascript & JQuery.  ? Troubleshooted and fixed bugs during application deployment.  ? Experience with git bash terminal and github management and workflow.  ? Experience with programming editors Visual Studio and Atom.  ? Experience with WordPress implementation and maintenance.  ? Ensured effective and efficient QA and cross-browser testing  ? Built front end landing pages  ? Contributed to product conceptualization, ideas and market strategies. Instructor, Web Development Socrates Prep School - Casselberry, FL August 2017 to January 2018 32707    ? Responsible for the development and implementation of departmental curriculum objectives to include software programming and computer based languages such as HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, and Javascript  ? Taught a wide variety of subjects to include: web design, introduction to computers and computer typing,  ? Taught technical front end development classes at the Middle school level  ? Evaluated students to measure their progress toward achievement of stated course objectives and informed them of their progress in the course in a timely manner.  ? Worked with the educational staff to create and implement a robotics course. Junior Web Developer KeyTech Solutions - Orlando, FL October 2015 to August 2017 ? Developed and designed responsive websites, applications and innovative digital brand using CSS3 HTML5, Javascript, MySQL, Bootstrap and Semantic UI.  ? Developed and validated test routines and schedules to ensure that test cases mimic external interfaces and address all browser and device types.  ? Experienced with front end development using APIs or Web Services I.E. Wordpress and Hostgator and GoDaddy.  ? Coordinated QA testing with staff to ensure comprehensive test coverage, effective performance and load test  ? Updated existing company applications to meet the security and functionality standards as outlined in the company's website policies. Instructor Social Sciences - Port Orange, FL August 2012 to June 2016 32129    ? Taught a wide variety of subjects during tenure to include: U.S. History, World History, Psychology, Law and Government  ? Planned, organized and executed lesson plans for over 300 high school students.  ? Maintained accurate files and grades through software to effectively communicate student progress to parents.  ? Trained in State IEP requirements and documentation and evaluating student needs based on learning disabilities. Armament Systems Specialist U.S. Air Force - San Antonio, TX July 1999 to July 2012 United States Air Force    ? Maintained and installed hardware and software systems on F-117 Stealth bombers and F-16 aircraft.  ? Inspected and repaired aircraft release, launch, suspension navigation systems and aircraft munitions.  ? Analyzed malfunctions and performed routine troubleshooting, of launch and suspension systems.  ? Perform routine network start to shut down procedures on GPS aircraft systems and configured and tested computer software to analyze and diagnose problems.  ? Participated in the test and evaluation of electronic circuitry for continuity, voltage, and proper operation of prototype aircraft weapons systems. Education Certification in web development and software programming University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL November 2018 to May 2019 Bachelor's of Science in Criminal Justice Colorado Technical University - Colorado Springs, CO May 2008 Associate in Aircraft Armament Systems Technology Air Force Institute of Technology School of Engineering & Management - Randolph AFB, TX August 2000 to May 2002 Skills Visual studio, Api, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Mvc, Css, Web design, jquery, Ui, Ux, Front end, Ux design, Semantic, Best practices, Front-End, HTML5, CSS3, Node Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/louiscarterjr/ http://Github.com/Babyhacker36 http://www.louiscarterjr.com Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: Ssgt E5 Certifications/Licenses Web Development and Design November 2018 to May 2019 A 24-week intensive program focused on gaining technical programming skills in HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Firebase, Node Js, MySQL, MongoDB, Express, Handlebars Js & ReactJS. Additional Information Relevant Skills    Front end development  UI /UX Design  Command of UI principles and best practices for responsive web design.  CSS  HTML  BootStrap / Semantic UI  Javascript  Jquery  Visual Studio (text Editor)  Git bash, GitHub management  API and MVC  Experience with Restful API's  Node.js Experience