Splunk Developer/Admin Splunk <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin Splunk Developer/Admin - Walmart • 10 years of extensive experience in Splunk, Linux/UNIX, PLSQL, SQL DBA. Monitoring, Data Analytics performance tuning, Troubleshooting and Maintenance of Data Base, Application Servers like Web Sphere Application Server, Tomcat, IBM HTTP Server, Apache Web Server, Load Balancing, JBoss, Splunk and Data Power.  • Experience with Web Services and load balancing configurations.  • Developed scripts (Python Scripting, Java Scripting, Shell scripting, Perl Scripting) as needed in support of data collection, reporting and presentation requirements  • Extensive experience and actively involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Reviews.  • Familiar with general security concepts (authentication, authorization, encryption, digital signatures, etc), PKI concepts and SSL.  • Experience in SSL cryptography, troubleshooting by viewing logs and dealing with XML threats.  • Creating accurate reports, Dashboards, Visualizations and Pivot tables for the business users.  • Implemented workflow actions to drive troubleshooting across multiple event types in Splunk.  • Working experience on Integrating Splunk with Windows Active Directory and LDAP.  • Installing and using Splunk apps for UNIX and Linux (Splunk nix)  • Around 3 years of experience as Splunk Admin/ Developer, performed activities including requirement analysis, design and implementations of various client server based applications using Splunk 5.x, Splunk 6.x.  • Strong administrative skills, experience in deployment and configuration of EAR, WAR and JAR files with other resources like database, message queues and access management tools for application security in Web Sphere  • Extensive experience in configuring the HTTP Server for various clustered application servers using virtual hosting and enabling SSL security.  • Worked on log parsing, complex Splunk searches, including external table lookups.  • Experience on Splunk data flow, components, features and product capability.  • Experience on Splunk search construction with ability to create well-structured search queries that minimize performance impact.  • Expertise in Installation, Configuration, Migration, Trouble-Shooting and Maintenance of Splunk, Passionate about Machine data and operational Intelligence.  • Good knowledge in SOA, Web services, SOAP WSDL, WS Security and UDDI in Data power.  • Involved in solution architecture of IBM Data power XS40, XI50, XI52, WS Security, MQ, Data management and data integration techniques.  • Experienced in administration of Data power XS40, XI50 and XI52 devices.  • Experience in administration and configuring of Deployment Policy, WS-Proxies, XML Firewall, SSL Proxy Profiles, Multi Gateway Protocol, Load Balancer groups, and other objects.  • Writing PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, triggers to meet new features to be incorporated in the system to implements business rules.  • Created clustered and non-clustered indexes for increasing the performance, also monitored the indexes by troubleshooting any corrupt indexes by removing fragmentation from indexes.  • Expertise in Actuate Reporting, development, deployment, management and performance tuning of Actuate reports.  • Created and Managed Splunk DB connects Identities, Database Connections, Database Inputs, Outputs, lookups, access controls.  • Experience on Splunk Enterprise Deployments and enabled continuous integration on as part of configuration (props.conf, Transforms.conf, Output.confg) management.  • Extensive experience in deploying, configuring and administering Splunk clusters.  • Upgrade and Optimize Splunk setup with new discharges.  • Setup Splunk Forwarders for new application levels brought into environment.  • Experience with Splunk Searching and Reporting modules, Knowledge Objects, Administration, Add-On's, Dashboards, Clustering and Forwarder Management.  • Expertise Splunk query language and Monitored Database Connection Health by using Splunk DB connect health dashboards.  • Hands-on Database Design & Development experience in both Oracle and MS SQL.  • SplunkModules: Splunk 6.2, Splunk 6.1.3, Splunk on Splunk, Splunk Enterprise, Splunk DB Connect, Splunk Cloud, Splunk Web Framework.    Networking: TCP/IP Protocols, Socket Programming, DNS, HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, SNMP, LDAP, DNS, DHCP.  IDE: Force.com IDE, Eclipse 3.5, Sublime, Web Sphere Integration Developer.  Scripting: Shell scripting, Perl scripting, python scripting, Java scripting, Batch. Work Experience Splunk Developer/Admin Walmart - Niagara Falls, NY December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Install, configure and administer Splunk Enterprise Server 6.0.4 and Splunk Forwarder 4.x.x/5.x.x/6.x.x on Redhat Linux and Windows severs.  • Setup Splunk Forwarders for new application tiers introduced into environment and existing applications.  • Extensive experience in configuring the HTTP Server for various clustered application servers using virtual hosting and enabling SSL security  • Created Splunk app for Enterprise Security to identify and address emerging security threats through the use of continuous monitoring, alerting and analytics.  • Work closely with Application Teams to create new Splunk dashboards for Operation teams.  • Troubleshooting and resolve the Splunk - performance, search poling, log monitoring issues; role mapping, dashboard creation etc. Experience with Web Services and load balancing configurations.  • Experienced in administration of Data power XS40, XI50 and XI52 devices.  • Experience in administration and configuring of Deployment Policy, WS-Proxies, XML Firewall, SSL Proxy Profiles, Multi Gateway Protocol, Load Balancer groups, and other objects.  • Experience in creating SQL loader scripts to load data from flat files into the database and also creating External Tables to manage data which is store at the OS level.  • Working knowledge of data warehouse techniques and practices, experience including ETL processes,  • Using monitoring tools to track every day data and gather additional information required based on need dimensional data modeling (Star Schema, Snow Flake Schema, FACT & Dimension Tables), OLTP and OLAP  • Created Regular Expressions for Field Extractions and Field Transformations in Splunk.  • Configure Splunk for all the mission critical applications and using Splunk effectively for Application troubleshooting and monitoring post go lives  • Created Dashboards and Reports to show Login count of each application, to show which app resources being accessed more, Number of failed logins, statistics on High hitting applications.  • Created Shell Scripts to install Splunk Forwarders on all servers and configure with common configuration files such as Bootstrap scripts, Outputs.conf and Inputs.conf files.  • Configured Splunk forwarder to send unnecessary log events to "Null Queue" using props and transforms configurations to reduce license costs.  • Experienced in attending the bridge calls for production issues and non-prod issues and involved application teams or database teams or networking teams to resolve the issues and involved in Root cause analysis for the issues encountered. Also provided 24/7 on call support for all the production applications.  • Application Servers like Web Sphere Application Server, Tomcat, IBM HTTP Server, Apache Web Server, Load Balancing, JBoss, Splunk and Data Power.  • On a scheduled basis, configure backups, verify custom reports, manage log source groups, and validate log sources with client  • Review and apply any newly available and applicable Splunk software or policy updates routinely  • Manage Splunk user accounts (create, delete, modify, etc.)  • Add /Remove log sources. Troubleshoot issues with log sources or systems with vendor, and report system defects as needed  • Maintain current functional and technical knowledge of the Splunk platform and future products  • Environment: Splunk 6.x, Splunk Enterprise and Splunk modules, Web Logic server 8.x/9.x/10.x/11g, Tomcat 6.0, IBM HTTP Server, Apache 2.x, Solaris10, Oracle 11g/10g, Mercury 7, HP Site scope, web services, LDAP, HTTP, HTML, XML, SSL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI Splunk Admin Caterpillar Inc - Booneville, MS November 2015 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Installing, Configuring and Administering Splunk Enterprise Server 6.0/6.3.2 and Splunk Forwarder 6.0 on Red hat Linux and Windows severs.  • Onboarding performance monitoring tools for GCRM applications.  • Build performance dashboards through Splunk, Extrahop, writing Java script and customized scripts  • Worked with internal clients to develop requirements, relationships and value metrics.  • Expertise in Installation, Configuration, Migration, Trouble-Shooting and Maintenance of Splunk, Passionate about Machine data and operational Intelligence.  • Developed Splunk Dashboards, searches and reporting to support various internal clients in Security, IT Operations and Application Development.  • Assisted with on boarding relevant data sources as needed, including inputs, SQL, index-time configurations, search-time field extractions, event types, and tags.  • Developed best of breed performance and capacity planning metrics.  • Managed existing application and created new applications (visual and non-visual)  • Maintaining Data repository Data correlation and trending.  • Maintain documentation of applications including what work has been done, what is left to do and site-specific procedures documenting the Splunk environment.  • Work with application team and production support team to troubleshoot production performance and reliability issues  • Involved in installing and using Splunk app for Linux and UNIX.  • Involved in developing complex scripts to automate batch jobs.  • Manage Splunk configuration files like inputs, props, transforms, and lookups.  • Worked on T SQL queries and altering and defining for related data bases.  • Developed scripts (Python Scripting, Java Scripting, Shell scripting, Perl Scripting) as needed in support of data collection, reporting and presentation requirements.  • Independently identified opportunities to improve operational and other performance for Security, IT Operations and other clients.  • Very good understanding of software development life-cycle (SDLC) process, followed Agile Scrum and story maps for dev tracking.  • Involved in interacting with business owners, developers and business analysts in improving the application.  • Involved in helping the UNIX and Splunk administrators to deploy Splunk across the UNIX and windows environment.  • Helped the client to setup alerts for different type of errors.  • Parsing, Indexing, Searching concepts Hot, Warm, Cold, Frozen bucketing.  • Analyzed large datasets to identify metrics, drivers, performance gaps and opportunities for improvement.  • Worked on large datasets to generate insights and communicate insights to guide strategic roadmap.  • Used Splunk tool in order to analyze the logs in the applications.  • Involved in handling various Incident and request related to the application.  • Environment: Splunk 6.2, Splunk 6.1, Pivotal HD, Datameer, Linux, Bash, Perl, Oracle 11g, Splunk Knowledge Objects. Splunk Developer Becton & Dickinson - San Jose, CA January 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Gather Splunk requirements for on boarding data and estimate storage requirements and time frame to onboard data.  • Worked on security solutions (SIEM) that enable organizations to detect, respond and prevent these threats by providing valuable context and visual insights to help you make faster and smarter security decisions.  • Implemented workflow actions to drive troubleshooting across multiple event types in Splunk.  • Experience on Splunk Enterprise Deployments and enabled continuous integration on as part of configuration (props.conf, Transforms.conf, Output.confg) management.  • Splunk DB Connect 2.0 in search head cluster environments of Oracle.  • Connect all forwarders to deployment server and update configurations  • Create alerts and reports for license utilizations for each teams or pools  • Configured Splunk Searching and Reporting modules, Knowledge Objects, Administration, Add-On's, Dashboards, Clustering and Forwarder Management.  • Expertise in creating and customizing Splunk applications, searches and dashboards as desired by IT teams and business.  • Analyzed security based events, risks and reporting instances.  • Experience with Splunk technical implementation, planning, customization, integration with big data and statistical and analytical modeling.  • Independently identified opportunities to improve operational and other performance for Security, IT Operations and other clients.  • Splunk configuration that involves different web application and batch, create Saved search and summary search, summary indexes.  • Various types of charts alerts settings Knowledge of App creation, user and role access permissions.  • Creating and Managing Apps, Create user, role and Permissions to Knowledge objects.  • Managing indexes and cluster indexes, Splunk web framework, data model and pivot tables.  • Hands on development experience in customizing Splunk dashboards, visualizations, configurations, reports and search capabilities using customized Splunk queries.  • Managed Indexer Clusters including security, hot and cold bucket management and retention policies.  • Setup and configuration of search head cluster with three search head nodes and managing the search head cluster with deployer.  • Responsible for documenting the current architectural configurations and detailed data flow, and Troubleshooting Guides for application support.  • Designing and maintaining production-quality Splunk dashboards.  • Splunk Enterprise Deployments and enabled continuous integration on as part of configuration management.  • Expertise in Actuate Reporting, development, deployment, management and performance tuning of Actuate reports.    • Knowledge about Splunk architecture and various components (indexer, forwarder, search head, deployment server), Heavy and Universal forwarder, License model.  • Hands-on Database Design & Development experience in both Oracle and MS SQL.  • Writing PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, triggers to meet new features to be incorporated in the system to implements business rules.  • Created clustered and non-clustered indexes for increasing the performance, also monitored the indexes  • By troubleshooting any corrupt indexes by removing fragmentation from indexes  • Environment: Splunk 6.x, Splunk DB Connect and other modules, Oracle Web Logic 9.x/10.x, JBoss 5.x/6.x, Tomcat 5.x/6.x, Oracle 9i/10g, Solaris 10, LINUX, Sun ONE Directory Server 6, Sun O  • Server 6.0, Apache 2.x, python Web Developer Skill Soft Corp - Boston, MA October 2009 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for authoring of website functionality with JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Used agile methodology for the software development. Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  • Developed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low cost application integration and multi-tier web applications with the use of web Services using ASP.Net web API.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Responsible for making AJAX Calls for the UI Interactions to the Controller Actions using Angular JS and getting the Data back as JSON and parsing it onto the UI.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features. Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Worked with external customer's web developer, building custom APIs for their apps to integrate with AgHost's weather and stock market tools.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript. Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites. Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages; Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive design and media queries.  • Used JQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information. Rapid prototyping of design concepts.  • Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle, JQuery, XML, Eclipse, UNIX, AJAX, Adobe Creative suite, JSON, MS Office, MySQL and SVN. PL/SQL Developer Newport Beach, CA May 2008 to September 2009 Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in writing PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers to implement business rules into the application.  • Extensively involved in analyzing and tuning long running jobs in production.  • Created and maintained UNIX Shell Scripts for database proactive monitoring.  • Provided technical guidance for integration, testing, design, development, planning of new major, large scale, production systems/databases.  • Integrated/collaborated with application development and support teams on various IT projects.  • Used SQL *Loader to load data from Excel file into temporary table and developed PL/SQL program to load data from temporary table into base Tables.  • Develop technical documents for all the programs developed & generated.  • Develop and reviewed technical design documents to ensure the changes fit into existing architecture and, follow all the guide lines and all programming changes are recorded for audits and future reference.  • Used agile methodology for the software development. Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  • Developed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low cost application integration and multi-tier web applications with the use of web Services using ASP.Net web API.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Generate SQL Scripts and create views for reports.  • Used Toad to Extract and test the data in the database.  • Used Toad to Extract and test the data in the database.  • Installed, patched and upgraded of Oracle core technology products; Oracle database (both Standard/Enterprise editions 11g and 12c), Fusion Middleware 11g and security management.  • Played key role in coding and debugging.  • Implemented various UNIX scripts to generate the data in txt format.  • Environment: Oracle8i/9i, Forms 6i, Reports 6i, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*Loader, Toad, Windows NT/XP Education Bachelors of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering K L University Skills ORACLE (10+ years), DATABASE (8 years), LINUX (6 years), WEB SERVICES (5 years), MYSQL (4 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows XP Pro / Vista/ ME, Windows Server 2008, Red Hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x.  Database: Oracle, MySQL.  Web Services: SOAP and REST, Web Sphere Application Server8.x/7.x/6.x/5.x.  Apache Web Server 2.0/2.2.x  IBM Http Server 1.3.26.x/2.0.42.x/2.0.47.x/6.0, IIS6/7  IBM Http Server 1.3.26.x/2.0.42.x/2.0.47.x/6.0, IIS6/7.  Tomcat 4.x/5.x./6.x/7.x, Data Power XI50/XS40/XI52. JBoss EAP5/6  Server: Apache HTTP Web server, IIS, Oracle Application Server, Apache Tomcat.