Sr Full Stack Web Developer Sr Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer, Database Engineer - Compact Information Systems Seattle, WA To continue my programming career at an exciting and fast-paced company Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Full Stack Web Developer Quorum Review IRB - Seattle, WA May 2015 to Present ? Led development team on multi-user simultaneous online collaboration tool project  ? Architected and built from ground up single and multi-page apps  ? Worked extensively with Mongo, Express, Angular and Node  ? Created gorgeous, responsive sites built with the latest languages  ? Interfaced with third party APIs to build internal and externally facing apps  ? Revamped UX/UI for both internal and external apps  ? Built both front and back-end systems in an agile environment in accordance with FDA regulations for documentation and security  ? Earned personal recognition from client CEO and chairman of client Board of Directors Freelance New York, NY 2003 to Present Built tracking system for donations made to non-profits using PHP/SQL  ? Designed and developed websites for clients including PepsiCo, Wired, and Mercedez  ? Worked with frameworks such as CakePHP and Drupal  ? Created and installed comprehensive CMS for clients using PHP and SQL  ? Developed secure payment features for ecommerce sites Web Developer, Database Engineer Compact Information Systems - Seattle, WA August 2013 to May 2015 ? Built customizable widgets for third-party resellers to securely access and order information from a massive database of customer information using AJAX with a PHP backend and previously existing SQL databases of consumer information  ? Designed and created schema-less databases and their front-end interfaces for internal and external use, to eventually replace outdated database architectures  ? Debugged legacy code and added new features  ? Maintained, owned and optimized massive database of consumer information  ? Implemented custom mapping program using C# and .NET  ? Wrote documentation for third party resellers Web Developer/Designer Ziff Davis - New York, NY 2009 to 2010 ? Worked with a proprietary coding language to create virtual tradeshows  ? Created an automated calendar for producers using Visual Basic  ? Created digital events with a combination of HTML, CSS, Javascript and PHP Head of IT/Webmaster Unigo - New York, NY 2007 to 2009 Supervised a staff of twenty  ? Worked with outside developers to fix bugs and usability issues on a PHP based system  ? Created Content Management System for a comprehensive web 2.0 startup  ? Developed automated emailing program for use by content gatherers Education BA Pratt Institute 2007 Skills Javascript (angular, jQuery, bootstrap, underscore), REST APIs, NodeJS, Express, MongoDB, JSON, SOAP, XML, PHP 5, MySQL, MSSQL, Foxpro, MongoDB, Visual Basic, HTML5, XHTML CSS, SASS, LESS, C#, .NET, Java (7 years), Java, Node, Angular, Javascript, React