System Architect, DBA System Architect, DBA System Architect, DBA - Cass Information Systems Simpsonville, SC An analytical and detail-oriented engineering professional with comprehensive technical experience encompassing system architecture, web development, client/server technology, object-oriented programming, testing and process documentation, project management, and extensive software development life cycle experience. Proven abilities assessing complex situations and diagnosing issues to implement best solutions for software configuration. An adept technical trainer who develops and leads diverse teams to improve productivity. A proven self-starter who leads complex projects to achieve established objectives and facilitate long-term growth.    Over 20 years of experience as a web application developer, system architect and project manager. Work Experience System Architect, DBA Cass Information Systems - Greenville, SC 2016 to Present • Primary responsibilities include, transfer existing classic ASP web applications into the new EUP Portal. Additionally, each module and application are required to have multiple language translation capabilities and display normalized and original currency values.  • Design and create complex reports with multiple data points querying millions of records and massaging the data into summarized allocated expenses. Making the reports responsive and scalable in an environment with billions of data records.  • Design and create a report widget system. This system allows users to create reports with predefined filters as well as email these reports to users, managers or rolls. These emails have a report chart and an excel spreadsheet with all the relevant data included. Additionally, these reports can be displayed and moved around on different pages on the EUP Portal.  • Optimizing stored procedures for an enterprise environment, configure table structures and indexes.  • Working with and optimizing reports using AngularJS for speed and synchronous calling. Evicore - Bluffton, SC 2015 to 2017 Web Applications Developer Evicore 2015 to 2016 • Design and create multiple web application for Evicore's core business. These applications were designed with express intent of streamlining the business's call center, and customer application management.  • Design and develop Radcare+ Administration web application using MVC5. This application is used for administration of Insurance Carriers such as (BCBS, HIGHMARK, Aetna, etc), and gives them the ability to associate facilities and providers with Radiation Therapy treatment programs to the implementation. This allows for correct assignment of customers with approved insurance claims to get to the correct facilities and providers in their area covered by their medical insurance.  • Design and developed (PI Rollover Service). This service was designed with the express intent of reducing the amount of cases waiting from approval. The approval process can be costly to the business as it sometimes requires doctors or nurses to review the cases. This service is set up to run nightly and retrieve pending cases that have yet to be approved. It then runs each case through a strict and complex vetting process that ultimately uses predictive intelligence data to approve pending medical cases. This application reduced the need for the business to hire 10 or more nurses and greatly reduced the amount of backlogged cases.  • Assist with a large business effort to convert from ICD9 to ICD10 medical codes. The International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems 10th Revision (ICD10). This effort on my part largely consisted of creating a web application that would connect to a web service and pull the correct ICD10 codes from the database for a specific medical/health problem. This application is used daily by the over 1000 call center operators in direct connection with a customer. Due to the large call volume and continuous utilization this created significant overhead on the servers. A lot of work and time was put it on the database and web services to optimize the return result speed. Web Developer, DBA 2014 to 2015 • Designed and developed Political Action Committee UI web application, helping accounting with keeping track of PAC contributions pulled from dividends earned by the policy holders. Added additional features, including site administration, adding and removing vendors and setting up dividend declarations.  • Maintained and modified agency portal web application. Added new lines of business and design new quoting system for business owner policies, enabling agents to provide real time BOP insurance quotes to customers.  • Sustained and modified customer portal web application, used by policy holders to keep track of coverage, liability claims and payments. Designed new features such as CME tracking and discounts. Created new SSO login functionality for additional security and user friendly authentication.  • Administered and maintained multiple SharePoint web server and services. Work on existing C# SharePoint solutions and create new SharePoint WSP packages used for document tracking and email monitoring.  • Designed new features for owner circle web application, used for customer retention. Added new features, including earned dividend calculations and policy documentation generation in PDF format. System Architect, Web Applications Developer 2012 to 2014 • Designed and implemented mobile web bill payment system for multiple utility companies, such as Newnan Utilities and City of Henderson water.  • Created bill payment system for hospitals and clinics, keeping track of all bills and statements of patients for specific guarantor, and allowing guarantor to make payments on bills with auto pay and payment plans using credit card.  • Designed and connected to multiple web services for all credit card payment processing and authentication.  • Voided payment functionality and processing.  • Developed and implemented multiple websites for customers and CSR administration.  • Implemented and designed Quick Pay functionality for onetime bill payments, and hospital bills.  • Oversaw PCI compliance for all bill payment systems.  • Designed with strict security HTTPS/SSL. System Architect, DBA 2011 to 2012 • Encrypted and decrypted SAML Token/XML and data importing, generating and validating encryption keys.  • Developed web administration application for existing Prologix website with features, including roles, groups, accounts, permissions, and access levels.  • Designed and developed a system for printing medical cards for PEHP. Reported on imported data, generating extraction files. Create postscript files using Pres scripting language for printing medical cards; image creation and placement.  • Designed and developed system for printing medical cards for BCBSVT. Reported on imported data, generating extraction files. Created postscript files for creating multiple card types, images and logo generation.  • Handled documentation, change control, and testing in all stages of development as well as end to end testing, quality control and continuity of business.  • Created postscripts for printing and PDF document generation using Adobe Distiller. Oversaw imaging graphic design and image modifications. Web Developer, DBA ADECCO - Warren, MI 2010 to 2011 • Designed multiple e-commerce websites for auto dealers to enable them to purchase mandatory service repair tools from SPX. Created graphics and flash animation for marketing group.  • Maintained and updated multiple websites hosted by SPX.  • Performed testing and user acceptance on all new sites and on any changes to existing sites. Performed test first in test environment and then escalated.  • Designed the database schema and architectural design of the databases that support the new websites.  • Designed administration features for some of the existing SPX web sites, enabling marketing group to make changes to content and data.  • Performed data analysis and reporting on multiple websites to indicate discrepancies in data from multiple locations.  • Oversaw importing and exporting critical data daily for statistic reports, helping keep website data current and up-to-date. System Architect 2009 to 2010 • Served as project manager.  • Designed, coded, implemented and tested applications using C#, ASP. Net.  • Created print and apply application, interacting with printers and barcode scanners.  • Designed system, allowing operators interaction with 3x1 label printers to print barcodes onto pallets with X type products.  • Developed system, collecting barcode scanner data and matched data up within SQL Server database to produce 5x8 print labels with correct product information.  ? Environment//Tools Used: Windows XP, Exchange Server 2000, Microsoft Office 2007, ADO.NET, Stored Procedures, SSIS/DTS Packages, Visual Studio.NET 2008, and SQL Server 2005, MS Access 2000/2003, NetFramework 3.5, LINQ System Architect ECD - Auburn Hills, MI 2007 to 2009 • Created systems and applications used on plant floors.  • Developed database architecture for collection of data from multiple locations throughout solar cell manufacturing process.  • Designed and developed solutions for forecasting power output of solar cells before they were physically combined into modules.  • Developed and implemented applications in test environment.  • Produced test cases for newly developed applications based off design requirements.  • Performed testing and stress testing on all levels of newly developed applications.  • Implemented new and existing applications into production environment.  • Wrote new applications in VB.NET as window forms or Web Applications using ASP.NET/VB.NET.  ? Environment/Tools Used: Windows 2000 Server, Windows Server 2005, Windows XP, Exchange Server 2000, Microsoft Office 2007, IIS 5.0/6.0, HTML, DHTML, ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, JavaScript, VBScript, CSS, VB 6.0, ADO, ODBC, Stored Procedures, SSIS/DTS Packages, Visual Studio 6.0, Visual Studio 2003, Visual Studio 2008, and SQL Server 2000/2005, MS Access 2000/2003 DIVDAT - Ferndale, MI 2005 to 2008 LOWRY COMPUTER PRODUCTS, INC - Brighton, MI 2005 to 2008 MAGMUTUAL - Atlanta, GA 2005 to 2008 Web Applications Developer FISERV - Troy, MI 2006 to 2007 • Designed, coded, implemented and tested applications using C#, ASP. Net.  • Developed JavaScript functions to handle client-side validations.  • Involved in developing Web services.  • Worked on multiple databases to retrieve and store data, primarily SQL Server 2000.  • Produced complex SQL queries in stored procedures and views for multiple applications.  • Developed multiple applications for credit union's Fiserv supports.  • Created web applications, pulling credit data from web servers for credit union customers.  ? Environment/Tools Used: Windows 2000 Professional, Windows 2000 Server, Exchange Server 2000, MS Office 2000, IIS 5.0, HTML, DHTML, ASP.NET, C#, JavaScript, VBScript, ASP, CSS, VB, ADO, ODBC, COM, MTS, Stored Procedures, DTS Packages, Java, Java Applets, Adobe PhotoShop 6.0, Adobe Illustrator 8.0, Visual Studio 2003, Visual Studio 6.0 and SQL Server 2000 System Architect CITIGROUP - Irving, TX 2003 to 2006 • Designed and developed multiple websites for various business groups throughout Citigroup Corporation.  • Developed front end file manager for Domino file server's architecture, change management and continuity of business sections.  • Designed, developed and supported web applications for Home Depot account representatives, unit managers and operation managers.  • Provided project management.  • Reported on delinquents and OAC accounts.  • Reported on account representative login activity for day, along with productivity.  • Created controls for accounts in different time zones, preventing representatives from calling people at wrong time of day.  • Developed call queue system for representatives to call selected type of customer with accounts in different levels of delinquency.  • Involved in unit and system testing of all applications.  ? Environment/Tools Used: Windows 2000 Professional, Windows 2000 Server, Exchange Server 2000, Outlook 2000, IIS 5.0, HTML, DHTML, VB.NET, ASP.NET, C#, JavaScript, VBScript, ASP, CSS, VB, ADO, ODBC, COM, MTS, Stored Procedures, DTS Packages, Java, Java Applets, Adobe PhotoShop 6.0, Adobe Illustrator 8.0, Visual InterDev, Visual Studio 6.0 and SQL Server 7.0/2000 ANCOR - Troy, MI 2000 to 2005 Pres, GMC, Bat Files 2000 to 2005 Environment/Tools Used: Microsoft Office 2007, IIS 5.0/6.0, HTML, DHTML, ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#, ADO.NET, JavaScript, VBScript, CSS, VB 6.0, ADO, ODBC, Stored Procedures, SSIS/DTS Packages, Visual Studio.NET 2010, Visual Studio.NET 2008, Visual Studio.NET 2003, Visual Studio.NET 2005, SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, MS Access 2000/2003, CS5, .Net Framework 4.0 .Net Framework 3.5, .Net Framework 2.0, Pres, GMC, Bat Files. Printing and Post Script Files, SAML Web Developer AMERICANJOBS.COM - West Bloomfield Township, MI 2002 to 2003 Designed and developed front and backend VB/ASP programming for entire web site. Managed database architecture and design schema. Designed DTS packages and imported XML resumes daily, and batch jobs. Setup Email Exchange Server, Outlook, firewall and bulk email systems. Worked for third-party client Delmeia as a consultant. Created an auto generating VB App using a custom designed graphic model database that writes reports on placements of welding stations, conveyers, weld points and other objects added to the model. Web Applications Developer GEOGRAPHIC SOLUTIONS, INC - Palm Harbor, FL 2001 to 2002 Designed and developed Virtual Onestop enhancements for installation build kit. Customized individual and employer registration forms, job order forms with new and updated business rules for correct data entry. Created reports with HTML UI using ASP, DHTML, VB, COM, Stored Procedures, Pop Charts, Java Applets, JavaScript, graphs and TSQL. Created quarterly reports for Internal Revenue Service and many other day-to-day tasks, working in three-tiered web applications environment. Web Applications Developer INTERONE MARKETING GROUP - Troy, MI May 2000 to November 2000 Designed, developed, and built Intranet web based applications for cost efficient documentation management using ASP, VB, COM, JavaScript, and web classes with an Oracle backend database, PL/SQL, Oracle 8, and Personal Oracle 8I. Developed an on-line dictionary using ASP and Oracle 8 database. Developed a memo manager using ASP and Oracle 8 database. Developed business card forms using Web Classes COM and Oracle backend database. Designed a web application demo for overseas purchasing and billing of Chrysler and Dodge automobiles; some of the many features included currency exchange rates, competitors' products, and stats using DHTML, HTML, and JavaScript. Web Applications Developer Anomaly, Inc - Troy, MI 1999 to 2000 Developed an ECRM (Enterprise Corporate Resource Management) based application using ASP, Jscript, Visual Interdev, Visual Basic, DCOM, and Stored Procedures with a SQL Server database. Developed, maintained, and enhanced existing and new resource management applications using ASP, Jscript, Visual Interdev, Visual Basic, DCOM, and Stored Procedures with a SQL Server database. Led an effort to convert the existing data import routines to SQL. Developed a hospital patient tracking system using ASP, Site Server, Visual Basic, JavaScript, Visual Interdev, COM, MTS, and IIS with a SQL Server database. This was a B2B site that allowed secondary care providers access to patient medical records, history, current status, etc. Developed an Automotive B2B parts extranet web site using ASP, COM, Visual Interdev, Visual Basic, Stored Procedures, and JavaScript with a SQL Server database. Implemented secured web sites with 128-bit encryption for login passwords and credit cards and ASP Encrypt SSL IIS4 Configuration Certificate server. Web Application Developer Monitor Systems, Inc - Southfield, MI 1998 to 1999 Converted existing clients-server applications into B2B web enabled applications using ASP, Visual Basic, COM, DCOM, SSL, Site Server, Visual Interdev, and VBScript with a SQL Server database. Added new functionality to existing B2B applications, including user login systems, Reporting and Administration modules, etc. using ASP, Visual Basic, COM, DCOM, SSL, Visual Interdev, and VBScript with a SQL Server database. Education American Systems Technology Learning Tree 2014 New Horizons Computer Learning Center Skills ASP, CSS, DHTML, IIS, IIS 5 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#, MVC, XML, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, ASP, DHTML, JavaScript, Jquery, AngularJS, VBScript, TSQL, PL/SQL, LINQ, Visual Basic 5.0, 6.0, CSS, Action Script 2.0/3.0    Tools: Visual Studio.NET 2017, Visual Studio.NET 2015, Visual Studio.NET 2012, Visual Studio.NET 2010, Visual Studio.NET 2008, Visual Studio.NET 2005, Visual Studio.NET 2003, TFS, Visual Studio 6.0, Visual Source Safe 6.0, Adobe CS4 - CS6, Adobe Photoshop 6.0, Adobe Illustrator 8.0, Visual Basic 6.0, SSIS, DTS Packages, Exchange Server 2010 - 2000, Stored Procedures, Oracle 8, Personal Oracle 8I, Corel Draw 8, SQL Server Management Studio 2012-7.0.    Databases: SQL Server 6.5/7.0, SQL Server 2000, SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2017, Oracle, MYSQL, MS Access    Operating Systems: Windows Server 2012, 2008, Windows 10, Windows 7, Windows 2000/2003/XP/NT, Windows 2000 Server, Novell    Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP, IPX/SPX, XML, SAML, SAML 2.0, SSO    Web Servers: IIS 5.0/6.0/7.0/8.0/8.5