WordPress -Front End Developer WordPress -Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Developer Flushing, NY I am Bilal and my focus is full-stack web development using PHP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript. I have worked in SDLC and Agile shops following the Scrum methodology. I love to experiment with new technologies, patterns and design concepts and I'm not afraid of the unknown. Simply put, I love to learn and to put that knowledge to good use I am a passionate advocate of software that is easy to understand and use, and that meets customer requirements the first time. I work comfortably as a freelance contractor or as a member of an established team in agency,start-up, or corporate environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience WordPress -Front End Developer One solution studio - Flushing, NY January 2018 to Present Designing, coding, testing, debugging, documenting and supporting all types of applications consistent with established specifications and business requirements  to deliver business value.    Skills • Collaborate with the team on application architecture design and decision-making    • Troubleshoot production support issues P1, P2 post release deployment and come up with solutions.  PHP  • Responsibilities include produce the UI/UX design wireframes, the graphic and html mockups, translation of the UI/UX design wireframes, mockups to actual  code of websites and web apps. Bridge the gap between graphical design and Wordpress technical implementation, taking an active role on both sides and defining how the application looks as well as how it works    • Produce the UI design wireframes, the graphic or html mockups, translation of JS / jQuery  them to actual code of various projects: websites and web apps. WordPress theme  customization.    Joomla • Front-end development and content for internal-facing knowledge bases for technical support professionals. Project management and execution of major  content management system migration.    HTML5/CSS3  • e-Commerce and middleware development within a variety of content  management systems, especially WordPress and Joomla    • Deployed from local environment to staging then to production using Git and private repository WordPress-Front End Developer Colibri Group - Remote June 2015 to November 2017 Colibri Group is a family of brands that provide learning solutions for licensed  professionals across multiple industries, including real estate, healthcare,  personal care, financial services, and many more.    • Complete custom WordPress builds from a design PSD.  • WordPress Development, Theme Customization  • Coordinating with team members, designers and clients.  • Offering customer support through an email ticketing system, and occasional  phone/online meetings.    • Web development, hosting, and related services.  • Developing websites with custom themes, custom plugins, analytics, SEO, and so on.  • Working on Visual composer Elements and data integrations  • Working on Restful Api, Web Developer-Contractor Airbnb - Chicago, IL January 2013 to March 2015 Understands key server-side web development concepts through experiences  such as:  • Interpreting graphic visual or interaction designs in HTML, CSS and Javascript.  • Creating visually appealing web pages or interfaces.  • Familiarity of HTML syntax for multiple specifications, including HTML 5.  • Familiarity with the semantic markup for display of lists, tabular data, forms,  articles, etc.  • Specifying different CSS for various media, devices and displays.  • Methods for including CSS inline, internal and external via linked style sheets.  • How to define, combine and group CSS selectors for HTML elements, ID, classes,  pseudo classes,  child or sibling.  • Syntax of CSS declarations, properties and attributes.  • CSS box model and methods for CSS positioning, absolute and relative.  • Knowledge of properties and attributes to control the display.  • Knowledge of the operators, variables, datatypes, objects, properties and methods.  • Familiarity with control structures such as objects, functions, conditional  statements, arrays, loops and expressions.  • Forms and regular expression validation and submitting data.  • Knowledge of how to apply logical operators and conditional statements.  • Knowledge of the DOM HTML objects and their properties.  • Creating and controlling windows and dialogs.  • Processes for troubleshooting and debugging  • Familiarity with development and debugging tools for cross-browser issues.  • Technical Environment: Javascript, HTML, CSS, Java, Spring, Hibernate,  Eclipse IDE, Weblogic, SVN Web Developer / Designer- Contract Walt Disney Company - Burbank, CA September 2009 to October 2012 The Walt Disney Company, together with its subsidiaries, operates as an entertainment company worldwide. The company operates broadcast and  cable television networks, domestic television stations, and radio networks and stations; and is involved in the television production and television distribution  operations. Its cable networks include ESPN, Disney Channels, and ABC Family.  Project was to build internal business application; the objective of the application  is to facilitate the business process of creating on-air and off-air promotions by marketing group.    • Involved in Requirement gathering phase in order to gather the requirements  from the business users and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate  changing user requirements.    • Responsible for translating designs and concepts into highly usable and engaging  web applications using a variety of technologies.    • Converted business requirements into technical requirements in preparation of High level design document and functional specifications.    • Working with JavaScript (Angular JS, Bootstrap) to design and develop responsive  layouts.    • Created custom directives, filters and services to keep the code modular and reusable.    • Wrote AngularJS controllers, views, and services for new features.    • Wrote AngularJS Services to consume restful APIs and processing JSON data for rendering in UI.    • Created Angular custom services using service and factory methods, directives  and used various angular services like $root Scope, $modal, $location, $q,  geoLocation-Service, $filter, role Access Service as dependencies    • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using J QUERY/  AJAX.    • Used Agile/Scrum methodology of software development.    • Ensured Web Content is in compliance with W3C standards.    • Used tools such as firebug, web developer tools for debugging and correcting errors.    • Actively participated in providing feedbacks at daily standup meetings.    • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend (Java) code AJAX and JSON via REST web services and APIs.    • Wrote Angular Unit Tests and E2E Tests for Controllers, Directives and Filters.    • Version control management tool GIT and testing framework protractor for testing AngularJS web  applications.    • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular and J Query.    • Continuous interaction with BA to fully understand and implement the functional  requirements.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, SQL, Yeoman, gulp, Agile, Spring  MVC, Spring JDBC, AngularJS, J Query, JSON, Ajax, Protractor and MS Office. Senior Web / Graphic Designer (contract) AdVision eCommerce - Ontario March 2006 to June 2009 AdVision provides customized eCommerce Web Store development services for Light speed users, Worldwide.    Located primarily in the USA and Canada, AdVision is team of developers,  designers and programmers that have developed and supported 1000s of Light speed Web Stores, that are intuitive, easily navigated and instill a 'valued  added perception' of a company's products and services    • Lightspeed Webstore Customization  • API integration  • Setting up Payment gateways  • Building Apps & Features for WebStore  • LightSpeed e Com customization and Theme Development  • Customization Support & Third Party Integration    Web Designer / Developer (Contract)  Doctor Jack Kruse: Project  https://jackkruse.com    • Designed wireframes to improve the layout of the overall website.  • Created a new design which brought to their home page the quality of their work,  introduced the team and explored the variety of work they are capable of.  • Created a new batch of custom forms in order to cater to the diverse number of inquiries they faced.    Designed the landing page in such a fashion that the average turnover rate was  drastically increased  • Designed the landing page in such a fashion that the average turnover rate was  drastically increased.    Web Developer  The Unrefined: Project  https://theunrefined.com.au/    • Created, much needed, contemporary design wireframes, keeping new  functionalities in mind.  • Provided a design which brought to the forefront, the product that Digi Vision  was providing.  • Designed a multilayered menu and navigation that allowed ease of access to a great collection of  blogs and video conferences.  • Built the website on WordPress, as it was the best CMS to build a blog oriented  website. Web Designer / Developer / SEO (CONTRACT) Doctor Jack Kruse (https://jackkruse.com) • Designed wireframes to improve the layout of the overall website.   • Created a new design which brought to their home page the quality of their work,  introduced the   team and explored the variety of work they are capable of.   • Created a new batch of custom forms in order to cater to the diverse number of  inquiries they faced.  Designed the landing page in such a fashion that the average turnover rate was  drastically increased   • Designed the landing page in such a fashion that the average turnover rate was drastically increased.  • Conducted searches such as evaluating competitor websites to incorporate best  practice and create marketing strategy to ensure optimal results.  • Improved organic search results by increasing the search engine results page from  12 to number 2.  • Analyzed data to identify trends, generate reports and adjust campaigns as necessary  to produce the most optimal ROI. Web Developer (Project) The Unrefined (https://theunrefined.com.au) • Created, much needed, contemporary design wireframes, keeping new  functionalities in mind.   • Provided a design which brought to the forefront, the product that DigiVision  was providing.   • Designed a multilayered menu and navigation that allowed ease of access to a  great collection of  blogs and video conferences.   • Built the website on WordPress, as it was the best CMS to build a blog oriented  website. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Skills Wordpress (6 years), PHP (9 years), HTML 5 (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Illustrator (10+ years), Web Design (9 years), Joomla (6 years), JSON (9 years), JQuery (9 years), Linux (3 years), SEO (8 years), AWS (2 years), Laravel (4 years) Links http://www.mbilaal.com Additional Information Technical Skills:    Platforms: Centos, Ubuntu and Windows.  Virtualization: VM Ware, AWS (EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, ELB, Route53, S3, Cloud Front, SNS, RDS, IAM, Cloud Formation)  Scripting: Shell scripting (Bash), Python, Perl, Ruby  IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime, Visual Studio, IntelliJ, Notepad++, Dreamweaver.  Web Technologies: HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON,  Server Technologies: MVC, RESTful Services, XML, JSON  Source Code Mgmt.: Git, SVN, CVS  Continuous Integration/Build Tools: Jenkins, Ant, Maven  Configuration Management: Puppet, Chef.  Web/App Servers: Apache Tomcat 6.x, 7.x, WebLogic 8.1, 10.x, 11g,