System Architect/Software Developer System Architect/Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> System Architect/Software Developer - NuWave Solutions Gaithersburg, MD Senior Developer with strong Backend and Frontend experience spread out over 15 years on Enterprise systems and teams both big and small. Over 5+ years experience working with Node, React, Angular.js, Redux, MongoDB, ES2015, ES6, various build and deployment worlds.     10+ years as a backend developer, including designing a variety of API interfaces using current libraries such as Node.js, Express, Sails and a variety of frameworks utilizing a model approach for collections and resource interaction. Previous non-Nodejs driven backend development included Coldfusion, jQuery, CSS, Apache, Tomcat, Glassfish, Sql Server, Oracle.    Current Devops experience includes working with Webpack, Github, Nginx, Docker and automating the deployment process onto the cloud. AWS experience includes deploying environments via Cloud Scripts, architecting, building and maintaining various projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Architect/Software Developer NuWave Solutions January 2019 to Present Design/Built a isomorphic Node/Express & React/Redux Application  ? Designed Webpack driven build and developer runtime (webpack-dev-server), separating development & production configurations  ? Designed and built the Node/Express driven API code and functionality for all required endpoints.  ? Using Sequelize for ORM Modelingand providing common models for server-side controllers.  ? Designed and built client-side using React, Redux, MUI (Material-UI)  ? Organized application vs data state using Redux and associating with two prefixes (app, domain) making sure to keep logic separate between application session and data.  ? Maintained a MUI theme and overrides from a top level so components are able to define css related to themselves and reference the themes core palettes and root settings.  ? Designed and built custom React components for visualizations around various libraries, including, ChartJS (For event driven Charts) and Plotly (For read-only Charts)  ? Defined a common traces style guide for charts to enforce and maintain consistency of traces in all charts.  ? Quality control by managed process with Peer Reviews before merging into Production branch and Master. Senior Software Developer Broadsoft Corp/Cisco Corp - McLean, VA July 2016 to February 2019 React developer restructuring an existing React application  ? Restructured application to run concurrently with Node, Express backend server  ? Implemented oAuth authentication process in a NodeJS, Express backend  ? Restructured approach when using dev vs prod keys for application  ? Writing, adding performance and security focused middleware  ? Cleanly managing unauthorized access to API resources  ? Implementing passport.js for google auth  ? Added react-redux store library for improved state management  ? Using Webpack for build process    Senior software developer focused on Angular development on an Enterprise product application. with AngularJS on the Front end UI.  ? Continuous development on new features as well as bug management  ? Front end development with AngularJS application  ? Backend development includes working on backend API using Node and Sails  ? Interacting with Java microservices via Backend API interaction  ? Managing deployment process via Jenkins and Docker containers  ? Daily collaboration with remote team of developers  ? TDD development using Mocha, Chai & Karma  ? Using Webpack for build process Lead Developer Real Tech Solutions - Washington, DC December 2013 to June 2016 Full Stack developer role working with Node.js and focused on front-end JavaScript frameworks. Developed applications using Node.js, AngularJS, Bootstrap and MongoDB. Experienced using Bower, Grunt, Gulp and NPM to manage and package.    Managing systems via Amazon Web Services (AWS) using EC2 instances and all that entails (Elastic IPs, load balancing, Security Groups, and managing access keys)  I've modeled an improved infrastructure based on the Sails.js framework, running on Node.js. I then considered using NGINX as the next step. Senior Lead Application Developer APA - Washington, DC December 2011 to December 2013 Coldfusion developer / Front End Developer with AngularJS, Node.js experience  Daily tasks included sustainment work on existing Coldfusion driven search engine.    Senior developer created an online writing center based on Node.js and AngularJS.  Javascript libraries including Backbone.js, gApi(Google api), Socketstream, express.js and multiple other modules.    Relevant projects:  ? Created a custom service to handle Marklogic calls and responders on Node.js.js (server side).  ? Creating a mobile app boilerplate interface based on PhoneGap, Backbone.js and topcoat.  ? Using Amazon Web Services(Using EC2) providing a proof of concept for hosting a Node.js app in the cloud Lead Coldfusion Developer Real Tech Solutions - Washington, DC August 2009 to February 2011 As lead Coldfusion developer I was focused on the entire lifecycle of all projects.  One of my main projects involved developing a custom CMS portal completely updating our clients approach to project management.  My team was responsible for designing and developing various custom auction systems.  Skills I employed were Coldfusion 9, ORM, Ajax, jQuery, javascript and CSS.  Frameworks include: Fusebox 5, Coldspring, ModelGlue, CFWheels Containers" Tomcat, Railo, Glassfish  Well versed in SVN, release manager on a number of projects Jira and WiKi experience in Confluence.    Key Projects:  ? Designed and implemented Agenda Review System  Brought in to review an existing paper process and convert it to a web-based internet solution  The project required a workable database design in Sql Server and a framework using Coldfusion.  Assigned estimates based on our client requirements I gathered where I was given the task of completing the project under a tighter than normal deadline due to a past developers previous failed attempt.The final product was developed in Coldfusion 9 with Sql Server as the backend and Fusebox 5 as the framework.    ? Developed and Maintained secured Intranet Portal (NC4) (8/2010 - 1/2011)  Worked within a secured facility to maintain and build new application modules for a secured system. The majority of development was performed with Coldfusion 9.    ? Integrated new functionality on existing Internal Portal (PSI) (6/2010 - 8/2010)  Developed a new internal application for their existing Intranet portal.  Developed the new application in an OOP manner utilizing Ajax, Fusebox, Sql Server and maintaining all code in CFC's. Senior Developer Booz and Company January 2010 to June 2010 Focused on sustainment tasks for an existing Coldfusion application.  The application was driven by Coldfusion and an Oracle database.  Initial responsibilities involved working with another developer and then led to me taking over as lead developer on the project.  Daily direction was in part provided by our team lead as well as myself.  Daily work exposed me to Coldfusion, XML, CFCs, AJAX products and technology.  Balanced between working on new requirements as well as maintaining existing systems. Senior Coldfusion Developer AcqBusiness August 2009 to January 2010 where my role was in maintenance and new development.  Lead developer for a web development project for the Program Manager Acquisition Business (PM AcqBusiness) of the US Army, using Coldfusion, Citrix, and SQL databases. Web Developer/Maintenance Lead APA - Washington, DC January 2008 to August 2009 Initially brought on as a Coldfusion development resource and then advancing as the maintenance lead working with our client on a daily basis. Weekly tasks included monitoring of production and development systems, daily interaction with various clients and working on my own as well as a team of up to four developers. Senior Web Developer/Maintenance Lead HUD - Washington, DC December 2005 to January 2008 Team lead of Coldfusion developers supporting a Coldfusion, Java based web application.  ? Designed, developed and managed a team of four developers. Designed and implemented new functional requirements. Senior Web Developer SAIC/NIH - Bethesda, MD 2005 to December 2005 Developing an Intranet application to provide a resource for NIH grant research  Sole developer working with Oracle Database administrator to build out custom interface with Coldfusion 6.1 MX, XML, JavaScript.  Responsible for all development and direction of design.  Working under a three month deadline for the initial launch.  Design details include:  ? Implementing a JavaScript tree structure feed by XML, dynamically populated from Oracle.  ? Using Oracle stored procedures throughout project.  ? Created a JavaScript driven grid structure to display editable code  ? Used Coldfusion arrays to provide on-page text filtering capability  ? Implemented Oracle Full-text Search functionality Coldfusion Developer SNVC - Fairfax, VA 2005 to 2005 Team lead working with our Navy Client developing a flagship application to provide authentication via security badge cards and PKI CAC cards..  ? Create and implemented database schemas using Oracle 10g.  ? Developed in Coldfusion (coding included arrays, Stored procedures, custom tags)  ? SQL coding included cursors, stored procedures, MS server management  ? PDF creation on the Web.  ? PKI/PKE development Education Associate Skills Coldfusion, Git, Javascript, Node.js, Reactjs, Redux, Webpack, Jenkins, Solr, Svn, Angularjs, Solr, Marklogic, Mysql, Oracle, Devops, React, Angular, Jquery, Node Links http://amusto.github.io