Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer - VMD Corp Work Experience Senior Software Engineer VMD Corp December 2018 to Present Leading two CA ASP.NET projects (MVC and web forms) while moving towards CI/CD, GitLab, and Selenium/Automated testing. Senior Web Developer The Goal / Buchanan & Edwards / Department of State March 2018 to September 2018 Remote agile .NET MVC EF Azure development on a small team. Crafted (as the sole developer) a custom JS framework with optional plugins - distributed via NuGet, for use across projects/teams. Senior Web Application Developer CoStar Group November 2016 to March 2018 Redesigning an existing ASP.NET MVC website focusing on speed improvements and cleaner code. Implemented responsive design, led code reviews, assisted team members with their work. Senior Web Developer The Goal / The Carlyle Group March 2016 to September 2016 Redesigning an internal singe page application UI using DevExpress and AngularJS on a small team. Senior / Lead Web Developer Lockheed Martin September 2006 to February 2016 Redesigned multiple ASP.NET Web Forms sites (NQMP & MHS CQM), adding modern features. Completed development which met or exceeded all client expectations including zero security breaches detected over 8 years of daily attacks. Extensively mentored a junior web developer. Joined a second project in 2014 which utilizes ASP.NET MVC to serve the needs of multiple organizations. Acting as consultant and lead developer for this effort with a sizeable (10+ person) team. Significantly improved team code, transparency, morale, and efficiency. Senior Web Developer Optical Society of America (OSA) September 2005 to August 2006 Created, supported, and enhanced the OSA website which is pivotal to the existence of the corporation as it supplies products directly to customers. Worked exclusively with Dreamweaver MX to create and modify ColdFusion web pages. Side projects (such as the generation of XML metadata to enable Google to quickly index the new OSA journals, and automating the creation of journal table of contents) were performed on an as-needed basis. Program Analyst Transportation Security Administration September 2004 to June 2005 Developed custom VBA code to assist report creation for the Payroll tracking system at TSA. Mostly written in Microsoft Access forms, although macros were also designed in Excel and Outlook to enable TSA employees to quickly create and disseminate payroll reports. The Access forms reduced the manual process of data validation which typically required 1.5 weeks of effort by a three person team down to just 2 days of processing by those same individuals. Additionally, Excel reports and Outlook messages were automated using VBA as well. IT Consultant Sierra Systems Group Inc May 1998 to August 2004 Association of Trial Lawyers of America: Created ASP.NET web forms for the Association of Trial Lawyers of America's Internet Development and Integration Initiative. Specialized in the front-end development, setting team standards, and making reusable user controls.  Other clients: Claims Resolution Management Corporation, U.S. Dept. of Education, The Nature Conservancy, The Robert's Group, NCES Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science George Mason University 2000 Skills Ajax, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Angularjs, Bootstrap, Mvc, Ui, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, C#, Git, Html, Javascript, Json, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, jquery, Frameworks Additional Information Current Skills Skill Level Last Used/Experience  AngularJS Beginner Recently used / 1 year  ASP.NET MVC Intermediate Currently used / 4 years  ASP.NET Web Forms Expert Recently used / 8 years  Communication skills/Teamwork Expert Currently used / 20 years  CSS Frameworks (Bootstrap/Foundation) Expert Currently used / 6 years  DevExpress Beginner Recently used / 1 year  Entity Framework (Code-First) & LINQ Intermediate Currently used / 0.5 years  jQuery & AJAX (+JSON) Expert Currently used / 6 years  Kendo UI Intermediate Recently used / ~2 years  MS Visual Studio (VB and C#) & TFS/Git Expert Currently used / 20 years  Oracle (SQL/Tables/Views) Beginner Recently used / 1 year  Resharper Intermediate Recently used / 2 years  SQL Server (SQL/Procs/Triggers) Intermediate Currently used / 10 years  Web Development (ASP/HTML/JavaScript) Expert Currently used / 20 years