Applications Developer Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Applications Developer - VTech Solutions Bowie, MD Mid to Senior level Software Engineer with over 10 years of programming experience including RDMS database systems, .Net, Web, and GUI development. Demonstrated ability to work independently and/or directly with a team of software engineers to complete projects to timely meet specifications and deadlines. High expertise in determining customer needs and effectively translating those needs into software solutions. In-depth knowledge of operating system functions and techniques to optimize legacy code. Work Experience Applications Developer VTech Solutions - Washington, DC January 2019 to Present Contractor for the DC Lottery Board  Developed and upgraded various    Accomplishments:  • Upgraded Game Close and Prize Claim applications to Framework 4.6.1.  • Built new GameClose app by converting from winforms to WPF application.  • Replaced Crystal Reports with RLDC reporting in the APC Application.  • Developed MAC Form application using C# with SQL Server backend.  • Developed technical documentation and SOP's.  • Implemented new login module for the DC Lottery Website. Previous version returned password in an email. Passwords are now hashed using BCrypt.  • Developed application that pulled prize and winning numbers data from XML site on a schedule to be utilized by the marketing department.  • Worked with team at the main office to develop the ADA Compliance check application for licensing retailers for sports wagering.  • Appointed as the technical lead for the DC Lottery Content Management System and website.  Other Duties include:  Preparing weekly reports  Troubleshooting installation issues  Configuring and testing applications. Programmer/Analyst II Northrup Grumman - Washington, DC April 2016 to June 2018 Contractor for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission  Duties: (including, but not limited to)  • Edited and developed new SSIS packages, C# Coding, Stored Procedures;  • database script writing;  • Performed and participated in peer reviews and code reviews;  • Developed test plans for testing the applications.  • Successfully upgraded various C# loaders that were accessed utilizing stored procedures and SSIS packages.  • Worked on the SQL Server 2014 upgrade migration project.  • Successfully updated various Loaders  • Successfully built Staging and Datamart SSIS packages for the Form 40 loader  • Successfully updated and tested various loaders for the SQL Server 2014 upgrade project with new shared libraries.  • Developed stored procedure which replaced fifteen stored procedures to access and process fifteen SSIS packages. Web Developer Social & Scientific Systems - Silver Spring, MD February 2016 to April 2016 Backfill Contractor.  Supported web application development project. (left to accept more advanced position at Northrup Grumman) Sr. Web Developer IMark Group - Bowie, MD July 2014 to May 2015 Supported IMark Groups in building and upgrading web pages utilizing ASP.net, ASP Classic, VB.Net, JavaScript, jQuery. CSS, DevExpress controls and developing SQL queries for manipulating database.  • Successfully updated Annual Meeting and Showcase web pages utilizing webforms, Asp.net, and various other technologies.  • Successfully built Payout Distributions section and generated reports for these using Crystal Reports.  • Interacted with sales and accounting personnel for requirements gathering. Utilized these interactions to develop queries and make decisions on user input.  • Successfully updated Suppliers product capsule section Software Engineer Concept Plus LLC - Fairfax, VA March 2013 to April 2014 Worked with a team of three developers developing and enhancing the ACPMS Health Care Application utilizing C#, JavaScript, SQL Server 2012 and ASP.net webforms.  Duties: (including, but not limited to):  • Attended SCRUM meetings, editing, and enhancing stored procedures.  • Developed queries, created new tables as necessary for the ACPMS Healthcare database.  • Successfully built dashboard for the application utilizing Telerik Web Controls.  • Successfully built the Integration Transactions search engine.  • Assisted in the development of JavaScript code utilizing MirthConnect to process Healthcare EDI 837-I and 83-P Claims. Software Engineer APS Healthcare October 2012 to December 2012 Main Assignment: building the new APS Healthcare application  Duties included attending daily SCRUM meetings to check on the progress of development and developing software using C# with an SQL Server backend utilizing Entity Framework and assisting junior developers  • Successfully implemented Single sign on module for integration of .Net with Python  • Developed the Product Client portion of the application Sr. Web Engineer Apptis/Evolver - Woodlawn, MD May 2011 to October 2012 • Assisted and trained clients and technical staffs of Social Security Administration in understanding, designing, trouble-shooting and constructing client-server applications.  • Provided assistance and training with new application development within the SSA for SharePoint and various other applications. Trained and performed assistant to Government employees on issues of SSIS, Web Development, and SSIS packages.  • Team lead developer for the .Net project "WESS Management Console" Web Application developed in Asp.net, C# Framework 4.0, with an SQL Server 2005 Backend. Also utilized AJAX toolkit.  • Team lead developer for the .Net project "STAC sign in application". Web Application developed in Asp.net, C# Framework 4.0, with an SQL Server 2005/2008r Backend also utilized Section 508 compliance.  • Improved weekly and monthly contractor reporting.  • Easily built rapport and interactions with co-workers, clients, and management Programmer/Analyst TreCom Systems - Annapolis, MD 2009 to 2011 Contract employee with the Environmental Protection Agency assigned to the Chesapeake Bay. Duties include coding, debugging, testing and maintaining the Scenario Builder Application. Maintained the code by taking direction from senior programmers and making necessary changes to the code in an Agile/SCRUM environment. Attended meetings and met with clients in support of the Chesapeake Bay Program. Worked on the team to implement the web service for clients to ensure data submitted to the EPA was precise and accurate.  • Designed and built the User Interface for the New Version of Scenario Builder utilizing Asp.Net, Telerik UI controls  • Developed the rules engine for the Scenario Builder utilizing C#.  • Transformed scientific data for processing using SSIS packages. Developer OnSite3 - Arlington, VA September 2007 to August 2009 responsible for C# and VB.Net projects supporting OnSite's E3 application, utilizing all aspects of the software development lifecycle and the legacy DUKE System utilizing Winforms.  • Release Manager deploying applications and updates to Onsite3's E3 environments located in DC, Los Angeles, New York and Atlanta. Provided Support to users for Onsite3's eView application.  • Developed applications in VB.net and C# for support of the eView and E3 departments. Managed the Legacy DUKE System applications which utilized WinForms and the SQL Server database.  • Performed imaging of machines for use in the E3 system, and assisted in the testing process of bug fixes for the different components of the E3 system. Developed standard operating procedures for the Software development department.  • Maintained the E3 System by performing machine imaging on over 200 machines, verifying that they were in the correct environments for corporate and remote clients.  • Developed intranet website for other developers and support staff to easily find and download in-house applications built by developers  • Developed applications and performed database operations in support of OnSite's eView application.  • Developed the Standard Operating procedures and maintained documentation on activities for the Software Department.  • Set up user accounts and security for use of the E3 system.  • Successfully updated and deployed the .Net Framework 3.5 to upgrade all E3 environments.  • Developed website in ASP.Net with an SQL Server back end database which clients and users could download utilities that were developed by the Software Dept. in support of the E3 and DUKE systems. Programmer/Analyst Computer Sciences Corp - Alexandria, VA September 2005 to June 2007 Developer for the Civil/Environmental Group, developing application for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and developed a website for the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) utilizing vb.net and SQL Server.  • Worked on the database team that developed the GAP Analysis database  • Designed, developed and performed testing of the WaterSentinel Task Tracker database. Database later converted to Oracle data  • Designed, developed and performed testing of the EAD QA Task tracking database.  • Successfully performed maintenance on the Cryptosporium Database program  • Developed the "Ask an Expert" intranet website for The Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA Senior Nuclear Chemist Constellation Energy - Lusby, MD May 1991 to February 2005 • Provided management oversight to Operations and Heath Physics personnel during duties as shift chemist.  • Developed procedures used by chemistry personnel and reviewed and updated procedures generated by support departments that may have impacted or conflicted with chemistry procedures.  • LAN Administrator for Plant Chemistry Unit, Maintaining 14 desktop computers.  • Acted as the liaison between Plant Chemistry and Corporate IT. Provided technical expertise in the areas of Primary, Secondary, Radwaste, and Radiochemistry.  • Managed plant systems in the capacity as a Laboratory Manager.  System matter expert for the effluent database management system.    • Updated and maintained the system, validated data and performed follow up reviews to confirm results of government agency audits.  • Developed and maintained additional functionality for existing software, including testing and debugging applications.  System matter expert for the Gas Chromatography and the atomic absorption spectroscopy systems.  • Upgraded the gas chromatography system and integrated existing dionex software into the system, eliminating the need to purchase new software.  • Developed the "Lithium Manager Program" which calculates delithiation times of the reactor coolant system based on sample data. The program additionally calculated the lithium operating bands for the system and predicted the lithium build-rates and theoretical times for an out-of-specification condition. Significant improvement over the previous methods, which were done by hand calculations. Reduced out-of-spec incidents due to human error by 90%  • Developed the New "Technician toolbox", a program written in Visual Basic.Net, which was a major improvement over the previous version that was developed in-house. This program was used to calculate tank recirculation times, tank volumes, alpha radiation activity, tritium activity and efficiency calculations for the detectors on the ND9900 gamma spectroscopy radiation counting system. Program also performed various elapsed time calculations used in half-life calculations.  • Developed database application to inventory and track the use of ion exchange resins. Converted Excel Spreadsheets to Access databases. Developed database that tracked and computed corrosion product data. Education B.S. in Computer Information Systems Strayer University 2005 Skills Ado, Ado.net, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Oracle, Sql, C#, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Wcf, Oop, Vb.net, Visual sourcesafe, Xml, Ajax, Asp, Css Additional Information Skills:  C#/VB.Net WCF/ Web Services XMLSpy  ASP.Net MVC Windows Services Javascript/Ajax/JQuery  SQL Server 2008/2012/2014 Visual SourceSafe/Git/TFS/GitHub  Oracle LINQ  Entity Framework OOP  Crystal Reports / ReportViewer Agile/Scrum  ADO.Net CSS  XML/HTML/JSON Bootstrap