PHP Developer and Admin PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Admin PHP Developer and Admin - Life Lock, AZ Phoenix, AZ ? 11+ years of professional experience in the Industry with a developer, database designing.  ? Extensive experience in software solutions for Businesses and Enterprises using technologies PHP, PL/ SQL, SQL Server, LINUX, SSRS, SSIS, POWERBI, HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, DRUPAL, AJAX, CAKEPHP.  ? Exposure writing complex SQL Queries.  ? Well conversant in creation of database objects like tables, constraints, Views, Indexes, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages.  ? Involved in PL/SQL Programming.  ? Export and Import Database level or Schema level by using SQL Loader.  ? Good ability to quickly grasp and master new concepts and technologies.  ? Experience in Production Support on Linux Servers & MySQL & Apache & PHP application servers  ? Designed and developed Applications in all the major versions of the PHP5 and worked with XAMPP, WAMPP, and LAMPP environments.  ? Wrote module to import users and event content from old site into new Drupal 7 site.  ? Experienced in Drupal themes, modules and familiarity with the Drupal API and hook system.  ? Develop, test and implement cross-browser compatible Drupal themes using valid HTML/CSS  ? Familiarity with large multi-server Drupal environments, administration, and integration with various third- party sites with open APIs.  ? Extensive experience in database designing, reporting using MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server  ? Designing, building & supporting complex Drupal web applications for large consumer focused websites.  ? Experience in Model View Control (MVC) architecture based frameworks Code Igniter, YII, Smarty, ZEND and CakePHP.  ? Good experience in Model-View-Controller (MVC) based frameworks.  ? Extensive experience in installing, integrating, tuning, and troubleshooting Apache.  ? Comprehensive experience in full SDLC development in PHP, Objective Oriented frameworks, MVC architecture.  ? Extensive knowledge with XML and Google API, web services (REST, SOAP)  ? Experienced in implementing PayPal, Authorize.net, Alert Pay and CCAvenue.  ? Proficient at Search engine optimization using constantly evolving legitimate techniques to improve websites rankings among Search Engines.  ? Well versed with multiple version control tools like SVN, CVS, and TFS Source Control.  ? Experience in content management systems like Drupal, Joomla, and Word press to perfectly suit the client's requirements.  ? Experience in Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Design (OOD) and Object Oriented Programming (OOP) of multitier component based application.  ? UI/UX Developing and design, using JavaScript and CSS3 techniques, with the help of frameworks (jQuery)  ? Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with strong attention to detail  ? Strong team builder with excellent analytical and communication skills with capability to handle new technologies.  ? Front End Development, HTML5, HTML4 with responsive designs and adaptive for mobile.  ? Backend Development, generation of administration panels, and catalog administration. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PHP Developer and Admin Life Lock, AZ September 2018 to Present Responsibilities  ? Designing, developing, and testing high performance, scalable, highly available, and secure web-based solutions  ? Having good Understanding of Laravel, Zend and Symfony frameworks  ? Experience Provide inputs to testing strategy, configuration, deployment, hardware/software requirement etc.  ? Experience with Review plan and provide feedback on gaps, timeline and execution feasibility etc. as required in the project.  ? Experience in Participate in KT sessions conducted by customer/ other business teams and provide feedback on requirements.  ? Coordinated with business customers to gather business requirements, also interacted with other technical peers to derive technical requirements and delivered the BRD and TDD documents.  ? Project Planning, arrange of the customer project management tool, with times, deadlines and effort that would be required for each iteration, running on agile methodologies.  ? Software Architecture, using UML to create the software workflows, developing documentation, Use Cases, and Requirements that would line up the software needs, we help the customers to discover the business layer.  ? Designed and maintained Web forms and Banners PHP Coded, implemented upgrades, patches, code releases, and database changes  ? Data exchange with third party using PHP5/XML  ? Used PHP, HTML and JavaScript webpage coding integrated with MySQL using Apache HTTP.  ? Implementation of design patterns, strong OOA/OOD skills, Service Oriented Architecture, Web Services and XML Technologies.  ? Importing and exporting different formats of Data into HDFS, HBase and Hive from different RDBMS databases and vice-versa. Sr. PHP/SQL Developer Erie Insurance, PA June 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities  ? Created and Deployed complex, fully - featured websites using Drupal Content Management System.  ? Working on Drupal back-end Functionalities (Modules, API)  ? Build HTML & PHP Site Foundation  ? Used Angular JS including authoring complex directives, services, controllers, and filters.  ? Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript and Angular Js.  ? Implemented the Angular.js in creating animations based on CSS classes.  ? Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases JQUERY, AJAX and JSON.  ? Applied J-Query scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  ? Building automation reports for VSO Ops PM team using SSRS, Power Bi.  ? Module and theme development in Drupal 6 & 7  ? Provide best practices on PHP implementation code reviews of other resources.  ? Used various Drupal tools including Views and CCK and Mem cache also Developed Custom modules and Drupal templates.  ? Database Design, using tools like workbench to create the model EER and the database specification, using normalization techniques, reaching 3NF form for databases.  ? UI/UX Developing and design, using JavaScript and CSS3 techniques, with the help of frameworks (jQuery)  ? Front End Development, HTML5, HTML4 with responsive designs and adaptive for mobile.  ? Backend Development, generation of administration panels, and catalog administration.  ? Technology Advisor, given to the customer the most viable solution for his product or service, the benefits and downwards of each technology reviewed.  ? Software Engineering, using tools for coding, manuals and standards documents, using a progressive development (bottom-up), seeking for deliverables MVP (Most Viable Product), and the preparation for major versions.  ? Q&A Trough Requirements, Customer Histories, Use Cases & Wireframes    Environment: PHP, Windows Server, Drupal, Azure, Visual Studios, MS SQL, HTML4/5, CSS. Sr. PHP Developer Liberty Mutual, NH March 2012 to May 2016 Responsibilities  ? Built AJAX pages using PHP and created various asynchronous web applications  ? Assigned the responsibilities of troubleshooting problems with PHP and other web technologies  ? Demonstrated a solid understanding of best practices for Drupal and Web  ? Implemented and upgraded various Drupal modules  ? Designed enhancements to an existing Drupal system and implemented those designs.  ? Worked with cross browser compatibility issues, knowledge of 508 compliance  ? Utilized tools such as Git and Subversion  ? Worked on an open-source CMS Drupal to build website using Drupal 7  ? Worked heavily on Drupal CMS development and developed various custom modules  ? Made various contributions to Drupal.org    Environment: Wordpress, JQuery, Zend, PHP, CSS, MySQL, Google map api V3, Drupal7, Angular Js, SOAP, RES Application Developer Wells Fargo Bank, AZ July 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities  ? Remote: Ubuntu 12.04 LTS VM, SSH/Tunneling, PHP/PostgreSQL, Jasper Reports, Firebird PDO, GIT  ? Web application development, written in PHP/MySQL, jQuery and Bootstrap, using historical data manipulation  ? Developed a PHP/MySQL and jQuery content management system used in multiple real estate web applications  ? PHP/MySQL, HTML/CSS, Java Daemons for Google Maps API development  ? WordPress development with PHP/MySQL customizations  ? Database optimization and security  ? Java EE/Struts/Spring/Hibernate development for web applications  ? PERL, MySQL, CRON configuration for automated script execution  ? Hairmax / X-Charge / VeriFone Pin Pad 1000se system configuration and management  ? Remote IP camera system setup for monitoring and surveillance  ? Search Engine Optimization (SEO) & Search Engine Marketing (SEM)    Environment: Linux, PHP, LAMP, MySQL, WebServices, Web API, UI, Java, JavaScript, HTML, XML, CSS, Zend, JQuery, Apache. Web / PhP Developer JP morgan Chase, NJ January 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities  ? As Lead Developer, edited, coded, developed and edited Front End & Back End of a new exclusive Wordpress web site for a client: Nasal Ease Site (Under AFG Companies)  ? Designated Web Content Specialist for the product.  ? Responsible for implementing timely, high-quality text and HTML5/CSS3 & incorporate Responsive Design techniques in the web content for the New Nasal Ease Site  ? Experience in development with Agile Management methods  ? Wrote various PHP scripts in the header, footer, multiple contact pages, etc.    Environment: Wordpress, JQuery, Zend, PHP, CSS, MySQL, Google map api V3, Drupal7, Angular Js, SOAP, RE. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills:    Client Side Scripting Language: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (jQuery, OOP), XML Server Side Scripting Language: PHP, AJAX, Java, C  Web Servers: LAMP, WAMP, XAMPP Database: MySQL  Frameworks / CMS: Magento, Liferay, Drupal, ZEND (PHP), WordPress Application Servers: Apache Web Server, WAMP, LAMP  WEB Application: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON and AJAX CMS: Magento, Liferay, Drupal    Operating Systems: Windows, Linux (Red Hat, Ubuntu) IDE: Adobe Dreamweaver, Eclipse and phpMyAdmin Search: Solr v4.0