Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Web Developer - Self Employed Staten Island, NY Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Self Employed August 2018 to Present • Create dynamic web applications using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  • Created JavaScript Based games  • Used NodeJS to create a fictional YelpCamp page that contains user logins and authentication  • Build a Blog app that uses posts requests and forms  • Created a Fictional photo gallery that takes images and fits them perfectly into a grid. Certified Nursing Assistant Eger Health Care and Rehabilitation Center August 2009 to Present • Collaborated with interdisciplinary healthcare teams to provide high-quality support to patients.  • Established relationships with patients, caregivers and healthcare professionals to promote  patients' personal care plan goal achievement.  • Followed and promoted protocols and procedures to ensure effectiveness, efficiency, and safety.  • Optimized daily workflow to boost patient outcomes and accomplish organizational  objectives.  • Took advantage of opportunities for continuing education, quality assurance and performance improvement activities. Education High school or equivalent Skills Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, SCRIPTING, HTML5, HTML, Front End, Jquery Links http://www.justinwhite.tech https://www.linkedIn.com/juswhite814 https://www.github.com/juswhite814 Certifications/Licenses UDEMY January 2018 to May 2018 • Created a blog application from scratch using Express, MongoDB and Semantic UI    • Created static HTML and CSS portfolio sites and landing pages    • Wrote web apps with full authentication    • Used Bootstrap to create good-looking, responsive layouts    • Used JavaScript variables, conditionals, loops, functions, arrays, and objects    • Manipulated the DOM using jQuery    • Wrote JavaScript-based browser games    • Wrote a real application using everything learned in the course ES6 for Everyone - Master Package January 2018 to May 2018 Additional Information Skills    Javascript    HTML5/CSS3    Node    MongoDB    ES6    React    Bootstrap 4    jQuery    ExpressJS    GIT    Junior Web developer able to build a Web presence from the ground up. Skilled at writing well-designed, testable and efficient code using current best practices in Web development. Fast learner, hard worker and team player who is proficient in an array of scripting languages and multimedia Web tools. An energetic and imaginative young web developer who is able to work alongside other talented IT professionals in creating websites to the very highest standards. An ambitious type who wants to get noticed, and has the drive and massive energy needed to really make a difference to a project. Currently seeking an entry level position with an exciting company that wants to attract talented people.