SQL Developer SQL <span class="hl">Developer</span> SQL Developer - LaKater LLC Pompano Beach, FL Experience in developing and troubleshooting T-SQL, RPG, RPG-ILE, RPGIV, COBOL, VB.NET, C# .NET.  Database ETL and Report developer. Successfully use my technical and professional experience while always evolving into new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Developer LaKater LLC - Fort Lauderdale, FL January 2019 to Present SQL Developer responsible for creating SQL stored procedures, functions and triggers.    • Developed and Optimized Stored Procedures and Functions using T-SQL  • Participated in several projects  • Gathered business requirements and converted it into SQL stored procedures for database specific projects AS/400 Developer/ Programmer Envision - Plantation, FL May 2013 to September 2018 Designed and developed multiples projects for iSeries using RPG, RPG-ILE, SDA, CL, DDS, using embedded SQL  • Assisted in the software development, maintenance, and improvement of functions for all existing RPG and COBOL applications  • Develop and implement ETL processes to integrate the AS/400, RPG-ILE. Using External Stored Procedures.  • Developed multiple maintenance utilities using C# .NET and SQL and Help day-day operational troubleshooting.  • Debug and troubleshooting issues along with coding and testing services according of instructions of Senior management in RPG-ILE, Cobol, and C# with Visual Studio AS/400 Developer/ Programmer Credomatic of Florida - Miami, FL September 2006 to May 2012 • Design and development systems for iSeries using RPG, RPG-ILE, SDA, CL, and SQL  • Test and troubleshoot all programs, analyze, debug and resolve usability issues while developing iSeries in RPG-ILE.  • Collaborate with development and coding changes  • Correct testing-identified problems or recommend actions for their resolution  • Develop data models for applications, views or related database structures, designing and prototyping solutions for the company on VB.NET to improve customer services Web Developer ColorVision - Caracas, VE May 2002 to July 2005 Computer Management  • Analyze user needs to determine technical requirements, software development, troubleshooting and maintenance of the company website using .NET Framework in C#  • Developed ASP.NET Web Applications in C#  • Providing technical assistance to users, documentation of problems and their solutions, design and develop databases, and stored procedures with MS-SQL server 2005 for web applications  • Installations, configurations and technical support while adhering to different applications used in the company's standard Systems Analyst Credicard - Caracas, VE August 2001 to April 2002 • Programming in an OS/400 environment developing in RPG/400, COBOL, SDA.  • Analyzing needs and products requirements to create a design of the user's requirements as well as the corresponding technical support of the previous applications installed under this environment Telecommunications Specialist Telefonica International - Miami, FL May 2000 to August 2001 • Analysis and coordination of personnel in the telecommunication requirements project.  • Programming of activities and testing of telecommunication equipment.  • Follow-up and maintenance of system performance.  • Preparation of department reports, training users, development of procedures for the installation of hardware and software.  • Configuration and technical support of Video Conference Picture-Tel equipment  • Development of the application that administers the company's call center; to supply the users with better service; developed in Visual Basic and SQL Server. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Equivalence Instituto Universitario Nuevas Profesiones - Caracas, VE 1992 Skills SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2008, SQL, STORED PROCEDURES, RPG, RPG/400, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, WCF, PHP, VB.NET, VISUAL BASIC, VISUAL BASIC 6, VISUAL BASIC 6.0, XML, COBOL, SHAREPOINT, T-SQL, ETL, Sql Database, Ssis, TSQL, SSRS, DB2, Scrum (2 years), Agile (2 years), DBA, PL SQL, Data Warehouse