Web Developer / Information Technology Specialist I <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Information Technology Specialist I Experienced Full Stack Developer Rancho Cordova, CA Results driven, energetic and highly reliable hands-on professional with extensive experience in IT & full stack software / web development with the ability to work on own initiative or as part of a team who will always say YES to new challenges no matter how difficult Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer / Information Technology Specialist I Department Of Consumer Affairs - Sacramento, CA May 2019 to Present • Develop and maintain complex web applications and work on client requests for changes by developing and writing complex program specifications to address DCA client needs. Facilitate system and user acceptance testing, develop solutions for implementation and prepare the required documentation for the final solution using SharePoint & Web information technology systems including: JavaScript, jQuery, Crystal Reports, SQL, SQL Server, MySQL, SharePoint Developer, C#, ASP.net and web applications HTML, PHP, Adobe Forms, ListServ, Visual Studio, Server Side Includes, WordPress, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), Adobe Acrobat Professional and Adobe DreamWeaver. Design, convert, and implement complex Internet and Intranet web pages. Ensure web content meets ADA (Section 508) requirements.  • DCA SharePoint & Web information technology system activities including workload management of client requests. Monitor systems to ensure services are available, address interruptions in services and coordinate with appropriate OIS teams to restore the system. Attend and represent the Department along with other state agencies in work group sessions to develop state web portals in State Web Template. Review all staff and Board/Bureau webmaster developed changes with DCA’s SharePoint and Web information technology systems to ensure that the established departmental technology standards are maintained. Verify that staff changes have been thoroughly tested prior to their implementation in production.  • Provide high level technical expertise to the DCA Web user group and facilitate consensus decision making to standardize technology usage whenever possible across the department.  • Perform Business Analysts functions, meeting with the clients to gather business needs and translate their needs into Business Requirements for programmers. Assist in developing test scripts. Participate in all phases of the Systems Development Life Cycle; perform Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions to obtain the clients business requirements. Analyze business requirements to participate in coding, testing and implementation of the application. Analyze, define and maintain best practices and ensure these standards and best practices are adhered to. Analyze, evaluate or write technical processes and procedures. Analyze Hardware and Software Proposals. Research for technology solutions for the clients to meet their business needs. Provide status reports on project tasks and system development for management. Provide management presentations on various status and projects. Perform other duties as assigned. Sr. Full Stack Developer / Lead Application Programmer Etisalat June 2011 to January 2019 • Develop complex software programs, with clear and succinct code documentation, that meet the written and oral functional requirements provided by customer.  • Lead a team of developers - create and assign work packages and provide technical direction to them. Manage the work to its completion meeting the quality standards.  • Perform database design and create scripts to create and modify database objects.  • Manage and Fix defects in the home grown applications or third party software using Tech Stack: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, C#, ASP.Net, .NET, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, Visual Basic, Joomla, Sharepoint, SMPP, Google Maps API, FusionCharts, BootStrap, Linux, Shell Scripting, Visual Studio  • Follow the SDLC and change management processes adopted by the organization. Participate in change management meetings to provide impact assessment of requested change  • Perform production support activities such as monitor system processes, evaluate the outcome of system processes, work through system exceptions, and create processes to monitor and report on the overall system health.  • Communicate complex information effectively to the team and consistently deliver high-quality services to clients on schedule Database Administrator & Web Developer AUB Bank November 2010 to June 2011 • Implementation and Migration of the data from the old banking system (Eurika) to the new Oracle FlexCube Core Banking System  • Monitoring banking operations using Oracle SQL Developer & Toad, Maintenance and Administration of the Oracle Flex Cube database and performing EOD (end of the day) operations, taking regular backups and make sure backups are valid  • Redesigned their website and developed a workflow to automate the memo approval process using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS, C#, SQL Server  • Maintenance & Administration of Oracle Business Intelligence and provide support to end users by creating,modifying reports, user management etc Web Developer and Designer Etisalat November 2008 to November 2010 • Etisalat Web Site Redesign and Development in Flash, ActionScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Photoshop, Fireworks, PHP & MySQL  • Development of new applications in .NET, Visual Studio, Visual Basic, VB.NET, ASP.NET, PHP, MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server  • Prepared documentations, presentations, user manuals, and provided technical design, entity relationship diagram, data flow diagram regarding requirement for any new application system.  • Install, create, maintain, monitor performance & backup Databases regularly to support current/new applications and perform Recovery if needed  • Administration & Maintenance of Etisalat website, Intranet and other in-house applications  • Supported management and end users anything Web Related & Performed any other official duties assigned by the superior(s) Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Kardan University June 2011 to March 2015 TOEFL IBT Certified in English Language ETS - Princeton, NJ 2011 to 2013 Associate in Engineering Forward Degree College January 2006 to January 2008 High school Senior Cambridge Public School January 1996 to January 2006 Skills Big Data, Software Development, C#, Java, C, ASP, Computer Science, MVC, Javascript, Photoshop, HTML, CSS, XML, PHP, Ajax, Oracle, Oracle Business Intelligence, Oracle Flex Cube, Oracle SQL Developer, SQL, Microsoft Office, Microsoft SQL Server, Web Design, Web Development, Application Development, Database Development, Database Administration, Graphic Design, SEO, E-Commerce, Internet Marketing, Mobile Marketing, Video Editing, Payment Processing, Project Management, Crystal Reports, Android, ADO, Visual Studio, Vb.Net, TFS, Management, Web Services, Apache, IIS, Adobe Illustrator, MySQL, Sharepoint, FusionCharts, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON, T-Sql, SSIS, PL/SQL, Dreamweaver, NET, Github, Google Analytics, Google Adwords, Wordpress, Joomla, Drupal, Google Maps API, AWS, Agile, Waterfall, Scrum, ITIL, Regular Expressions, REST API, Telerik Awards Commitment & Loyalty Award for completing 5 years of service with Etisalat 2017-11 Best Employee Award 2011-07 Living the Value Award - Innovation 2017-11 Star Teams - 2016 Award for Central Sites Database 2017-01 Cherry on the Top Award for Operational Efficiency 2015-07 Appreciation Letters from every managers I have worked with Employee of the Year 2010-07 First Symposium on Innovations in Science & Technology 2015-05 Won first place in the mentioned symposium at Kardan University Won grand prize - AngelHack Hackathon 2017-05 Also successfully completed their 4 months HACKcelerator program Successfully graduated from Founder Institute - FI.co 2016 Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate January 2010 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Sharepoint Developer January 2014 to Present GNU Linux System Administration May 2009 Project Management Professional (PMP) Course April 2016 Information System Security & Ethical Hacking Course April 2009 Power of taking ownership course April 2018 Strategic Planning Skills December 2011 Problem Solving & Decision Making April 2012 Leadership & Management Training February 2009 Effective Motivational Technique October 2013