Sr. UI developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. UI developer - Volkswagen Atlanta, GA • UI/ Web Developer with 9+ years of professional experience in Web Designing and development using Web Technologies.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using in HTML5, CSS3, javaScript, DOM, Ajax, JSON and javaScript frameworks like jQuery, Angular JS 1.X & Angular 5, Backbone JS, React JS, Ember JS, Node JS, Ext JS, Responsive design with Bootstrap that follows W3C web standards and are browser compatible.  • Technical expertise in complete software development life cycle (SDLC) process that includes Architecting, Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries (jQuery) and developing Rich Internet Applications RIA.  • Experience in Cross browser compatibility testing and intellectual challenges in User Experience (UX)  • Extensively used JavaScript for client-side validation and used Bootstrap for customization of web application.  • Extensive experience with AngularJS Framework including authoring complex directives, services, controllers and filters, working with animations, data binding, routing and states.  • Proficient in using JavaScript testing frameworks Jasmine, QUnit and test runner Karma.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS and Flux for SPA development.  • Expertise in working with Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Proficient in using higher level style syntaxes, LESS, SCSS and SASS for advanced CSS features.  • Strong Experience in dealing with CSS Animations, Backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding and CSS Box Model.  • Professional in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of Future Pages using iRise Visualization.  • Proficient with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer for testing applications.  • Worked on different APIs and RESTful Web Services for web Application.  • Expertise in configuring version controls like SVN, GIT.  • Developed back end interfaces using PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, Functions, Anonymous PL/SQL programs, Cursor Management, Exception Handling and triggers.  • Strong knowledge of application development concepts and practices including Agile methodologies, Object Oriented Design & Programming, requirements definition, use cases, business rules, and change management.  • Experience in working on agile methodologies and participated actively in daily scrum meetings.  • Ability to write clearly, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development. Work Experience Sr. UI developer Volkswagen - Atlanta, GA February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible in design and development of web applications using the latest technologies like Angular JS, HTML5 and CSS3 also involved in Unit testing.  • Extensive usage of BOOTSTRAP and SASS for responsive web design.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Worked on different changed procedures of Angular 1.x to Angular 2.0 such as, @Route, Router Outlet, router-link etc.  • Created Angular 2 components implemented Interpolation, Input variables, Bootstrapping, NgFor, NgIf, Router Outlet, binding the click event, Component decorator, binding to the hidden property.  • Coded Angular JS controllers and directives for application functionality and filters for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Worked on Angular 2.0 by consuming RESTful web services & used Angular 2.0 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.  • Development of Client-Side Validation techniques using Web RTC and jQuery and Angular JavaScript.  • Utilized the Dependency Injection mechanism for simpler way of managing the controllers and scopes.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with API's, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Implemented XML parsing & JSON parsing for data handling on different application.  • Regular interaction of RESTful API design calls to populate the UI on the app using GET, PUT, POST and DELETE.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Worked on writing code for integrating merchant API to get all the details about coupons and merchant ID to database.  • Developed API back ends using Node.js to allocate access to data in MYSQL.  • Used date-format and moment packages in Node JS to save the timestamp in database converting into UTC.  • Debugged the website using Chrome Developer's tools and hardcoded the API into script for getting the information about merchants using Node JS.  • Good knowledge of debugging JavaScript and html code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome Developer tools.  • Performed testing using Jasmine, Karma and Protractor by following Test Driven Development (TTD) approach.  • Used GitHub, version control system as a source repository to organize the code base.  Environment: HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, ES6, AngularJS 1.x/2.0, Node JS, JSON, SQL, Jasmine, Protractor, Source tree UI / Web Developer Arvest Bank - Lowell, AR May 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the overall layout design that meet cross-device compatibility using Bootstrap, color scheme of the website using HTML and CSS. Also Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Built rich prototypes and applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, Angular JS, Bootstrap.  • Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, table, Pseudo elements and CSS3 Transitions.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript and hand coding of HTML5, XHTML, and CSS.  • Developed mobile cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing Angular JS, JavaScript API.  • Developed Object Oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client side validations using jQuery.  • Familiar in writing Custom Directives in AngularJS, making use of modules and Filters objects according to the application requirement.  • Familiar with concepts of Directives, Data-Binding and Dependency Injection in Angular JS  • Experienced in Model View Controller (MVC) frameworks such as Angular JS for our prototype - working model.  • Worked on Angular JS which combines web applications with Model View Controller capability to make development and testing of code efficient.  • Experience on working with complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Used Ajax, XML, Http request to post chat messages and to periodically check the server for new messages and update your chat window.  • Used Source tree for the purpose of version control and source code sharing.  • Effectively created and consumed Web services at various stages of the development like Insertion of data into database, fetching data from the database.  • Worked with agile environment and worked efficiently to meet the deadlines.  Environment: HTML5/HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, RWD, Angular JS, XML, JSON, Restful API, Eclipse, Jasmine, Protractor. UI/ Web Developer Voya Financial - Windsor, CT August 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • As a part of Enrollment team, actively participated in the team work for the successful launch of Voya Retirement Plans. http://VoyaRetirementPlans.com/EnrollmentCenter  • Developed the UI with extensive use of Backbone.js framework that helped to organize the code.  • Worked on a responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design and media queries using dust template.  • Worked on jQuery Light box for creating image and video galleries.  • Used JavaScript for adding functionality to the existing application (calendar, tooltips, hiding elements, etc.).  • Strong proficiency in JavaScript, including DOM manipulation and the JavaScript object model.  • Ability to understand business requirements and translate them into technical requirements  • Used SASS styling which is an extension of CSS3  • Implemented Marionette which is a composite application library for Backbone.js to simplify the large-scale JavaScript applications.  • Worked on time to time updates as per the business.  • Followed Version One for tracking processes and streamlining agile planning.  • Participate in the team on agile development cycle.  • Worked on Cross Browser Testing and Debugging.  • Involved in the Software Life Cycle phases like AGILE and estimating the timelines for projects.  • Experience working on testing tools like Firebug, Chrome or safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar    Environment: Dust Template, Backbone.JS, JavaScript, HTML, SASS, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, D3 JS, Responsive design, Grunt, Bower, Node.js, NPM and Web Services. UI Developer / Backbone.js Soft Sol - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2010 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development phases of Agile Software Development and also building Web application development for client and server side using Backbone.js and Node.js.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, Backbone.js, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Performed the Synchronous/Asynchronous file operations and created web server with the help of Express Using Node.js and Implemented Back-end API using Node.js with the help of Express Framework.  • Used Backgrid.js which supports backbone.js to render the server-side data and display and also worked on CSS pre-processors such as SASS.  • Used Underscore.js, Mustache.js, Handlebar.js for templating in most of the code while used Backbone.js as an MVC framework, HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery with MySQL.  • Implemented Backbone CRUD operations (Create, Read, Update and Delete) and Paginator for pagination for Tables.  • Implemented JavaScript module patterns using asynchronous script loading and rich features of ECMA 5 (strict mode, getters and setters, JSON parsing) to provide more functionality to the JavaScript code.  • Created Restful web services and Created Event Emitters using Node.js and Created dynamic webpages making AJAX Calls, using the XML Http Request Object.  • Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards and created the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Worked on GIT for source code management and also fixed bugs and provided support services for the application using Jasmine.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, jQuery, Backbone.js, Node.js, Express, backgrid.js, underscore.js, mustache.js, handlebars.js, MySQL, jasmine, mocha.js, Jenkins, sass, grunt.js, SEO, ES-5, Jira, git-hub Jr. UI developer Versant Technologies PVT Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2009 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, System study and designing of the project.  • Developed front-end screens with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP's. Extensively did client-side validations using JavaScript and developed the required Servlets.  • As a developer, coordinated with onsite team and client in understanding the business process and requirement understanding.  • Participated in daily meeting for enhancing the features for the portal.  • Participated in Code review and Quality Assurance.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Used jQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Developed front end UI using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX and Spring, Hibernate for back-end development.  • Used JDBC, application server provided transaction API for accessing data from the Oracle the using standard statements.  • Preparation and review of Unit Test Plan, Unit Testing, Test Results review and other quality related work.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, DOM, DHTML, Oracle, Eclipse, SQL, Windows and MS  Office. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), jQuery (9 years), JSON (8 years), CSS (7 years) Links http://VoyaRetirementPlans.com/EnrollmentCenter Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C#, Core Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL  Web Technologies  HTML5, CSS3, XML, DHTML, JavaScript Object Oriented Programming, Web Standards (XHTML, CSS), SASS & LESS CSS extension language, JSON, AJAX, JavaScript.    JavaScript Frameworks & Technologies  jQuery, AngularJS 1.x & 2.0, Bootstrap, Node JS, Backbone JS, React JS, Express JS, Ember JS, Kendo JS, Require JS, Knockout JS, Ext JS, D3.js.    Database Oracle, MYSQL, SQL Server, DB2.  Web Servers Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0/8, WebLogic Application Server, IBM Web Sphere, HTTP web server  IDE Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor, Web Storm, Notepad ++, Visual Studio, Adobe Dreamweaver.  Testing Jasmine, Karma, QUnit.  Tools Jira, Jenkins, Chrome Developer Tools, Firebug, webpack.  Version Control Bit Bucket, Git, CVS, SVN, source tree    Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac OS