Application / Senior Web Developer Application / Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application / Senior Web Developer Merritt Island, FL Work Experience Application / Senior Web Developer Comprehensive Health Services September 2018 to August 2019 • Develop, upgrade and maintain web applications for Drug Exams. C# .Net MVC with Knockout.js as well as Redis, Hangfire and Twilio  • Developed HL7 Parser Application responsible for moving patient records from HL7 files to the SQL database. Created using C# windows service project with Top Shelf, Nlog, and Dapper  • Multi-layer Architecture: Web, API, Business Object, Data and Models  • SQL Server 2016 Database, Tables, Stored Procedures and Queries. Application / Developer Davita Labs October 2015 to September 2018 • Large scale operation that uses Oracle as the main database with SQL databases that are used to interface with analyzers. The use of one internal website was created for the labs operations that has five windows services running the backbone all created in C#, JavaScript, Ajax, and WCF services. These services consist of moving ASTM data files into the database, tracking the patient information along with the test information and then sending the results back to the various clinics. The system was brought online last year to replace a mainframe.  • Day to day I worked on creating new content, constant streamlining of code and procedures, and debugging and troubleshooting any issue on any of the services or the website. Application / Developer Radixx International July 2015 to August 2015 • Short term project on large object oriented application to add capability of users having a package option when choosing a flight. Primary technologies used: ASP.net, C#, VB.net, Web Services, JavaScript, AJAX, MVC, AngularJS, Oracle.  • Project was slated for a 3 month timeline and was completed early. Application / Developer Hewlett Packard January 2003 to February 2015 • Current project is a large scale intranet web application using Visual Studio 2005 to 2012 and SQL 2008. Lead developer and founder of this application which was credited in the Wall Street Journal. This applications primary use was to combine multiple databases for data validation of customer hardware issues and track trending and improve quality assurance. Primary technologies used are ASP.net, C#, VB.net, ADO.net, Ajax, JavaScript, and Telerik controls. Installed and administrated Team Foundation Server 2010 - 2012 for source control and project planning. Implemented Agile Scrum for project life cycle.  • Developed an internal search engine to search the customer data by name. Used Visual Studio 2005 and then upgraded code to 2010. Written in ASP.net, C#, Ajax, Telerik, JavaScript, and SQL for the back end along with connecting to multiple databases to pull in information. Sub Version was used for source control and then changed to Team Foundation Studio 2010.  • Created a large scale inventory program to track team hardware usage for all labs in the Houston Engineering Teams. Written in ASP.net, C#, VB.net, JavaScript, Ajax and SQL for the database.  • Designed and developed a senior level reporting application. Written in ASP.net, C# and SQL, Ajax, Chart Controls, JavaScript, for the database.  • Created application to monitor multiple server downtime which allowed users to email teams involved to proactively report planned outages or assessment of unplanned outages. Written in ASP.net, VB.net, JavaScript, Ajax, and SQL for the database.  • Implemented and designed an Expense Warranty application for tracking. Written in ASP.net, VB.net, Ajax, JavaScript, Chart Control, and SQL for the database.  • Actively tested and debugged applications by writing functions and subroutines as well as testing load balance on the sites by running stress tests for checking the amount of bandwidth.  • Project manager for all Engineering Division Applications. Directly responsible for establishing timelines and ensuring the team met deadlines for each cycle of the projects through an Agile Scrum Process. As this concept was new to the team, instituted set up and training of Microsoft Team Foundation Server and Microsoft Share Point for the development team.  • Provided advanced server troubleshooting for Fortune 500 customers. Currently supporting Windows 2000/2003/2008, Linux Red hat, network issues, Intel and MAD server hardware, and multiple server applications for these customers.  • Responsible for aggressively resolving issues by reproducing same issues in a lab environment, and then relating the findings to the customer on a daily basis.  • Liaised with national and international support teams, including Development, sales teams, and coordinated 3rd Party vendors for troubleshooting and providing timely and accurate resolution to customer issues.  • Personally responsible for over $250 million dollars in contracts saved by troubleshooting and direct contact with the customer while significant sales hung in the balance. Frontline Support Customer Service October 1998 to January 2000 • Responsible for defining the processes/procedures that the consulting team used to provide support. The Consultant position was a newly formed job function which needed structure. Said procedures are still used for training materials with new hire Consultants.  • Responsible for giving fast and accurate support to the internal support associates for issues dealing with the server and add on hardware. This was done through face to face interaction and phone support.  • Intimate understanding of the support tools at hand for giving the correct answers that would keep the customer calls accurate.  • Consistently scored the highest peer to peer ratings by showing a positive and accessible attitude.  • Problem-solved hardware issues with fault-tolerant hard drives. Education None in Computer Information Systems DeVry Institute of Technology - Atlanta, GA October 1995 to October 1997 Skills Ado, Ado.net, Oracle, Sql, C#, Html, Javascript, Subversion, Vb.net, Visio, Xml, Ajax, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Sharepoint, Team foundation server, Knockout, Mvc, Enterprise architect Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Experienced in: MVC, ASP.net, C#, Knockout.js, VB.net, Linq, HTML, ADO.net, CSS, XML, Ajax, Telerik, JavaScript  IDEs: Visual Studios 2003 - 2017  Databases: SQL, Oracle  Source Control: Subversion, Team Foundation Server 2012 - Agile Scrum  Other: HL7, ASTM, Photoshop, Xara Web Designer 7 - 9, Office, SharePoint, Visio, Enterprise Architect 8