Owner, Web Designer/ Developer Owner, <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Technology, Marketing, Management, Finance Expert with an MBA Jenison, MI I am a motivated and personable business professional with multiple college degrees, including an MBA, with a successful track record of management, leadership, and productivity. I have a thorough education in human resources, accounting, finance, marketing, and management.    I am looking to make a long-term commitment to a company and become a valuable asset in any position I attain. I am able to work flexible hours, work attentively and diligently, and help the company meet and exceed its goals. Work Experience Owner, Web Designer/ Developer Michigan Web Pros - Grand Rapids, MI August 2008 to Present Built, created, and designed websites using the latest web standards and technologies, emphasizing user-friendliness and SEO. Provided marketing and promotional advertisements for local businesses for websites. Provided support to website users and administrators. Systems Developer The Schwan Food Company - Marshall, MN May 2008 to January 2009 Developed and designed the Schwan Food Company's intranet, serving 18,000 employees world-wide, and 18 private and public facing websites. Designed and developed custom SharePoint 2007 sites. Provided support to managers needing customized websites. Advanced Technical Support Lead Verizon Wireless/Alltel Communications - Mankato, MN August 2006 to May 2008 Managed 12 top-tier employees. Conducted team meetings about company news, telephony and wireless news, and on-call procedures. Conducted performance coaching and reviews. Handled escalated calls from angry customers. Provided support to customers using wireless broadband internet. Provided support to customers using VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol). Provided support to customers using cellular phones, data kits, and hosted exchange. Continuously maintained and updated documentation/instructional guides of functionality for most recent technology (software, phones, networking). Education Master of Business Administration MINNESOTA SCHOOL OF BUSINESS - Minneapolis, MN January 2011 Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration and Finance BETHANY LUTHERAN COLLEGE - Mankato, MN December 2006 Skills Finance, Marketing, Human Resources, Web Design, Management, Information Technology, Accounting, and Development. Links http://www.thomaskessel.com Awards Summa Cum Laude 2011-12 MBA Program - Minnesota School of Business Certifications/Licenses Certified Windows Mobile Specialist January 2006 to Present Driver's License Additional Information Performance  Graduated with Highest Honors (4.0/4.0 GPA) and #1 ranked out of all MBA graduates from Minnesota School of Business.    Other Skills  Expert proficiency in all modern computing operating systems, office suites, hardware, software and encryption.