Web Software Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Junior Web Software Developer / Student Watertown, MA Junior Web Developer/Student seeking entry-level position or internship opportunity.  Experience developing, supporting and administering websites, portals and associated databases in a corporate environment. I find a zest and satisfaction to being engrossed in the building and completion of a project along with learning and integrating new technologies.  Currently studying for CompTIA Security+ Certification exam. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Software Developer Northrop Grumman - Andover, MA 2006 to 2012 Develop, maintain, and update eTRACs web based time tracking application along with its SQL Server database. The application tracked the billable time of subcontractors on multiple Northrop Grumman contracts with Department of Defense (DOD) agencies and branches of the armed forces.  Develop, maintain, and update multiple DOD contract portals and their related SQL Server databases. Each portal is used to track leads, RFQs, and RFPs for various DOD contracts.  Assist network administrator with maintenance of web and database servers utilizing Windows Server 2000, IIS, and Active Directory. Account Manager / Webmaster / Network Administrator Partnership Resources LLC - Bedford, MA 2003 to 2006 Brokered and managed commercial print projects between clients and local print manufacturers.  Updated and enhanced company website.  Configured updated and maintained Apple based wireless network. Web Developer Northrop Grumman Information Technology - Lexington, MA 2001 to 2003 Develop portals, web applications, and related SQL Server databases for U.S. Armed Forces and DOD contracts.  Assist network administrator with maintenance of web and database servers utilizing Windows Server 2000, IIS, and Active Directory.    M. Capodanno  Page 2 of 2 Webmaster and Support/Training Specialist Windowbook Software Inc - Cambridge, MA 2001 to 2001 Maintain, update, and improve website features and content.  Provide online technical support and update customer support knowledgebase.  Develop pre-recorded webcast training modules for company products. Education Associate in Information Systems/Technology: December 2019 Mass Bay Community College 2017 to Present Certificate in Web Development Massachusetts Bay Community College 2017 to Present Courses and Labs towards MCTS certifications in Web Development New Horizons Computer Learning Centers - Waltham, MA January 2012 to May 2012 Fellowship in Web Development Mass Software and Internet Council - Boston, MA January 2001 to August 2001 Certificate in Client Server and Web Development Clark University 2000 Skills HTML5, Javascript, PHP, CSS, Python, Linux, SQL, Front End