Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Bellingham, WA A creative Front End Web Developer with strong design skills who is passionate about all things interactive. I am a developer who is always thinking "what's next?" while trying to perfect what is now. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer FAA AJM-25 - Pomona, NJ September 2015 to November 2018 Responsibilities  As the Web Developer I am responsible for maintaining the SAPT website creating interactive user interfaces and applications using .PHP, GIT, Cesium, XML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery and HTML to enhance the user experience. I also meet with and plan any future development for these websites with the stakeholders to ensure proper deliverable projects are successfully met on time. Computer Scientist Web Developer FAA - Human Factors Division - Pomona, NJ October 2012 to September 2015 As the Web Developer I am responsible for maintaining the Human Factors branch & division, atmseminar.org, icrat.org & atcquarterly.org websites creating interactive user interfaces and applications using .ASP, C# .net, Coldfusion, SQL, XML, CSS2, CSS3, jQuery and HTML/HTML5 to enhance the user experience. I also meet with and plan any future development for these websites with the stakeholders to ensure proper deliverables are successfully met on time. Flash & Web Developer Disc Makers Inc - Pennsauken, NJ April 2010 to May 2012 As the Flash Developer I am responsible for creating Flash, interactive user interfaces and applications using Actionscript 3 OOP, Papervision3D, .ASP, XML, CSS2, CSS3, jQuery and HTML/HTML5 to enhance the user experience. Freelance Flash Designer / Developer The Creative Group - Philadelphia, PA November 2009 to April 2010 This freelance position is responsible for development of Flash websites and presentations using Flash, Flash Actionscript 2 & 3 (OOP), XML, CSS and HTML. Web Developer Masterminds Advertising Egg Harbor Township January 2009 to November 2009 As the Web Developer I was responsible for all things interactive and the development of web banners, web banner production, best practices, Facebook Fan pages, casual games, micro and full Flash web sites. Technology used on a daily basis includes: Flash, OOP, AS2 & AS3, XML, Javascript, CSS and HTML. Freelance Web Developer Masterminds Advertising Egg Harbor Township June 2008 to January 2009 As the freelance Web Developer I was responsible for all things interactive and the development of web banners, web banner production and Flash animation. Technology used on a daily basis includes: Flash, OOP, AS2 & AS3, XML, Javascript, CSS and HTML. Multimedia Developer Lockheed Martin - Moorestown, NJ July 2008 to October 2008 (3 month contract position)  As the Lead Flash Developer I was responsible for interactive development of an LMS application using SCORM 1.2 compliant Flash Actionscript 3(OOP) for the Department of Homeland Security. I designed the GUI, wrote AS3 code for the application and packaged the SCORM content. This position required a govt. security background check. BOSS The BOSS Group (Agency) - Philadelphia, PA April 2008 to July 2008 Freelance Flash Designer/ Developer  This freelance position is responsible for development of Flash websites and presentations using Flash, Flash Actionscript 2 & 3 (OOP), XML, CSS and HTML. Interactive Specialist Comcast Interactive Media - Philadelphia, PA July 2006 to March 2008 The Interactive Specialist is responsible for interactive development of microsites, landing pages, sponsored skins for Comcast's The Fan and banner advertisements using FLEX, Flash, Flash Actionscript 2 & 3(OOP), XML, CSS and HTML.  This position also includes site production design and redesign, application design, development using Actionscript coding and rich-media technology techniques.    I started with Comcast Interactive Media as a Flash Developer programming bug fixes, updates and enhancements to various projects like The Fan and gameinvasion.net in Actionscript 2 OOP programming. New Media Designer/ Developer Smith O'keefe and Associates - Somers Point, NJ July 2002 to July 2005 Developed websites and Flash applications for various clients. Head Mac technical support for Xserve and 10 Mac workstations handling network support, day-to-day tech support issues and daily backup services. Web Engineer Avidlearn.com - Cherry Hill, NJ February 2001 to May 2001 Created online CBT courseware for small to mid-level businesses using Flash while following SCORM guidelines. I was Lead Flash programmer / project organizer and worked with a team of programmers to deliver their product. Content Developer G-VOX Inc - Philadelphia, PA December 1999 to December 2000 I was part of a team responsible for the content of interactive projects for web and CD rom presentations. My focus was Flash animation and programming but also included sound editing, project development and Director production. I was often called upon to provide input on solutions for projects and programming. Freelance Head UX/UI Developer & Designer www.thespikeranch.com January 1996 to December 1999 When I have free time or am not gainfully employed, I design and develop various web sites, web applications,  iOS & Android Applications using the latest Adobe Creative Suite. I have a varied skill set outlined below that  is constantly improving. Education Gloucester County College - Sewell, NJ November 2002 Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (6 years), Actionscript (6 years), MySQL (4 years), Git (3 years), Video Editing (6 years), Audio Editing (10+ years), Wordpress, PHP, Jquery, HTML5, Front End, Front-End, CSS3, .NET (2 years) Military Service Branch: Army Reserve Service Country: United States Rank: PVT 2 July 1984 to July 1990 Awards Human Factors Top Dog 2014-06 Top Dog Award: Dan Johnson of the Human Factors Branch and Gerry Creighton from Hi-Tec Systems received the in-House Top Dog Award from the Human Factors Branch for developing and operating the conference website for the 6th International Conference on Research in Air Transportation (ICRAT). The conference, held the week of May 26, 2014 at the Istanbul Technical University in Istanbul, Turkey, is a joint venture between FAA, NASA, EuroControl, and other international aviation and air traffic management organizations. The website allowed organizers to manage the submission, review, and acceptance process for conference papers. The site also provided information, registration, and other functions for attendees, organizers, and guest speakers. Johnson and Creighton produced a high-quality, useful, and usable site under tight schedule and cost pressures. The site has received numerous compliments and has international visibility. Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Security Clearance - public trust July 2006 to Present I hold a public trust security clearance.