Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Developer Frisco, TX • 6+ years OO designing and programing with Java, Spring framework.  • 3+ years Web Application Development with Angular 4/6 framework with NgModule, CommonModule, RouterModule, HttpClientModule, Injectable services, Observable from RxJS, Angular Material, Angular CLI tool, npm package manager.  • 3+ years Server RESTful service by NodeJS with Express, MongoDB.  • Over 5 years to build web applications and services with HTML5 and JavaScript (ES6), CSS3/SASS/SCSS, Bootstrap 3, ReactJS, jQuery and Ajax.  • Expert in Microsoft SQL server and MongoDB  • Experience in Jira, Jenkins, GitHub. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Web Developer AT&T Service Inc November 2008 to June 2019 • Built SPA (Single Page Application) of requests with Angular framework.  • Created reactive forms of request with RxJS.  • Set and changed views with Bootstrap 3, SASS/SCSS/CSS3 and NgClass, NgStyle to support desktop and mobile.  • Used Angular HttpClient to send GET/POST request to fetch data from server using RESTful services.  • Used Angular Material, @Input, @Output to build customized components, input and select elements.  • Worked with karma and Jasmine supporting debug and test.    • Developed backend system with NodeJS.  • Worked with Express.js for middleware configurations and development of RESTful web services.  • With monk and MongDB to support NodeJS server with database access.    • With Java and Sprint framework to build database access API.    • Built Mule API in Anypoint Platform and Anypoint Studio. Test with Postman.    • Involved in Jira/Agile process for the project management and issue tracking.  • Used Jenkins for build automation.  • Maintained the code using GitHub for source code management and version control.    • Designed and implemented dynamic Web content with HTML/HTML5.  • Created Object-Oriented classes, responsive, interactive application with JavaScript (ES6).  • Used Bootstrap to build grids, layouts and components. Used Bootstrap component like panels, dropdown menus, navigation bars, inputs, alerts and modals.  • With jQuery library to simplify coding, event handling, animating and Ajax interactions.    • Created database in MS SQL Server for web application. Optimized queries, implemented stored procedures, and normalized data in SQL Server.    • Created web applications with CFML and reusable Customer tags in ColdFusion.  • Built ColdFusion components (CFC) to handle services and database access.  • Developed reports and exported in PDF and Excel formats. Applications Developer AT&T Mobility Inc May 2003 to November 2008 • Developed Java application using Spring IoC, Core module, AOP and POJO's in Eclipse to collect, decode, analyze and debug data files from Nortel, Nokia, Ericsson and other network switches.  • Designed and developed user interface of Scan tools to load, search and transform network data files including Spring forms, Spring controllers, JSP, HTML, CSS and shell script in HP UNIX and Solaris for testing and debug.  • Developed and maintained the DATA GARAGE that provide the storage and backup all data files for AT&T mobility.  • Created standalone FTP GUI and tools for development and test with the UNIX shell scripts and Perl.  • Maintained the Oracle database and IBM Informix. Migration from Informix to Oracle Database. Created SQL queries and reports. Applications Developer SBC Service Inc December 2000 to May 2003 • Maintained and developed Java web application of IAF platform and coded extension functions.    • Developed Java service API of data communication with company-wide customer service interface.  • Coded the billing application with Java programming language.  • Maintained oracle database, IBM Informix. Developed application queries and support the database upgrade. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Oklahoma - Norman, OK