Analytical Specialist Analytical Specialist Analytical Specialist - JPMORGAN CHASE Grove City, OH Multi-talented professional seamlessly managing diverse business requirements as a recognized foundational expert for a broad portfolio of applications and projects. Specializes in application delivery as well as project management, successfully coordinating requirements, delivery, and continued run. Reputable as a respected liaison between marketing and technology divisions. Work Experience Analytical Specialist JPMORGAN CHASE - Columbus, OH June 2018 to Present • Technical Lead: Lead Specialist for Digital Wealth Platform helping to define analytical requirements for 10-15 Agile teams. This includes provide directions for all Analytical criteria through out various projects.  • Business Lead: Lead Specialist for internal analytics tagging and data mapping solutions. This includes working with various resources to develop and maintain a ‘home-grown’ solution to customize data-mapping.   • Subject Matter Expert: Provides overview and coordination for implementation of standardize tagging technologies for third party vendors on public facing websites.  • Business Lead: Lead Specialist for mobile application, including providing direction to development and QA analysts.  • Delivery Lead: Coordinates with both marketing and technology to help further improve analytical data and help to resolve numerous data-quality issues.  • Delivery Lead: Coordinating effort for Adobe Analytics upgrade and deployment across all company properties. Business Analyst II ANTHEM INSURANCE - Columbus, OH January 2018 to June 2018 Business Lead: Involved in multiple large scaled projects coordinating mainframe systems to modern web- based applications. This involved working with over a hundred individuals to define testing and fall-back  requirements.  • Defined requirements for Customer SalesForce application for internal/external use.  • Delivery Lead: Specialist for certificate generation application for Life Insurance products. Specialist, Customer Insights and Analytics/People Leader NATIONWIDE INSURANCE - Columbus, OH September 2012 to December 2017 for IT Agile Team  Demonstrated flexibility by rotating among various positions such as the following:  • Business Lead: Spearheaded multiple Rapid-Alignment sessions for major projects, cementing  architectural clarity in relation to analytics including financial and bank.  • Requirements Lead: Advanced the design and introduction of 1K+ analytical efforts to compile project  requirements, directly collaborating with various teams. Introduced Ensighten Manage Tool and Google  Analytics to help meet the comprehensive analytical needs of the entire enterprise.  • Analytics Specialist: Created Enterprise analytical technologies for various business members throughout Nationwide Business Enterprise, this included desktop and mobile applications.  • Application Owner: Slashed time to production from three months to four weeks as the owner of the Ensighten Manage tool. Consulted knowledgeably about technology and business requisites to synchronize  resources on major projects. Defined business process for and co-managed IT teams.  Grove City, OH 43123 • 614-859-2175 • anthony@anselmo.com • LinkedIn  • Project Manager: Executed a two-year project to integrate Google Analytics with Ensighten Manage and Activate applications, teaming with internal/external vendors.  • Analytical Lead: Cut a business request backlog and equipped IT staff with manageable workloads and paces by transitioning the business to a build/run methodology for analytical tagging through business  process development.  • Data Analyst: Worked with business to help provide analytical reporting for strategic business direction  within Google Analytics and Tableau. IT Coordinator NATURE'S ONE - Lewis Center, OH January 2011 to August 2012 Overhauled the company's eCommerce site using the Magento application for web and mobile orders as Project  Lead, directly teaming with third-party vendors to help provide seem-less integrations of ePayments. Delivered  responsive and timely IT support to users from training and problem resolution to server maintenance as the leader of a four-person team.  • Designed and built an external commercial site and a corporate Intranet, migrating sites to updated content  management systems via Magento and WordPress.  • Introduced DEACOM ERP to corporate infrastructure supporting and working with third-party vendor to integrate with corporate website to warehouse. Senior Systems Analyst - SharePoint/WebTrends CARDINAL HEALTH - Dublin, OH June 2008 to January 2011 Performed server maintenance and website/replication configuration as part of SharePoint administration for internal and external sites. Coordinated search and server support along with software maintenance  encompassing farm support and central administration, addressing issues with offline servers and applications.  • Orchestrated application training, profile setup, and report scheduling for clients as WebTrends  Administrator.  • Created and updated web form applications to transmit information to Clarify application, expediting  processing of customer technology requests and help desk tickets. Interactive Marketing Developer FRANK GATES SERVICE COMPANY INC - Dublin, OH June 2006 to June 2008 Conferred with marketing and IT divisions as a collaborative liaison driving compliance with IT standards and government requisites. Helped engineer software upgrades as the Lead Goldmine CRM Administrator.  • Revamped corporate Intranet (Classic ASP/SQL) to improve user interface experiences, including by offering a staff web application enabling smooth updates to Intranet pages, an electronic newsletter, and  company phone directories. Web Developer EMERSON - Mansfield, OH November 2002 to June 2006 Web Developer DIVINE TOWER INTERNATIONAL - Columbus, OH November 2001 to April 2002 Web Developer MEGA SOLUTIONS, Columbus/North Olmstead, OH August 2000 to October 2001 Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Visual Communications in Advertising and Graphic Design Columbus College of Art and Design - Columbus, OH Skills JIRA (1 year), Google Analytics (5 years), Analy (10+ years), Adobe (10+ years), Webtrends (10+ years), Ensighten (7 years), Project Management (10+ years), Web Analytics/Reporting (10+ years), User Interface/Design (10+ years), Web Systems Architecture (10+ years), Problem Resolution (10+ years), Data Governance (10+ years), Privacy Management (10+ years), Website Development (10+ years), Interface Design (10+ years), Process Efficiency (10+ years), Solution Deployment (10+ years), Agile Process (10+ years), Rapid Alignment (10+ years), Systems Analysis (10+ years), Business Requirements (10+ years), Solution Scoping (10+ years), Systems Support (10+ years), Process Improvement (10+ years), Team Leadership (10+ years), System Integration (10+ years), Vendor Relations (10+ years), System Overhaul (10+ years)