Sr. Software Developer Sr. Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - ePharmaSolutions Alexandria, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Developer ePharmaSolutions - Plymouth, PA September 2011 to Present • Design and development of a highly scalable application development framework utilizing service oriented architecture (SOA) and enterprise service bus (ESB).    • Design and development of Continuous integration and deployment framework utilizing PowerShell, Bamboo, Octopus    • Design and development of Clinical Trial Portal (CTP) – The CTP includes a suite of modular-based applications that can be quickly configured at the enterprise, study, and site level - winner of the Bio-IT World Annual Award for Best Clinical Trial Technology.     • Design and development of User Management Application (UMA) – authentication, authorization, role services, user provisioning, user deduping and linking, integration with MS data quality services and SSO with ping federate     • Various client integration projects, data migration and reporting utilizing SSIS, SSRS Consultant NextDocs Corporation - King of Prussia, PA September 2009 to September 2011 Designed and developed various quality and document management modules for the NextDocs Compliance Platform using SP2007/10 including Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), Corrective and Preventive Action (CAPA), Promotional Materials Management (PMM), Electronic Trial Master File (eTMF) systems.    Tools and Technologies: SharePoint 2007/10, Visual Studio 08/10, SharePoint Designer 07/10, ASP.NET 2.0/3.5/4.0, C#.NET, InfoPath 07/10, Nintex Workflows 07/10, CoSign, Adlib Web Developer Pliner Solutions - Willow Grove, PA March 2009 to August 2009 Developed candidate selection application for Wills Eye, employee evaluation system for Orthovita, helpdesk application for Pliner Solutions, created www.vitoss.com, enhanced www.wuorientalart.com, added localization Support for www.printmaking-materials.com/es and development of various console apps for internal use.    Tools and Technologies: Visual Studio 08, ASP.NET 2.0/3.5, C#.NET, XML, JavaScript, X/HTML, CSS Application Developer Africom Technologies January 2005 to April 2008 Addis Ababa, Ethiopia    • Development of various Web Portals including one for an IT Marketing Company    • Document Management and Archiving Application for Research Publications  This Web application was developed for a social research organization located in Addis Ababa. It was deployed on the company intranet and researchers had easy access to thousands of research publications     • Urban Land Information System (ULIS)  Federal government application for spatial data management and graphical representation of population density and infrastructure per capita information as well as natural resources distribution. Education MSc. in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA January 2011 Bsc. in Electrical Engineering Arbaminch University September 2004 Additional Information • 10+ years of professional experience developing web and enterprise applications using Microsoft technologies.    • 7 years of SharePoint 10/13 development experience working on quality management solutions in the Health Care Industry.    • Experience in all phases of the SDLC, specializing in Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Development.    • Experience working with a global team of engineers using SCRUM for Agile development.    • Passionate about assisting sales teams and product management organization (PMO) in seeking new business opportunities.