Web Designer <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer Web Designer New York, NY 17 years’ experience in Web Design and Development. Professional knowledge of Adobe Creative Suite. Specialized in Front End Web Design, and creating landing pages, banner ads, promotional emails, and Flash animation. Highly skilled in photo retouching, image manipulation, logo creation, and creating high end digital and vector graphics. Advanced knowledge of video and sound editing using various programs. Extremely creative, motivated, punctual, reliable, well organized, very responsible and always friendly. Strong interpersonal skills. Team player, problem solver, and critical thinker. Exceptional at multi-tasking. Can cope well with long hours and tight deadlines. Always looking for a new and interesting challenge. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer Fergus O'Daly Associates - New York, NY May 2008 to December 2014 Worked on websites for large corporate clients in a diverse range of industries including food, pharmaceutical, cosmetic, fashion, online magazine and real estate. Clients included IBM, IEEE Spectrum, Welch’s, The Insight Works, CIT Group, Tonic, and Coty - including all Coty fragrance, cosmetics, skin and body care brands. Web Designer and Programmer Ambassador Internet Promotions - New York, NY April 2007 to April 2008 Worked directly with CIO and COO Founders of one of the world’s leading Internet search engine marketing and online ad publishing companies. Mirrored client websites for Ad tracking purposes. Added tracking for every incoming call, email, page visit and button click. Flash Web Designer Fergus O’Daly Associates - New York, NY February 2005 to March 2007 Created all Flash applications for websites in development. Worked directly with clients and gave presentations. Maintained all Flash websites. Flash Developer Bright House Networks - Time Warner Road Runner Cable - Maitland, FL August 2004 to February 2005 Single-handedly created the Bright House Networks Flash interactive web application introducing their Digital Phone, Cable and Internet services. My designs for Bright House Networks were used in the production of print and promotional items such as mouse pads, mugs, writing pads, T-shirts, posters and other print production and in-store promotional items. Freelance - FPS PC Game Developer 1995 - Present 24 years of experience in all aspects of FPS PC game development. Worked with countless game editing programs and programming languages. Specialized in 3D level design (mapping) and mission scripting. Expert editing experience with more than 30 of the most popular FPS PC games. Released hundreds of levels (maps), missions, mission scripts, texture packs, sound packs and other custom game content for public download. Consistently received great ratings, reviews and feedback. Gave game development instruction to other game developers. Worked with and learned from some of the best game developers in the industry. Education Certification in Advanced Web Design New York University - New York, NY Certification in Advanced Flash and ActionScript New York University - New York, NY - New York, NY Programming and Digital Arts (Specialized training) Suffolk Community College - Brentwood, NY Skills Adobe Photoshop (10+ years), Adobe Dreamweaver (10+ years), Adobe Illustrator (10+ years), Adobe Flash (10+ years), Adobe InDesign (10+ years), Adobe Premiere Pro (3 years), Adobe Audition (3 years), Video Editing (10+ years), Sound Editing (10+ years), Microsoft Word (10+ years), Microsoft PowerPoint (10+ years), Microsoft Excel (10+ years), HTML, CSS, ActionScript, Adapting to New Tech, Computer Technician, IT Specialist (10+ years), PHP Links http://linkedin.com/in/fergusodaly Certifications/Licenses Driver's License