Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer- Bisig Impact Group Louisville, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer Bisig Impact Group - Louisville, KY April 2018 to Present • Actively manage all sites within Bisig's portfolio.  ? Communicate statuses though Slack and Trello.  ? Design websites by creating wireframes, building sitemaps, and modeling.  ? Assist with back end coding, server maintenance, and CMS updates. Owner/Graphic + Web Designer Emmykaye Creative, LLC - Louisville, KY June 2015 to Present Prospect clients through networking and social media marketing.  ? Created websites using front end languages or CMSs such as WordPress.  ? Establish branding standards for clients through color theory and logo  design.  ? Maintain web standards through conventions and user experience design. Graphic Designer Signarama - Louisville, KY June 2017 to April 2018 customer service, project  ? Create design for corporate and individual clients using Illustrator, management  Photoshop, and Flexi Design.  ? Use templates to input pertinent information for production.  ? Increased empathetic communication between sales and production.  ? Assist finishing department with completing orders. Increase departmente efficiency by 40% by implimenting cross-training and increased template usage    through email, phone, and in-person contact. Visual Communications Specialist Fastsigns - Louisville, KY February 2016 to June 2017 Fastsigns, Louisville, KY - Visual Communication Specialist  students who are of the first of Apr 2016 - June 2017 their family to graduate.  ? Managed projects and planned deadlines using Google Calendar.  ? Communicated between sales, production, and clients.  ? Maintained knowledge of substrates, knowing proper application, and permitting regulations  ? Maintained long-term relationships with clients and vendors.  ? Utilized design programs to prep files for printing. Education Master's in Computer Engineering and Computer Science University of Louisville - Louisville, KY December 2018 to May 2020 Bachelor's in Studio Art University Of Louisville - Louisville, KY August 2012 to May 2015 Skills html, php, javascript, Website, Photoshop, Wordpress, Web Design Links http://emmykaye.com