Front-end Wordpress Developer Front-end Wordpress <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front-end Wordpress Developer - Freeform Agency Princeton, NJ A self-starter and technology enthusiast. Always looking to stay ahead of the curve, actively keeps up with the  latest technology trends and social outlets.  Senior level professional with a proven career progression in IT, Web technology and wireless industries.  Outstanding leadership and communication skills combined with a unique combination of creative, innovative,  interpersonal and analytical abilities. Strong management experience in all phases of project development from  needs analysis and design specifications to development, training and roll-out. Diverse industry work experience  including pharmaceutical, financial, banking, insurance, music, entertainment, publishing, real estate, consumer  products and academic institutions.  CMS: Wordpress; Multisite/Genesis Framework/Buddypress, Joomla, Drupal, MS Sharepoint,    Ecommerce: WooCommerce, Shopify, BigCommerce, Zen Cart, Paypal, Stripe    Reporting & Analysis: Google Analytics, Google Tag Manager, Asana Project Management    Web software: Adobe CS: Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Indesign, MS office suite    Email & Forms: MailChimp, Gravity Forms, Infusionsoft, Eventbrite    Language & Admin Tools:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, CPanel, PHPMyAdmin/MySQL, FTP Tools Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front-end Wordpress Developer Freeform Agency April 2018 to Present Wordpress website development  o Fisher Container Company merged with PPC Container. I was responsible for setting up the hosting, firewall, ssl, converting all data from two websites and created the new custom template from PSD. Correspondence with upper management. www.ppcflex.com  o Provide consultation for two websites to update their sites to the latest technologies. Projects in  progress. Front-end Wordpress Developer mBolden March 2017 to Present Wordpress website development  ? Run new chapter website training meetings  ? Involved in the conversion of old womeninwireless.org site to create a new and responsive custom  template.  ? Involved in the conversion from womeninwireless.org to weareembolden.org Front-end Wordpress Developer My Virtual Solution April 2004 to Present Wordpress Website design and CMS development using PHP. Consultant to local small business strategizing  ways to gain exposure and increase traffic.  ? Custom Wordpress Theme development   ? Web design & development  ? Design business pages in Facebook, Google+, Pinterest and Twitter and integration into websites.  ? SEO / SEM Services  ? Design Landing and sales pages  ? Content curation strategies  ? IDX Integration for Real Estate Clients: Month-to-month Retainer maintenance contracting services  ? Performing website analysis with personalized website and SEO recommendations  ? Research keywords and optimize websites primarily using Yoast's WordPress SEO plugin  ? Customizing themes using the Genesis Framework, ThemeForest and other Premium Themes Web Designer & Developer Princeton University - Chemistry Dept January 2014 to December 2016 Work closely with department administration and web/communications staff to analyze requirements,  define tasks and scope of effort to ensure development is aligned with business logic and end-user needs.  ? Meet and collaborate with client groups (faculty, postdocs, grad students, staff) to assess needs and goals,  time frame, and design aesthetic.  ? Provide guidance to department manager on strategies to maintain overall design, future website direction,  and use of latest website technologies.  ? Maintain and develop 40+ custom websites and applications; research, test and recommend new web  technologies. Build and provide technical maintenance for faculty research group, registration,  administration and other internal departmental WordPress websites. Web Designer & Developer Bristol-Myers Squibb May 2008 to June 2009 Collaborated and worked with the BMS Multimedia Team in the revamp of (www.bms.com).    ? Worked with the Associate Director and Site Stakeholders to determine content requirements  ? Assisted in the overall site structure  ? Designed and converted over 1000 pages to MS Sharepoint framework utilizing HTML, CSS, Photoshop  for a consistent BMS brand look and feel.  ? Designed over 60 Flash Banners consistent with the BMS brand look and feel.  ? Through work with stakeholders, design & technology teams, helped to organize the streamlining of the site.  ? Assisted in proactively assembling the components of the successful relaunch of bms.com worked in a timely, efficient and effective.  ? Successfully launched BMS due to web technologies, project and site management experience which helped to improve existing processes and aided in the overall success of the project. Education BA in Management Information Systems Rochester Institute of Technology Skills UI, Front End, Javascript, Front-End Links http://www.myvirtualsolution.com http://www.linkedin.com/in/joycevdb