Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Developer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Web Developer SMMC August 2018 to August 2019 Managed independently all technical aspects of the company.  Oversaw third-party content integration and migration project involving architecture, design, implementation, and testing of integrated web applications on aggressive timeline.  Successful project was completed on time and under budget.  Developed wordpress websites and Web applications, encompassing design, coding, testing, and maintenance.  Coding of custom Wordpress theme and template files using HTML, CSS, PHP, and Bootstrap 3 framework.  Use of custom post type, custom field type, and jQuery. Web Graphic/ Designer / Developer DirectAgents Inc May 2010 to July 2018 Helped manage the workflow of both internal and extgernal client projects.  Coded of small websites, landing pages and HTML emails.  Organized digital assets and otbain new stock assets online.  Maintained and distribute assets and style guides as needed.  Edited HTML, images and email content within an existing framework such as a blog, CMS or email tool.  Helped develop and deploy test environments, backups, and redundancy.  Helped develop and maintain PHP / MySQL / C# .NET / SQL Server 2005  micro sites and large CMS sites with Wordpress, Drupal.  Provided some basic Actionscript development for banners and interactive content.  Taught team members new technologies and promote its adoption. Freelancer Metro Homes Properties February 2010 to November 2010 as a Web Developer / Designer  Created from scratch the entire Front-End and Back-End part of their website.  Worked on corporate collateral design work such as brochures, envelope and business  card, pocket folders etc.  Established with co-worker the design department and made sure to have the right  software to do internal work more effieciently.  Used MVC methodology for the back-end part. Media Intern NYIT - New York Institute of Technology August 2008 to June 2009 Re-designed and developed the Communication Department's internal website.  Updated faculties bios and built on CMS platform an option to allow faculties to update their own projects/work at NYIT.  Taught faculty members within the department on how to update and edit their  own personal pages.  Arranged and taught communication art students 1 time per week on how to use  Took videos/photos from faculties and campus to update the site on a regular basis.  Advised IT department of NYIT on how to create and update their future NYIT  site based on the CMS platform software ExpressionEngine. Interactive Media Designer / Developer IconNicholson August 2008 to June 2009 Managed competing deadlines on multiple web and flash projects to exceed  client expectations.  Collaborated with lead developer to maintain client websites and projects.  Created and developed mock-ups for presentation to diverse clients.  Implemented dynamic flash modules to interact with database.  Worked on Valspar's project called "My Notebook"(Built self-running postseason  guide, designed interface, created flash mock-ups and web graphics for the Valspar's website. Education Master in Fine Arts in Computer Graphics in Fine Arts New York Institute of Technology September 2007 to May 2010 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Missouri State Univeristy August 2003 to August 2006 Skills Api, C#, Html, Javascript, Reactjs, Php, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Xml, Mysql, Cms, Actionscript, Ajax, Asp, Css, Angularjs, Soap, Java, Flash Links http://www.alperswork.com Additional Information SKILLSET    Web Programming Design CMS  CREATE SMART THINGS HTML, XHTML, CSS Photoshop Wordpress  JavaScript, Ajax Illustrator Drupal  C#, Java, XML InDesign Joomla  Alper Dilmen SOAP & REST API Flash ExpressionEngine  MULTIMEDIA DESIGNER/ DEVELOPER  Flash & Actionscript 2.0/3.0 Word / Pages Magento  ald183s@gmail.com PHP, ASP, Ruby on Rails Powerpoint / Keynote Shopify  www.alperswork.com MySQL, Linux Opencart  ReactJS & AngularJS    Video/Motion Graphics Audio  After Effects Adobe Soundbooth  Final Cut Pro WaveLab  DVD Studio Chescore  iMovie Cakewalk