NET Developer NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> NET Developer - Hawaiian Airlines Honolulu, HI • 13+ years of professional experience in software design, development, testing, maintenance.  • Experienced in developing the business solutions based on SDLC methodologies like Waterfall and Agile.  • Proficient in using Visual Studio IDE (2003/2005/2008/2010/2012/2013)  • Expert in designing and developing the solutions that are loosely coupled in layers  • Extensive experience in Object Oriented Programming (oops) and Event driven programming models  • Expertise in developing applications using different platforms including ADO.Net, ASP.Net, Web forms, MVC, MVP, Web API, AJAX, JSON, ASMX Web services, WCF (Windows Communication Foundation), HTML, and XML  • Expertise in developing the applications using server side programming languages C# and VB.NET  • Expert in developing the applications using JavaScript, Angularjs, Knockoutjs, JQuery, VBScript, VBA  • Experience in developing dynamic data driven SOA (service Oriented Architecture) applications and writing DTOs (Data Transfer Objects)  • Experience in LINQ, Lambda Expressions, LINQ to SQL, LINQ to Entities, Entity Framework.  • Experienced in using 3rd party controls like Infragistics, Bootstrap, Aspose, ExpertPDF  • Good experience in creating and understanding UML class diagrams, activity diagrams and use case diagrams.  • Experience in developing large-scale applications using .NET framework in the areas that require Performance, Scalability, Security, and Extensibility.  • Experience in designing the data Models, and writing scripts using T-SQL  • Proficient in creating Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers in SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012/2014.  • Experience in using source controls like Rational Clear Case, Visual Source Safe (VSS), and Team foundation Server (TFS)  • Excellent in learning new technologies and easily adaptable to new environments.  • Good Communication, interpersonal, intuitive, technical, analysis and leadership skills.  • Thrive in both independent and collaborative work environments.  • Experience in documenting all phases of the software development life cycle. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NET Developer Hawaiian Airlines - Honolulu, HI September 2016 to Present Hawaiian Airlines is a web based application designed to provide its customers with different passenger services. This application is classified in two sections APPS and MOSS. APPS section provides different services such as - Booking, Hawaiian Miles Program, Gift certificates, E-certificates, wedding wings and affiliate login. MOSS Section provides the static contents for the web application from Microsoft Office SharePoint.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Design and Development of Business Logic Layer of the Application using .NET Framework 4.0.  • Developed micro services with Web / Restful API containing business logic and exposing end point.  • Worked in MVC Architecture.  • Involved in developing the requirement with C#, ASP.NET 4.5, MVC 4.0+, Web/Restful API's and Web services in .Net4.5 Technologies, Ajax Controls and Unit testing, system testing and Release Management.  • Writing server side code for various web forms using C#.  • Development of ASP.Net user controls/ Classes using C#.  • Efficient in writing Unit and Integration Test methods as part of development effort.  • Experienced in maintenance projects related to web applications. Responsible to create WPF controls and to create communication framework using WCF.  • Worked on User Interface System using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Developed class libraries to implement the business rules.  • Used ADO.Net to access data in SQLServer.  • Worked on Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) and Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Involved in analyzing the requirements and design of various modules in the application.  • Experienced in design WEB applications in 3 tier and N-tier architecture.  • Involved in Code Reviewing, Peer Reviewing and Fixing code review comments.  • Utilized LINQ for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation.  • Used Sitecore7.0 and utilized CMS solutions to design .Net application features.  • Changed settings in web. config file according to application needs.  • Used Sonar cube for measuring the code quality of the application.  • Development across the entire stack, including front-end, business-tier, and database-tier.  • Involved in source check-in, check-out and merging while working with Team Foundation Server (TFS). Migrated existing source control system to GIT, moved build system from TFS to VSTS in Azure.  • Build tasks to provide continuous auto mated builds based on polling the Git source control.  • Used NUnit to implement develop unit test cases.  • Making Documentation that includes MS Project Management and Ms Visio for Class Diagrams, Data Flow.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015, .Net Framework 4.0, ASP.NET, MVC 4.0, XAML, WCF, WPF, ADO.Net, JavaScript, JSON, Angular Js, Node JS, WEB API, REST, SQL Server 2012, IIS 8.5, VSTS, Octopus, Fiddler. NET Developer Applied Materials - Santa Clara, CA September 2014 to September 2016 Applied Materials is a software industry offers packages for automating the operation of complex manufacturing environments which include tool automation, manufacturing execution systems, materials control, simulation and scheduling software and related software support services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance. Working with Iterative Agile Methodologies.  • Designed the web UI using ASP.NET, HTML, DHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, CSS, Web Forms, Win Forms andAJAX controls.  • Designed and developed User Interface using JSON, JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, CSS3, DOM, XHTML, AJAX and jQuery, Bootstrap and Angular JS UI Developer.  • Expertise in developing and deploying plug-ins, custom workflow activities and java script extensions for MS Dynamics CRM.  • Experienced in translating requirements into solutions with proper dependencies and preparing strategic development plan in MS Dynamics CRM.  • Development and implementation of Web-based, client/servers and distributed applications.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using AngularJS framework.  • Created web Application using Asp.Net, Ajax and Web API.  • Experience in presentation frameworks/libraries like PRISM or MVVM Light.  • Consumed WPF service based on the requirement.  • The new single page application framework is based on Angular JS and Angular UI Bootstrap, which is responsive and attractive.  • Used Angular2 HTTP Module to make API calls and worked with the observables.  • Developed Custom Directives using Angular2. Implemented Routing, imperative Routing and Guards with the help of Angular2 Router Module.  • Coded in AngularJS MVC framework to build Web application for the internal use of the organization.  • Experience in using ASP.NET, AJAX framework for quickly creating efficient and interactive Web applications that work across all popular browsers.  • Used ASP.NET MVC to add functionality to individual pages such as to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the controller.  • Worked with WPF, Silverlight in creating custom controls, data binding and graphics using Expression Blend.  • Managed to implement a layout system which adapt to changing window and display conditions by using WPF layout controls.  • Implemented client-side win form application with tested using Visual Studio N-Unit Testing Framework and hosted on IIS.  • Developed Windows Forms for the user interface parts of the applications using various Windows controls like the Tree View control, List View control, Checked List Box control etc.  • Developed enhancements to MongoDB architecture to improve performance and scalability.  • Upgraded Mongo systems from 2.6 to 3.2.  • Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  • Developed JavaScript's to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump/mongo export and Mongo restore/mongo import.  • Involved in creating shards, replica sets and monitoring for Mongo Systems.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, indexes, Shard and replication.  • Used MongoDB third party tools (ROBO MONGO, MONGOOWL and MONGOVUE) and mongo-built in binaries to monitor and analyze the performance of MONGODB.  • Worked on different storage engines in Mongo. Managing Mongo databases using MMS monitoring tool for point in time Backup and recovery.  • Also used Entity Framework to pull the data from the SqlServer for a specific application.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for version control of the source code along with the maintenance of the builds and the relevant documents of the same.  • Converted .Net application to Microsoft Azure Cloud Service project as part of cloud deployment.  • Involved in Windows Azure to deploy the application on cloud and managing the session.  • Involved in evaluating and analyzing pre-written modules for performance tuning in application and data base procedures.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015/2017, .Net Core, MVC 5.0, C#, ASP.NET4.5, MVC 5.0, Entity Frame Work 6.0, HTML 5, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, Angular 2.0, JSON, TFS2013, WCF, IIS 7.0, ADO.NET, LINQ, NUnit, SQL Server 2014, SSIS, SSRS, Windows 7and UML. Senior .Net Developer Lee Hecht Harrison, CA June 2012 to August 2014 HR module consists of all the employee related functionalities for many clients and workforce module consists of functionalities which would evaluate the performance and milestones of various employees including high level officers.    Responsibilities  • Highly involved in discussing the user requirements with the team manager, preparing technical design documents for the project planning and designing the application and SQL database.  • Developing web based User Interfaces using C#, ASP.NET, AJAX, JAVASCRIPT, Telrik RAD controls and created several custom and User Controls for web pages.  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for client Validations  • Scheduling development work to team, coordinating the team for work progress  • Responsible for studying and understanding the third party payment (Payflow) API and integrating with the Credit card application.  • Extensively working with LINQ to Entities to write queries against the Entity Framework model  • Designed and developed databases and SQL queries respectively in SQL Server 2008.  • Using SQL Server Reporting (SSRS) to manage and display reports within the application.  • Participated in Scrum meetings to update/discuss the progress, report any issues that are pending or need immediate action or discuss any new applications with the team.  • In one of the applications, followed ASP.NET MVC pattern to develop the application.  • Responsible for performance tuning of the application by reducing the redundancy in the code and dynamically loading controls in the application.  • Actively involving in Quality Control (QC) of the application by looking into the bug fixes made by other developers and doing End-to-End testing  • Prepared test cases for unit and integration testing.  • Used Aspose for PDF documents  • Involved in application testing and performance tuning.  Environment: Visual Studio.NET2010, ASP.NET, MVC, C#, VB.NET, ADO.NET, XML, HTML, IIS, Win XP, SQL Server, Java Script, VBScript Dot net Developer Konica Minolta December 2010 to May 2012 This project is for designing a Sales Tracking system which deals with the Inventory, Material management, Order Processing and print schedules. The front-end provides user-friendly interfaces, Invoice report generation and Pending Order processing information. Inventory system covers the processes of raising requirement, calling for quotations, processing quotations, placing purchase order, tracking the purchase order, tracking the payment, receiving the material, stocking the material and issue of the material.    Responsibilities  • Designed user interface screens using Web forms  • Used Grid Views, Data Sets and Data Sources for updating data back to the Data base  • Created User Controls.  • Used LINQ to SQL as a middle ware component encapsulating the business logic  • Developed and consumed WCF services for data base interaction and for sharing the info with the third party vendors  • Developed business layer components in C#.net  • Create database tables using SQL Server stored procedures, triggers  • Client side validation using validation controls and JavaScript  • Used Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) web services for creating Service end points and Service contracts for the Application and consumed the web services  • SQL Reporting services is used to create reports  • Involved in solving Production Issues  • Developed SSIS packages to run on nights for the data sync and sending out emails.  Environment: .NET Framework, C#.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, XML, IIS, MS Visual Studio.NET 2008, JavaScript, VBScript Dot net Developer Sunrise Home July 2008 to November 2010 Involved in the web and windows applications development for home health software. Created web pages for patient data, employee data and payroll information. Both nurses and doctors can access patient data and the employees can access their payroll information. Customers can register through the website and the nurses enter information for them. The availability of the employees, the medication details, the bill details etc are available online. The customers can pay online and a receipt is sent via email once they are done with the payment process.    Responsibilities  • Involved in understanding of Functional Designs.  • Involved in designing and developing web methods for new requirements.  • Followed three tier architecture (data layer, business layer and service layer) using Web Services.  • Involved in developing services to use them in desktop applications.  • Developed the desktop application using WPF platform  • Used XAML to design the UI for the WPF application  • Involved in designing the database tables or changes to database.  • Used ADO.NET SQL Provider classes to communicate with the SQL Database  • Involved in Preparing the Test Cases and review the Test Cases.  • Involved in deploying the code in onsite testing Environment.  • Involved in implementation of exception handling.  • Create stored Procedures for data retrieval from the backend to the middleware.  • Implemented the application modules with 100% unit test code coverage  Environment: ASP.NET, C#.NET, VB.NET, XML, XSL, ASP, CSS, VBScript, JavaScript, Agile, HTML, SQL Server 2005, MS Access, Visual SourceSafe 6.0, Microsoft Visual Studio .NET 2005, IIS 5.0, Web Service, Windows 2000 Server ASP.NET Web Developer Sunrise Home February 2009 to June 2010 Application development using ASP.NET on .NET Framework. The job includes maintenance of the website and development of new functionalities to the existing one. The new functionalities include data transfer between the offices in Overseas and U.S., popup message tool, report download etc. The portal shows all the links to various functionalities. Users can click these links and can access the appropriate functionality.    Responsibilities  • Involved in all the phases of the development life cycle  • Involved in coding of modules to meet the generated functional requirements using C#.  • Developed User Controls for various module and Navigation.  • Used ADO.net to connect the business layer to the database.  • Used Datasets, Data Adapters, Data Readers and Data Connections for storage and retrieval of data from the database.  • Developed Master pages based on requirements.  • Used ASP.NET Server controls, AJAX Controls, User Controls and HTML server controls.  • Used JavaScript for client side validation  • Actively involved in Designing Tables, Stored Procedures & functions for retrieving & persisting data in the database.  • Involved in fixing bugs by debugging the application.  Environment C#.Net, Asp.Net with Ajax, Microsoft Visual Studio .Net-2008, .Net Framework 3.0, CSS, ADO.NET, Microsoft SQL Server-2005, SQL Server Management Studio Web Developer Texas A & M October 2007 to January 2009 Project Description: The job includes maintenance of university website, configuration of different systems, installation and upgrading of software and other tasks related to the faculty. The job includes interaction with professors and students to enhance the current application. The students can send the questions and answers according to the choice. They can view their academic credentials through the website.    Responsibilities  • Extensively worked with Web Forms using ASP.NET and C#.NET.  • Worked on pages using Classic ASP  • Followed the Microsoft Patterns and Practices and also used Data Application Block and Caching Block of Enterprise Library.  • Created OOPs objects like Collections, Interfaces implementations using C#.  • Implemented business logic as .NET Framework assemblies in C#.  • Developed user controls for multi pages usage  • Used Data list, Repeater, Data grid, Place Holder controls to show the data in the UI.  • Created User controls to maintain and minimize the pages.  • JavaScript used for client validations.  Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2005, .NET Framework 2.0/3.0, Classic ASP, ASP.NET, Infragistics, C#2.0/3.0, ADO.NET, VB 6.0, MS ACCESS, SQL Server 2000/2005, HTML, DHTML, XML, IIS, VSS, JavaScript Asp.NET Developer Tritech Corporation January 2006 to May 2007 Built software for managing the sales, marketing of the equipments and the business solutions for customer care.    Responsibilities  • Designed and developed forms for the intranet application  • Reusable UI widgets, such as the navigation menus, are implemented using ASP.NET User/Custom Web Controls.  • Interaction with SQL Server Database using ADO.NET classes from C#.  • Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for achieving uniformity through all the web pages and achieved uniform template design for the entire application using MasterPages.  • Developed Employee objects, and created functions to get data from data access layer using C#.  • Worked on Client Side Validation using Java Script.  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter, for consistent access to SQL Server data source.  • Used Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) for communicating with other application and components.  • Performed Unit testing and System testing and prepared required documents for testing.  Environment: Visual Studio 2005, ASP.NET, C#.NET, T-SQL, SQL Server 2005, XML, SSRS, VBA Software Programmer Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore Ltd November 2004 to November 2005 Database project development using visual basic, Oracle Developer 2000 and MS- Access. Software enhancements are done for the company payroll department, telephone department. The coding was done using visual basic and the back end used for the development was oracle and access.    Responsibilities  • Involved in understanding of Functional Designs.  • Used web services to get Data.  • Involved in Implementation the code in onsite testing Environment.  • Involved in implementation of exception handling  • Create stored Procedures for data retrieval from the backend to the middleware.  • Used transactions for database operations.  Environment: .NET Framework, VB 6.0, VB.NET, C#, ADO.NET, XML, IIS, Win 2003, MS Visual Studio.NET 2003, CSS, MS-Word, MS-Excel, MS Access, JavaScript, VBScript, VBA Education Masters in Computer Science Texas A & M University 2007 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science VTU University 2004 Skills .NET (10+ years), ADO (10+ years), ADO.NET (10+ years), C# (10+ years), MS ADO (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages C, C++, VC++, C#.NET, VB.NET, SQL, VB  Databases MS ACCESS, SQL SERVER 2000/2005/2008/2012/2014, Oracle 10/11 g  IDE MS Visual Studio.NET 2003/2005/2008/2010/2012/2013  .Net Technologies .NET Framework 1.1, 2.0, 3.0 & 4.0, ASP.NET, MVC 5, Web API 2.2, ADO.NET, ASP.NET Ajax, Windows Forms, Web Services, WCF, WPF, WWF.  Web Technologies Classic ASP, ASP.Net, HTML, CSS, XML.  .NET Technologies for accessing Data ADO.NET, LINQ to Objects, LINQ to SQL, LINQ to Entities (Entity Framework)  Scripting Languages Java Script, VBScript, Angularjs, Knockoutjs  Development Tools  Microsoft Visual Studio.Net 2003/2005/2008/2010/2012/2014, SQL Server Management Studio, Oracle Sql Developer, Visual Studio 6.0, Rational ClearCase, VSS, TFS, Sharepoint    Operating Systems MS Windows (2000/2003), Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7/10.