Web Developer and Administrator <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Administrator Web Developer and Administrator - Food and Water Watch Portland, OR Work Experience Web Developer and Administrator Food and Water Watch October 2014 to Present • Supervise assistant web developer and manage security maintenance of Drupal and Wordpress.  • Monitor web site performance metrics using Google Analytics, Search Console, Tag Manager, and Hotjar.  • Architect front-end websites and applications using Drupal and Wordpress CMS.  • Collaborate with internal and external teams to discuss, analyze, and resolve usability issues.  • Test front-end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility.  • Produce HTML5/CSS page templates from pdf and psd documents.  • Frequently implement A/B testing using Optimizely.  • Manage workflow using Git, and Drush. Web Communications Specialist Texas A&M University March 2012 to September 2014 • Executed and monitored standards for user interfaces, page design and graphics development.  • Maintained constant updates of the university's website, including designing, organizing and editing content.  • Worked closely with the marketing and communications team to develop new social media strategies.  • Implemented and developed responsive design templates for mobile devices.  • Assisted in the redesign process of University website from and provided counsel during development.  • Analyzed data using Google Analytics to incorporate new user trends and targeting. Director of Web Development Spring Arbor University August 2009 to March 2012 • Successfully led a team of five professionals and managed all facets of site development from initial design and architecture to site deployment and client management.  • Implemented Google Analytics tracking codes, campaigns, reports, goal tracking, event tracking, and advance segmentation for SAU's website.  • Directed a seasonal social media advertising campaign targeting potential students via Facebook and Google Ads and oversaw the design and performance of creative designs.  • Designed and managed the university's main marketing website and internal websites.  • Consulted with clients on web marketing strategies, marketing plans, web usability and brand recognition.  • Developed content to build social media audience utilizing Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Flickr Education A.S in Computer Science Baker College June 2009 Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Html5, Wordpress (8 years), Drupal (5 years), CSS (10+ years), React, Front End, Angular, Front-End