Sr. Python Developer Sr. Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Dart Dallas, TX • I have 17+ years of experience as a Python Developer with a deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in the core of complex technologies. Solid experience in analysis, design, and development, testing, implementation and maintenance of various web applications using Python and Django.  • Experience in application development using PYTHON, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite.  • Experienced in Shell Scripting (BASH, SH), UNIX and Linux, Open stack.  • Have good knowledge on No-Sql databases like Cassandra, Mongo dB and Redis (for caching)  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Used Git for version control and Jira for a defect tracking.  • Experience in C and C++ for both monolithic and RTOS based firmware architectures, handling multithreading and synchronization complexities.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP)  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, and PyDev.  • Hands on Experience with the implementation of Python libraries NumPy, SciPy, PyTables, SQL Alchemy, Matplotlib, Pandas, Beautiful Soup and urllib in various tasks.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP)  • Worked on developing Restful endpoints to cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like REDIS and exposed them with Restful endpoints.  • Utilize in-depth knowledge of Technical experience in LAMP and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  • Strong knowledge of Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts and Experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.  • Experience in Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Glacier, SQS, SNS, Cloud Formation, VPC, IAM, Route 53, EBS, DynamoDB, Lambada, Redshift  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark and No-SQL databases like HBase and MongoDB.  • Mentored other developers in engineering, installation, configuration, testing and administration of Linux servers and coherent with shell scripting.  • Excellent understanding of Software development life cycle (SDLC) and its models like Agile and waterfall.  • Developed web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  • Created Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers and Complex T-SQL queries in SQL Server.  • Designed and developed C and C++ language spacecraft software in the Wind River Workbench environment.  • Developed server side using PHP in both WAMP and LAMP server framework.  • Experience with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes.  • Hands on experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Expert knowledge of Object Oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experience in developing C++ services using web services, SOAP, WSDL and XML.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO.  • Experience in working on project following Agile Methodology, Scrum and sprints in python-based environment.  • Developed CI/CD system with Jenkins on Google's Kubernetes container environment, utilizing Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build and test and deploy.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Linux and UNIX.  • Experience object-oriented Design (OOD) concepts using Python, C++.  • Basic knowledge on Rest API and JSON Parsing, jQuery and Angular JS.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, Javascript and JQuery.  • Used C#, C++ and .Net development documentation to implement windows/desktop applications.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB. Designed and Developed automation scripts using Selenium Web Driver.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu, Linux and UNIX.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Experience on Boost C++ library which is used to capture and manipulate XML Schema. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Dart - Dallas, TX September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework  • Used HTML, CSS Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soap, NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  • Developed views and templates with Python OOD to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Specified, prototyped, developed and tested an object-oriented, multiplatform C++ framework containing support to: data structures, common algorithms sockets, threading.  • Refactor Restful APIs and Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, jQuery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose.  • Implemented client side validation to avoid back and forward between server-client and provide better user experience using AngularJS.  • Worked on fixing the bugs on existing Jiras and validated in the integration environment  • Technical experience with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON)  • Utilized Python 3.4 libraries such as numpy, pandas and matplotlib to read data from csv files aggregate and update data  • Involved in writing optimization techniques for more accuracy of Macros in C/C++, C++ routines and Oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  • Worked under Agile/Scrum environment and handled production rollouts and issues.  • Integrated Redis-Cache with Django Rest Framework for reading the data faster  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  • Worked in NoSQL and MySQL database on queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Used PhP language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone applications using Python and PHP.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions and developed multi-threaded standalone applications using Python and PHP.  • Reviewed codes in Shell Script, Pearl, Python, AWK, C++, PL/SQL & T-SQL; created subprograms, procedures and functions, DB triggers, cursors and optimization techniques for T-SQL.  • Responsible for debugging project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Worked on Jira for managing the tasks and improving the individual performance.  • Involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script.  • Ability to successfully implement the application in LINUX environment.  • Improved scalability by storing socket buffers on Redis and maintaining sessions by MongoDB.  • Uses Gmock/Gtest framework to do Unit testing of the developed C++ modules.  • Developed Docker images to support Development, TestingTeams and their piplines.  • Worked on virtual and physical Linux hosts and involved in day to day administrative activities such as maintaining user accounts and providing advanced file permissions to specific users.    Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.8, C++, MySQL, MongoDB, AWS, QPID, LAMP, Redis, JIRA, JSON, Angular JS, Docker, Agile, Jenkins, Linux, MYSQL, T-SQL, Shell, Spring MVC 4.0, PHP, Html5, JavaScript, Restful Web Service, Hibernate, jQuery, CSS, log4j, Tomcat, Python Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA August 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Design and develop solutions using C, C++, Multi-Threaded, Shell Scripting.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Built database structure and wrote Postgre SQL queries and Built Django and REDIS servers for data storing and Built web journal with framework and Jinja templates.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Working in team of Developers to build and deploy Python Flask, Peewee, on Linuxserver hosted on AWS.  • Responsible for Working on Celery.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Utilized STL and C++ algorithms to achieve optimal design efficiency.  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Responsible for using Tableau efficiently.  • Developed an application that would allow transfer of log files from Linux computer to Linux server using C++ multithreading environment.  • Collaborated on architecture, design including Python and Java automation framework.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra, QPID, Messaging, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, PHP)  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Worked on virtual and physical Linux hosts and involved in day to day administrative activities such as maintaining user accounts and providing advanced file permissions to specific users.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Shared responsibility for administration of Hive and Pig.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO)  • Programming and Changing UI screens using C++/QT Used multi-threading and thread synchronization extensively.  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.    Environment: Python 3.0, Django 1.6, C++, HTML5, QPID, CSS, PHP, Redis, Java, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, LAMP, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Pfizer - Madison, NJ July 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL. Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL  • Develop programs to automate the testing of controller in CI/CD environment using Python, Bash script, Git and Linux command line.  • Design and develop solutions using C, C++, Multi-Threaded, Shell Scripting and Python  • Developed Business Logic using python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django's view controller and templating language to create  • Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Used python to extract information from XML files.  • Expertise in Service Oriented (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Able to work with different operating systems like MacOS, Windows, and Linux.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using python Flask.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Used Angular JS in the view layer for some of the view components.  • Debugging and troubleshooting production issues, enforced, documented and implemented C++ standards guidelines.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in Spring framework using.  • Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Worked extensively with Core Java to develop code in Service Layer.  • Provide design recommendations, developing and data interaction programs per high level specifications  • Followed the Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD)  • Applied Do Not Repeat Yourself (DRY) principle.  • Created Business logic using Python under Linux OS.  • Used Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), to achieve loose coupling.  • Used Jira for Ticketing.  • Used Team City for Continuous build. Worked with UML Diagrams. Participated in application fine tuning.  • Used jQuery to provide better features on the front end.  • Provided extensive pre-delivery support using Bug Fixing and Code Reviews.  • Used LOG4J & JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: C++, Python3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, JSON, PHP, CSS3, AJAX, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, Jr.Python Developer Blackhawk - Harrisburg, PA June 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Deployed the entire code using Linux parameters of the virtual machines for UAT phase.  • Worked on Technologies: QT, QML, C++, QNX, UML, JavaScript and Json.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, Bootstrap, and REST API calls using the JSON.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Integrating the application with Django REST framework for building the API's.  • Worked with on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Extensively used XLSX reader and writer modules to read, write and analyze data and project the results as per the client request.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP-8 Guidelines in Python.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO)  • Utilized STL and C++ algorithms to achieve optimal design efficiency.  • Creating Restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL and Oracle.  • Using SQLAlchemy with Flask and PostgreSQL as database for developing the web application.  • Used REST and SOAP API for testing web service for server-side changes.  • Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintain and related task using Jenkins, Maven, Python, Bash.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgresql with complete data integrity.  • Automated tasks with tools like Puppet and Ansible.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bitbucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Continuous improvement in integration workflow, project testing, and implementation of continuous integration pipeline with Jenkins    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.10, MySQL, Python Scripting, MongoDB, AJAX, SOAP, REST, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS) VISA Inc - Foster City, CA May 2009 to June 2011 U.S.A    Responsibilities:  • B2B Connect, the user can transfer the money across the countries without the help of any third-party agencies.  • Participated in requirement collection, System Data Analysis and System Design process.  • Developed application for three admins (Visa, Bank and company) with home, payments, global settings pages.  • Created individual components using Angular 2/4 for each admin.  • Implemented functionality in ES6, Angular 2/4, and SASS and used webstorm, sublime and intellij javascript.  • Utilized local storage of HTML5 for storing values on client-side and Applied client-side validations using Angular 2  • Built the communication between (blockchain technology: cryptocurrency transactions) ethereum / hyperledger blockchain platforms and client interface using web3-js and python language.  • Use the Jenkins/JIRA into development server for intensive testing before going into the UAT (ET and IST)  • Built reusable code and libraries for future use.  • Built HTML5 and CSS system for controlling text display issues cross-platform and cross browser.  • Closely worked with back-end developers to optimize and user friendly experience.  • Collaborated with User Interface and User Experience teams.  • Converted UI/UX wire frames to build application web pages by accessing Web API services from multiple environment applications.  • Used agile methodology sprints for software development with GIT version control.  • Used firebug lite, safari, IE, with IE developer toolbar for debugging and integration test.  • Used testing Frame works Jasmine, Mocha, Karma and NP extension.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, bootstrap, Angular JS 2/4, ES6, SASS, JavaScript, Bracket, GIT, Restful services, java, GIT, webstorm, sublime, intellij javascript. Jasmine, Mocha. lead developer for the Web application ERICSSON - Santa Clara, CA April 2007 to May 2009 Santa Clara, CA, U.S.A    Responsibilities:  • Developed the POC for customer "Volvo". It is SPA developed with Angular. Where The user can get the data of latest travelled destinations based upon user the selection of time, day of the week, type of day fields.  • Application will give recommendations to the user where he can select one in his most recent travelled destinations.  • Worked as a lead developer for the Web application.  • Developed fully functional responsive prototypes based on Business Requirements using HTML/HTML5, CSS3, Angular 1.5 and ES6.  • Project has been implemented using Angular.js, jQuery, Python, Curl, Restful web services.  • Utilized cutting edge JavaScript and HTML 5 techniques, frameworks, and libraries.  • Tested front-end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility.  • Wrote support documentation and provided training to internal and external users.  • Worked collaboratively with a cross-functional team to define and develop product roadmaps.  • Ensured the technical feasibility of UI/UX designs.  • Worked in Agile settings.  • Used firebug lite, safari, IE, with IE developer toolbar for debugging and integration test.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, GitHub, Restful services, java, python, Bracket, SVN. HP Global Access - San Jose, CA March 2005 to April 2007 U.S.A    Responsibilities:  • This portal developed for HP enterprise, accessible for HP employees across the world. The user can pull the records from and database and can create own kits, the user can drag and drop the records in to the kits.  • Utilized Angular 1.x, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SASS, NPM, Node.js, Grunt, site development.  • Utilized elastic search for loading the data to client-side from Data Base.  • Used drag and drop plugin in Angular 1.x for dragging and dropping the reports to different kits.  • Used Angular.JS for developing the modules on front-end and binding the HTML.  • Fixed bugs from existing websites and implemented enhancements that significantly improved web functionality and speed.  • Utilized Bootstrap for responsive design.  • Have used angular.js controller $http for API integration.  • Used angular.js directives for binding the html elements.  • Used tableau for database.  • Used agile methodology sprints for software development with GIT version control.  • Used firebug lite, safari, IE, with IE developer toolbar for debugging and integration test.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Elastic search, Angular.JS, Atom, GIT, Restful, Tableau and java. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License