Technical Consultant Technical Consultant Beaverton, OR Business: Management of up to 8 person teams; Full project life cycles; Multiple and varied industry experience; Familiar with legacy conversions to current product/environments; Broad range of working environment experience; Experience working with multiple departments; Highly developed Communication Skills; Familiarity with large retail, financial, and ecommerce sites; Skilled Business and Data Analyst; Skilled coder and designer.  Core Technology Competencies: Coldfusion, JQuery, _EXT, MVC, JavaScript (backbone, angular, node, react), ASP, PHP, GIS, DHTML, HTML, XML, XSL, XHMTL, Flash/Actionscript, SQL, JHTML, JSP, VB, SOAP, ASP.NET, AJAX, VB.Net, Java, and Flex / Air.  Tools: Coldfusion (Webserver, Reportbuilder, Multiple Versions), Railo, Open Blue Dragon, MVC Frameworks (Coldbox, Fusebox1-5, Mach II, Angular, React), Javascript Library Familiarity, Coldspring, Automation Software (Hudson, Selenium), SQL (up through 2014), Crystal Reports, Dynamo ATG, Interwoven: Teamsite, Adobe (Aftereffects, Flash, Fireworks, Freehand, Director, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign), GIT, Google (Analytics, Gears), Homesite, XML Spy, XMetal, Interdev, Back Office, WSS, SharePoint, Oracle Designer / Developer, MS SQL Server 6.5 7, MS Commerce Server, SVC, Tortoise, Visual .Net, WebSphere, Omniture Tools, WebSideStory Tools, iPlanet, Netopia Tools, Apache, Netscape, IIS, Tomcat, I-Planet, Wordpress, Drupal Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Consultant CDK April 2019 to June 2019 Global (Consulting: TCS / IDC)  Contract position working on the Customer Success project for CDK Global. Work included Node.js, React, exposure and usage of the CDK component library as well as their Lumen library. Ran queries against an AWS DynamoDB using CLI tools, worked with Serverless, and Bamboo for Build and Deployment Plans. The environment was a Node js React environment with AWS S3 and DynamoDB on the back end using Lambda functions with Serverless for connectivity through the API. Most work was front end, UI work, with light data work, validation, and process work. The team used Agile methodologies with daily standups and bi-weekly sprints and grooming sessions. Freelancer Self Employed February 2015 to April 2019 Multiple small freelance remote projects through freelance / self employment sites in various technologies / environments / languages. Design work including multiple Adobe CS (I have my own master subscription), Krita, Inkscape, GIMP, and numerous other graphical design tools; environment comprised of Javascript libraries / frameworks such as JQuery, Node, Angular, React, and Backbone; databases being SQL in various flavors from mySQL to MS SQL; PHP, HTML, DHTML, Responsive Web Design, XHTML / XML. I've also been working with Unity, Unreal Engine, GMS, and various other IDE's for mobile, console, and desktop entertainment projects. I've done wire-framing, coding, graphic design, sound design / composing / mixing, and everything else involved in the process for various projects. programmer Peoples Credit March 2011 to 2016 working with internal and external facing web applications and web sites for the company. Working with CF 7/8/9, open CFML in the OpenBD (Blue Dragon) and Railo environment, MS SQL, DHTML, Javascript, jQuery, XML, GIS, PHP, JSon, REST, SOAP, multiple vendor API's, RWD (Responsive Web Design), and AJAX. Tools used for this position include GIMP, Inkscape, CF 7/8/9, Open CFML, SQL 2000, and Selenium.    The company shut down in the beginning of 2015, remaining to finish out current contracts. No longer buying contracts but handling standard day to day business. The intranet and web applications were still needed on a daily basis. As of the beginning of 2016 the company closed out its last contract and officially shut down as a business. During this time period the site code remained bullet-proof; there were no issues during that time period, and I merely reviewed logs for any unusual server activity on a weekly basis. programmer TEK Systems February 2010 to February 2011 within the MarCom group working with internal and external facing web applications and web sites for the company.  Working with Coldfusion and MSSQL, DHTML, Javascript, jQuery, and AJAX. Tools used for this position include Adobe CS4, CF 8, SQL 2000, Selenium, and Mercurial. Tripwire, Inc April 2009 to January 2010 Consulting: Staffing Solutions)  Floating length contract position as a programmer within the web group working with internal and external facing web applications and web sites for the company. Work is almost exclusively Coldfusion and MSSQL, DHTML, Javascript, and AJAX as well as other technologies. Tools used for this position include Adobe CS4 Web Premiere Suite, CF 8, SQL 2005, Coldspring, Mach II, Hudson, Selenium, Sharepoint, Eclipse and Subversion. Sr. Software Application Developer Kaiser Permanente January 2008 to January 2009 Consulting: IT Ascent) CMD, Software Application Developer ATSI Group August 2007 to January 2008 Consulting: ATSI Group)  Open ended contract position that as a programmer responsible for web based business/client applications/sites/interfaces which was extended numerous times. Work was almost exclusively Coldfusion MX7 and included MSSQL 2003, DHTML, Javascript, and AJAX. Tools used for this position included Dreamweaver MX7, CF 7.02, and SQL2003-2005. Software Application Developer Analytics Inc - Beaverton, OR May 2007 to August 2007 telecommuting not supported)  This is a permanent position as a programmer responsible for web based business applications and data management used by all employees, claimants, and clients. The work is Coldfusion MX7 and has included some prototype testing of Coldfusion 8 especially in reporting optimization and Crystal Reports integration as well as SQL 2003 work. Tools include Coldfusion Studio, Coldfusion MX7, SQL2003, and Crystal Reports. (coding and prototyping with AJAX solutions and high level Coldfusion object coding) Senior Web Software Developer Conklin Company Inc - Kansas City, MO November 2005 to May 2007 This is a permanent position as the sole programmer responsible for web applications. Virtually 100% of the work has consisted of Coldfusion MX7 and SQL 2005 work in a full life-cycle site build from scratch. Tools included Macromedia Studio Suite (now Adobe), Coldfusion MX7, IIS and SQL2005. (coding and prototyping included Flex/Flex2, flash actionscript, and AJAX; attended multiple Flex2 and CF8 e-seminars with Adobe) Technical Consultant Aware Web Solutions April 2005 to October 2005 Work for this company was in a consulting role responsible for project work with multiple client companies. The main project focus was on web solutions and included Interwoven: Teamsite, .net (ASP, VB, and C#), Javascript and XML. Tools used included Interwoven: Teamsite, Macromedia Studio MX 2004 (Dreamweaver, Fireworks and Flash), Visual Studio and Notepad. Quixtar, Teamsite Developer TEK Systems January 2005 to March 2005 This contract was with Quixtar (a subsidiary company to Alticor and sister company to Amway Products) and primarily focused on Interwoven: Teamsite development.  Additional responsibilities were broad in scope ranging from RSS and XML work to DHTML. Tools used included Interwoven: Teamsite, Macromedia Studio MX 2004 (Dreamweaver, Fireworks and Flash) and Notepad. Kaiser Permanente 2005 to 2005 projects/departments. Work is almost exclusively Coldfusion MX7 and includes MSSQL (various versions), Fusebox, DHTML, Javascript, and AJAX as well as other technologies. Tools used for this position include CS3 Web Premiere Suite, CF 7.02 and 8, and SQL 2000-2005. Web Developer and Designer (Pro-bono Freelance) Girl Scouts December 2003 to December 2004 This project was a pro-bono project spanning multiple web sites for a number of local Girl Scout troops and involved neighborhood groups. The different sites use slightly varying technologies including both ASP/MSSQL, PHP/MySQL, SOAP, and Coldfusion solutions. Tools used include Fireworks, Dreamweaver, Flash, Coldfusion, Web Statistics tools, Remote administration tools and more. Web Developer and Designer (Kelly IT) Intel May 2004 to November 2004 This contract was with Intel HR and covered numerous areas of their HR Intranet. Additionally, other groups utilized my time there and did so for the full contract length. Client work included a WSS (Windows Sharepoint Services) migration/implementation in a SharepointPortal. Some of the technologies included DHTML, HTML, CSS, Java Script, .NET, MSSQL and WSS as well as design/graphic work. Tools included Macromedia Studio MX 2004 (Dreamweaver, Fireworks and Flash), Visual Studio and Notepad. Compliance Conversion Expert (Freelance) IBM May 2004 to June 2004 This project was a compliance conversion project for IBM's' RUP group. It entailed the use of compliance tools and checkers. It was a large scale HTML conversion project using Notepad/Edit pad, Dreamweaver MX, Lift and Jaws. Web Developer and Designer State of Oregon February 2004 to March 2004 This project was the Oregon State branding project. It had an extremely short project lifecycle and went live on the 12th of March under the support of their local team. It was DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS based using Interwoven Teamsite TPL and DCR/DCT files. Tools used included Interwoven Teamsite, Notepad/Edit pad, and Homesite 5.5. Senior Engineer Whitehorse October 2003 to December 2003 Duties and responsibilities included handling numerous clients (GM, Celestial Seasonings, Rolling Stone, Diners Club, ATT Wireless, Nautilus, Stech-Vaughn) requests/projects on contract and retainer basis. High level analysis, RFP consulting, SOW definitions and similar document and project definitions. Work included PHP, JSP, JHTML, ASP, HTML, XML, XSL, Perl, Lingo, SOAP, and Actionscript. The applications/tools used included MS Commerce Server, ATG:Dynamo, Websphere, I-Planet, MSSQL, Homesite, Notepad, Dreamweaver, Fireworks and Flash. Web Developer and Designer (Freelance) VuBay September 2003 to November 2003 This project was for the real estate developer and entrepreneur Tommy Vu. It included a patent pending turnkey solution for real estate investing, purchasing and selling online. The site uses Flash, DHTML, HTML, VMS, SOAP and Delphi/SQL web application. Tools used to develop included Flash, Fireworks, Dreamweaver, Coldfusion and Homesite as well as a number of administrative web based tools. Cadence PCB, Webmaster Hall Kinion to Kforce May 2003 to August 2003 Worked for Cadence PCB (formerly know as Orcad PCB, bought by Cadence) as their webmaster. Supported and enhanced / developed multiple Cadence sites. The sites included different technologies including ASP.Net, VB.Net, XML/XSLT, ASP, SOAP and JavaScript. The tools used included Homesite, XML Spy, Flash, Fireworks, Xmetal2, Visual .Net Studio and assorted web applications. Web Developer and Designer (Freelance) Providence Health System May 2001 to January 2003 This particular client had multiple projects. All projects were Flash interactive pieces. One was a game created for the annual bicycle event in Oregon, Bridge Pedal. Another was an interactive map application for all of their physical locations. Tools used include Coldfusion, Flash, FTP Clients, Dreamweaver, Acrobat (PDF), Homesite, Fireworks, Autocad 2002, Sound Forge and Acid Loops, Illustrator, Freehand and Photoshop. Web Developer and Designer Nike August 2002 to September 2002 This project was the Nike Town phase 2 redesign project. Tools used included Dynamo ATG, Websphere, I-Planet, Interwoven, and Homesite. Work included development of jhtml pages covering the B2C pages for their complete retail solution. Senior Engineer April 2002 to September 2002 See above. Cadence PCB, Webmaster Hall Kinion to Kforce January 2002 to August 2002 Worked for the client Cadence PCB (formerly know as Orcad PCB, bought by Cadence) on an XML/XSL/ASP conversion project. Moved multiple old sites designed and implemented as ASP/HTML sites across to newer technologies as part of a redesign. Used Dreamweaver, Homesite, XML Spy, Fireworks, Xmetal. Nike March 2001 to May 2001 Web Developer and Designer This project was the redesign of the Meridian Technology Group web site. The goals were twofold; improving the look and feel and the functionality of the site. Tools used included Visual Interdev, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, and Photo Draw.  Programming included HTML, DHTML, Java Script, ASP and Flash. Consonus, Web Application Developer Meridian Technology Grp January 2001 to March 2001 This was a Cold Fusion project for Placeware, a Consonus customer. Cleaned up the code base, created new modules, produced analytical page diagrams, created additional table structures, and aided in the overall design structure of the site as a component framework. Work included the use of the following tools: Cold Fusion Studio, Homesite, SQL, Oracle and Visio 2000. Web Developer and Designer Nike November 2000 to January 2001 This was an intranet only project with the goal being the creation of a web tool for the designers to draw inspiration and material for their work from. I worked with the library systems graphic designer to develop the site. I also worked with networking, web, general IT and support groups. Development was done on a Macintosh 8600, G3 and G4 using Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Photoshop, and Illustrator using HTML, JavaScript, and DHTML programming. The site was implemented in a UNIX environment along with MS Site. NOTE: This project and the one below occurred at the same time. I worked the Intel position early and the Nike position in the evening. Intel, Web Application Developer and Designer Nike November 2000 to January 2001 Designed and developed an Invoice Retrieval Interface to a Mobius Database using Mobius E-Search and View. Work included incorporating the interface into the existing online AP system using ASP pages, JavaScript, and HTML. Additional work included, updated AP Payment Tracker online application throughout all areas including Invoice, Confirmation Number, PO Number, and Date Range Inquiries. These updates were made using VB and JavaScript on ASP pages.  NOTE: This project and the one above occurred at the same time. I worked the Intel position early and the Nike position in the evening. Professional Services Engineer Corillian Corporation November 1999 to November 2000 Duties included the design and maintenance of User Interface web pages for Corillian Clients. The Development of E-Commerce web pages interfacing to the Corillian Voyager platform were accomplished using Corillian' proprietary coding methods. All projects included very high-level JavaScript coding, ASP, XML, HTML and DHTML for functionality. Tools used included Notepad, Homesite, Interdev, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, Paint Shop Pro, Photoshop, Director, and Animation Studio. Web Master Skechers USA July 1998 to November 1999 This position was the team lead responsible for all of SKECHERS websites. This included four unique sites as well as the company intranet, and numerous multimedia projects. Technologies used included HTML, DHTML, Java Script, and XML on Netscape web server and Apache web server. The tools used for site design and maintenance included Macromedia - Freehand, Fireworks, Dreamweaver, Sound Forge and Acid Loop, Flash, Director, Authorware; Adobe Photoshop, Aftereffects, Illustrator,    and Acrobat. Web Master WEB Service Company Inc November 1996 to May 1998 Webmaster managing a team of contractors responsible for a full lifecycle online  web-based system. Using a Sun Ultra Enterprise 3000 with Oracle 7 (plus Oracle web solutions) and a dual processor 300 NT machine running IIS and Visual Interdev for complete development this project included moving all legacy business systems into a web-based environment. The divisions included were Accounting, Legal, Development/Engineering, IS, Data Processing, Sales, Administration, Service, and Maintenance. Both a mobile sales program and service program were a part of the web-based system using standardized laptops with remote connectivity capabilities. In addition to all of the technical skills required for this position, communication and management skills were also necessary for management of the consulting team and upper level management communications. Education Associate Skills Aix, Linux, Solaris, Unix, Ux, Hp-ux, Windows 7, Ms windows 7 Certifications/Licenses -- Audited Coursework -- July 2019 to Present Started auditing Harvard's online R, Python, and Analytics, as well as CS50 course work. Assessments English Communication Skills: Typing — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cwqhte22euym52-b Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/i7bttc-nkoo27fuf Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/72oivvzrsmd5-xl Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dwk47nh7fdxw6nin Data Analysis — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/notpjguugksjyrl7 Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ga9uq9euhhjna4-t Business Math — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to use basic math to solve problems in a business context. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1t6fkgdqacmujwgc Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cdvdunk1thsqfcaz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Publications Automation, AI, and Their Impact https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/automation-ai-uproar-troy-rosman/ 2019-03 A brief tech blog article on the effects of automation and advancing technologies on our world. Specifically focusing on the impacts of automated vehicles and the results that will have on the economics surrounding automobiles. Additional Information Hardware/OS: DOS, Wacom and Cintique Tablets for design work, Multiple Scanners, MS Windows 7/8/10/Vista/XP/2k/2kpro/NT/9x/3.1, UNIX (HP-UX, AIX, Solaris, different shells), Linux (different flavors and GUIs), IBM OS/WARP, Mainframes