SEO & ADA Compliance Developer Contract SEO &amp; ADA Compliance <span class="hl">Developer</span> Contract ADA Compliance Developer Contract Houston, TX HTML5, Cold Fusion, SEO Management, Web Developer, Web Designer, Search Engine Optimization, Webmaster, Sharepoint designer, html web developer, photoshop to html, seeking permanent/ contract work  Expert Skillset  ? HTML, HTML5  ? Classic ASP, ASP.Net, ASPX  ? ColdFusion  ? JavaScript  ? SQL Server 2000 & 2005  ? XHTML. DHTML, XML, HTML5  ? CSS Cascading Style sheets, CSS3  ? Search Engine Optimization  ? VB.Net, VBScript,Visual Studio 2003 & 2005  ? Microsoft SharePoint  ? AJAX, Paypal Web Services  ? Adobe Photoshop CS2, CS3, Fireworks  ? Dreamweaver  ? Entire Microsoft Office Suite: Word, Excel, Access, Powerpoint, FrontPage  ? Windows NT/2000/XP/Vista  ? Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Fireworks  ? Sony Vegas Video Creation  ? Google Adwords, Google Analytics,Google Adsense, Google Webmaster, Youtube  ? Microsoft Streaming Video  ? Google Analytics Certified  ? Mail Chimp, Sales Force, iContact, Mass eMail Marketing Software    N3 Electronics  SEO Freelance work Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SEO & ADA Compliance Developer Contract Landry's Corporate 2017 to 2018 Over 50 + Websites redesigned to become ADA COMPLIANT and Search Engine Optimized  ? Monitor the functionality and reliability of the website performance with regard to broken links, orphaned pages, etc.  ? Review all error reports and corrects coding errors identified.  ? Review ADA compliance needs identified through Site Improve to ensure accessibility to customers.  ? Correct Webpages in accordance to ADA Compliance  ? Create Documentation for ADA Compliance Coldfusion Web Developer Robert Half Staffing June 2016 to October 2016 1 month contract  Contract Work in a corporate environment for a classified firm developing coldfusion applications with SQL databases  Other titles for this position were Front End Developer, Back End Developer, ColdFusion Web Developer    As a contracted coldfusion web developer I worked with the IT team to maintain existing web applications, intranet websites and extranet web sites. This included things like adding fields to databases, writing code in jquery to perform certain web functions, tracking  resolving bugs, creating technical documentation and assisting in test plans.  • HTML and Javascript skills applied  • Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008  • ColdFusion, AJAX, jQuery and/or HTML  •Utilized time management and organizational skills, took initiative in decision making and problem resolution  • I communicated effectively verbally and written to all levels of the Organization, identify and solve a problem with limited guidance  • Office 2007/2010    Other software and technologies used were SQL Queries, web sites , web pages, CMS, web develop, web design, javascript,jquery, css, Adobe dreamweaver,  Adobe photoshop Website Developer, Web Designer, Search Engine Optimization N3webmaster Company 2009 to 2016 Working with CEO's and upper management for Various Industries developing, designing and optimizing business websites while at the same time garnering an incredible amount of knowledge in all facets of multiple industries and the technological set backs that many companies face due to a poor online presence and lack of knowledge of the industry.  From front-end to back-end to Marketing Stategist I served as a Website Developer, Graphics Designer, and Search Engine Optimization Expert for the following 3 sites simultaneously under my own company name of N3webmaster.com    Types of Services I provide Business Owners:    ? Website development and design and search engine optimization  ? Provide customer support during the creation of the website and provide maintenance  ? Develop web applications using: HTML, ASP, Asp.net, VB.net, SQL, ColdFusion  ? Design graphics using Adobe Photoshop  ? Search Engine Optimization and strategic marketing  ? Increase visits to website by using White Hat SEO and search engine friendly html layouts Cyber Security Specialist University of Houston July 2015 to October 2015 Cyber Security Certificate Received    Government Grant received to take Cyber Security Bootcamp course in Information Security technology concepts and fundamentals of security technologies, including understanding security layers, authentication, authorization, accounting, security policies, network security, and protecting the Server and Client. Web Developer / Web Designer / Search Engine Optimization Specialist Girl Scouts of America April 2014 to October 2014 Create web pages and web applications through the use of aspx, jquery, javascript, JSON, HTML5, Coldfusion technologies  ? Develop. NET web application to receive volunteer contact information and send the information to a Sql Database using a custom created web service.  ? Design & Development of entire. Net application including innovative way of presenting the application to users through the latest HTML5 & CSS3 technologies  ? I designed applications and coded the information to be processed securely through a web service, using Vb.Net, Visual Studio, wrote XML / WSDL code for web service. Ajax processed the Html code, coupled with Javascript functions, and for validation jquery was used.  ? Serve as Lead Web Designer, Lead Web Developer, Google Search Engine Expert  ? Web Design of their new website for the San Jacinto Council, using Coldfusion to Code forms  ? Web Application built using Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Visual Studio  ? Develop exact replica of currently purchased template from outside vendor, built master pages for their 4 other websites, master template matched the newest design they had purchased from a vendor  ? Work on custom applications using Sharepoint 2007  ? Head of IT was extremely pleased Optimization Lead Trainer Sysco Foods January 2014 to January 2014 1 MONTH CONTRACT    ? Google Analytics Consultant and Seo Expert  ? Help ease transition into Google Analytics  ? Analyze current order management system  ? Implement plans for event tracking for order management system  ? Create Reports within Google Analytics  ? Build custom Dashboards  ? Report to head of eCommerce and Sales  ? Educate employees on Coding and development within Google Analytics  ? Share knowledge and expertise  ? Train staff in Google Analytics  ? Worked with IT team to identify issues and find solutions to queries about Google Web Master /SEO Web Traffic Coordinator / Web Developer Google AdWords January 2013 to December 2013 1 YEAR CONTRACT    Execute visionary web based projects to create competitive edge solutions for digital marketing, advertising, Google AdWords use on a daily basis, CRM, content management, search engine optimization techniques, and provide expertise and thought leadership for strategic and tactical execution of web based projects.    Responsibilities include:  ? Applications utilized were Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash, and Adobe Fireworks to develop and design  ? SQL Server or MySQL  ? Find potential clients with Salesforce based on certain criteria to email marketing material to. Marketing tools also included icontact, mailchimp, Marketo and many other applications  ? Design image for emails and websites using applications such as Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop  ? Assist in the planning and implementation of overall company policy regarding Search Engine Optimization and web development  ? Identify and implementing strategies for increasing site traffic through organic search Listings  ? Research and resolving HTML code and content, link architecture and navigation issues  ? Manage and analyze google Adwords account for optimal ROI  ? Send all digital communication campaigns to prospects and analyze analytics for best results  ? Moderate and administer webinars (through WebEx)  ? Analyze website analytics and translating qualitative or anecdotal data into recommendations and tactics for revising Marketing strategies/ campaigns  ? Work on projects with direction from Creative Director including web layout enhancements and website  enhancements  ? Code web pages utilizing CSS and XHTML and programming languages including JavaScript, SQL, PHP, and current CMS system  ? Developing sites and implementing SEO techniques, and managing Adwords  ? Program using HTML, XHTML, CSS, ASP, ASP.NET  ? Manage Blog sites in wordpress  ? Work with Mura CMS Software, provide troubleshooting and support Freelance Project Directory One 2011 to 2012 Web Administrator / Search Engine Optimization  ? Optimize client websites using white hat SEO techniques  ? Conduct keyword research  ? Administer websites and advise on web development plan  ? Drive traffic to websites using Search Engine Optimization  ? Research current SEO trends and apply to client's website  ? Track traffic using Google Analytics  ? Invent new SEO strategy/ tactics for a highly competitive keyword in Houston area Search Engine Optimization Specialist Intercontinental Jewelers - Houston, TX August 2010 to October 2010 Jewelry store owner had a website that was having difficulty attracting visitors.  ? Develop an SEO strategy  ? Conduct keyword research  ? Create campaign for PPC, Google Adwords and Facebook ads/ campaigns  ? Research current SEO trends and apply findings to website  ? Track using google analytics  ? Invent new SEO strategy/ tactics for a highly competitive keyword in Houston area  ? Increase traffic from 500 to 1200 per month Sharepoint UI / UX Designer Sogeti June 2010 to August 2010 Create a fresh new design for Toyota's internal portal sites within Microsoft Sharepoint framework.  ? Create 3 Prototypes using CSS and Master Pages within SharePoint 2010 Framework  ? Design Wireframes using Visio 2010 and Photoshop  ? Develop website using ASPX, HTML, CSS, XML and SharePoint 2010  ? Work with other UI Designer & SharePoint Infrastructure Architects Web Designer, Web Developer, Google SEO Midtown Doggy Daycare and Spa 2008 to 2010 As the sole Web Developer, Web Designer, and Traffic Coordinator for the website www.mdds-houston.com, it was empowering as a professional to see the website rank #1 for such a highly competitive keyword as "houston dog day care".  Responsibilities included:  - Website development & Search Engine Optimization.  - Develop web applications using: HTML, Flash  - Conduct onpage and offpage SEO.  - Design Graphics using Adobe Photoshop  - Convert design into actual HTML pages design CSS pages  - Implement strategic seo techniques related to SEM strategic marketing  - Drive traffic to site, increase visits  *(SEO SKILL SHOWCASE: Transformed a 5 visitor a month to 500 in less than 1 month) ColdFusion Lead Web Developer M.D. Anderson Hospital March 2008 to April 2008 Even though I was only given a deadline of 1 month, I was was able to develop and continue to maintain a strong rapport with the 6 web developers I worked with at MD Anderson.  Responsibilities included:  - Analyze current system to develop a new calendar application for physicians to book appointments easily.  - Develop web applications using: Coldfusion, flex, flash forms.  - Develop Web Application for scheduling time and physician schedules.  - Work with project Managers, head of IT, analysts and other developers. Marketing Business IT Liaison Gelb Consulting Group November 2007 to April 2008 Marketing research & polling company, product design, brand identity  ? Data Manager, Graphic Artist, SPSS, Technology & Business Media Coordinator, Web Developer  ? Manage multiple Client surveys  ? Develop web applications using: VB.net, classic ASP, ASP.net, html, SPSS  ? Designed graphic for Houston Harris County Immunization  ? Run web-based data collection, conducted database development, and solving technical issues  ? Create Ad for Product Development using flash animations, Create Web Graphics in Photoshop  ? Work with project Managers, head of IT, analysts, marketing managers, designing graphics Web Developer, Web Designer, SEO, Google eVision Systems 2004 to 2007 promoted to Web Master/ Graphics Designer, Search Engine Optimization Lead    Industry: Consulting, Microsoft Customer Retail Management, Microsoft Partner  Initially hired as a web programmer then grew in a webmaster role. As a webmaster I managed 10 websites on a daily basis in various programming languages  ? Developed web applications using VB.net, ASP.net, HTML, XHTML.  ? Managed SEO Campaigns for websites written in PHP, C++, VB.NET, ColdFusion, Javascript and Coldfusion, PHP  ? Perform Search Engine Optimization for Clients Websites, Plan future SEO Strategies  ? Create Logos, Ads for Marketing Products, Flyers, using Photoshop, flash animations for educating  employees on company policies  ? Work with marketing managers, designing graphics for mass marketing campaigns  ? Advise clients on their web content for the best layout and color schemes  ? Write Code for Websites, code migration of PHP to ASP.NET and ASP.NET to ColdFusion  ? Acquire knowledge about SEO and User browsing, UI, Information Architecture Education Certification University of Houston Cyber Security 2015 Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Technology University of Houston - Houston, TX 2006 Skills SEO, Customer Service, Google Analytics, Digital Marketing, Marketing