Manager Manager Cypress, TX seek a career in a field where my skills and background are best put to use to reach a common goal. Work Experience Manager Kings Plan LLC 2015 to July 2019 I started my own company in 2015 in where I developed a brand and online retailer (KaseKingz and ToyThug) where I sold custom merchandise that I developed and retailed products from manufactures. My skill set from previous jobs gave me the experience to run my online website, handle all marketing and manufacturing. Our brand account has over 250k followers with an email list of 140k. Web Developer / Marketing / SEO / IT Crist Roofing 2013 to 2016 At Crist Roofing I was hired to develop their website for the 2nd Largest Residentail Roofing company in West Georgia and controlled their marketing from online advertisements such as Google PPC, Facebook. I ranked Crist Roofing in many different keywords on Google as well.  Ads, Retargetting to handling billboards advertisements and radio ads. General Manager Church's Chicken 2012 to 2014 As an Manager for Church's Chicken my duties included scheduling among all employees, quality control,inventory management, payroll management, and overseeing day to day operations of employees to ensure that the daily task/service levels are being met. In addition, I trained and mentored new and seasoned employees in attaining common goals as a team. Learned very quickly how to delegate customer service issues while striving to achieve excellence in customer satisfaction. Logistics Manager, Web Developer, Electronics Technician Prattigan Technology Group Inc 2008 to 2012 As a multitalented employee for Prattigan Technology Group Inc. my duties included managing incoming and outgoing parts for televisions. I oversaw shipping and receiving issues as they arise and routed delivery drivers to reduce down time and increase efficiency. I Built and maintained the online store for retail and wholesale buyers. In addition, I assisted with inbound sales and customer service by providing excellent sales skills, rapport, and follow up with retail and wholesale accounts. Shift Manager KFC/Taco Bell 2006 to 2009 I started as an employee and worked my way into a shift manager position in less then 6 months. As the shift manager my services consisted of overseeing employees tasks and duties were in coordination with the guidelines of the company. Assisted in streamlining the production line by increasing production flow by lowering "to go" order times down by 30% from when I originally started. In addition, my other duties included assisting upper management in overseeing scheduling, inventory control, and striving to achieve optimum customer service levels through customer driven surveys. Education Douglas County High School - Douglasville, GA Skills Scheduling, Inventory, Operations, Microsoft Word, Team Building, Photoshop (10+ years), Word, Wordpress (10+ years)