Event Photographer Event Photographer Photographer Antelope, CA Father of three. My family and I moved to US from Ukraine in 2012. Spent three years on learning English. Finished working on AA degree in Computer Science and Photography at Sierra College in May 2019. In December 2017 purchased my first DSLR and it intrigued me immensely.   Looking for a photographer position as a part or full time job, or contrator. Efficient editing in Photoshop and Lightroom.   Have experience working with PtGui creating VR360 photos with DSLR. Have strong experience in creating websites, working with FTP and custom coding.   Strong understanding of SEO. Fast learner and am ready for something new. Have plan to purchase DJI Mavic 2 Pro. Also, I will purchase ANY other equipment needed for the job. Would be happy to work with you. Thank you. Work Experience Event Photographer City Of Rocklin - Rocklin, CA June 2019 to Present Photographing events for the City of Rocklin Management Office. Photographer, photographer assistant Grad Images - Sacramento County, CA December 2018 to Present Photographing graduation events and assisting other photographers Web Developer - Designer Your Ideas Online - Antelope, CA October 2000 to Present • Promoted websites using Search Engines Optimization. Made projects friendly for search engines such as Google, Yahoo, Yandex etc.  • Secured web projects against DDOS attacks • Created and coded custom website projects, site layout, Wordpress themes. Alternate sites for mobile devices • Tested page speed and usability of web projects • Performed site-wide redesign both with the backend coding and the frontend design including selection of pictures.  • Built websites, forums, blogs using CMS such as Joomla, Wordpress, Drupal, phpBB. Web developer (volunteer) Feastech - Sacramento, CA June 2012 to July 2012 • Built and redesigned websites, blogs using CMS Wordpress • Created and coded custom website projects, responsive site layouts, Wordpress themes. Alternate sites for mobile devices. Computer Scientist-Assembler self-employed 1997 to 2000 Computer Assembler Ministry of Industrial Politics - Kiev, UA June 1997 to August 1997 • Tested and Installed computer equipment and parts • Installed and secured computer operating system Education Associate Degree in Photography Sierra College 2018 to May 2019 Associate Degree in Computer Science Sierra College 2015 to 2017 Skills CMS, DATA MANAGEMENT, HTML, PHP, LINUX/UNIX, CSS, MYSQL, WORDPRESS, SEO, PHOTOSHOP, Photography (2 years), Lightroom, Adobe Photoshop, Powerpoint Links http://ruslanphotography.com