Chief Technology Officer (CTO) Chief Technology Officer (CTO) CTO, VP Engineering, Technology Leader and Developer Seattle, WA As a technology leader, I have scaled startups from zero to 250+ employees. I’ve had the great opportunity to have an IPO and served as a board facing CTO. I’ve managed the technical diligence and integration of 5 different acquisition companies.    As a hands-on manager, I have spent my career leading successful software engineering teams as a VP of engineering and CTO.    As a developer, I have real-world experience deploying APIs and micro-services that process billions of transactions per day from ad-tech applications to consumer-facing web apps that serve millions of users.    I have extensive experience with PHP, Laravel, Javascript, MySQL, Redis, and big-data storage engines. I've deployed large-scale applications on massive bare metal clusters and cloud providers like AWS and Google Cloud. I have a passion for CI/CD pipelines and test-driven development.    Currently an organizer of the Seattle PHP Meetup group with 1,900+ members and the organizer of the annual Long Horn PHP Conference. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Chief Technology Officer (CTO) 800.com - Bellevue, WA March 2019 to Present - Help 800.com design, plan and launch it’s next-generation SaaS platform    - Writing code and shipping it to production    - Creating detailed architectural system specifications    - Managing the Jira project and queue    - Running stand-ups for multiple teams and acting as product owner    - Working with designers to create wireframes and designs for product features    - Conducting interviews and managing the interview process    - Acting as a QA and release manager SVP Engineering RhythmAudience at RhythmOne May 2017 to March 2019 - Recruit and lead engineering teams and managers located in Austin TX, San Francisco CA, New York City and Bangalore India. Leadership includes running daily stand-up meetings, ensuring team is hitting defined goals and acting as principal software architect.    - Effectively communicate with the product team and stakeholders and ensure software projects are delivered on time with high quality.    - Represent the Rhythm Audience engineering group at a high level throughout the organization.    - Coordinate with and ensure the Rhythm Audience group is conforming to the wider organization engineering goals and standards.    - Research, evaluate and implement new technologies within the organization.    - Set up and enforce coding standards, unit testing, acceptance testing, code review process, continuous integration and continuous deployment systems.    - Assist in architecting high volume applications within a micro-service environment.    - Oversee an overseas engineering teams consisting of over 40 mobile, web and front-end developers.    - Define and ensure applications both mobile and web are being written according to documented standards. Chief Technology Officer Perk February 2016 to May 2017 - Recruit and lead engineering teams located in Austin TX, San Francisco CA, New York City and Bangalore India. Leadership includes running daily stand-up meetings, ensuring team is hitting defined goals and acting as principal software architect.    - Research, evaluate and implement new technologies within the organization.    - Set up and enforce coding standards, unit testing, acceptance testing, code review process, continuous integration and continuous deployment systems.    - Bring highly scalable web applications from concept to reality. These applications receive hundreds of millions of requests per day and power the Perk platform.    - Architected a big data warehouse solution for analytics and internal metrics that drives business decisions.    - Oversee an overseas engineering teams consisting of over 40 mobile, web and front-end developers.    - Serve as principal architect of high volume web applications built by the engineering team.    - Define and ensure applications both mobile and web are being written according to documented standards.    - Architect a custom big data analytics solution to solve data and reporting issues unique to the business. VP Engineering Perk July 2014 to February 2016 - Architected, built and maintained Perk’s backend API which processes 85,000 million requests per day.    - Introduced and built backend systems in the Laravel PHP Framework    - Implemented the beanstalkd background queue system for all asynchronous workloads.    - Added the ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana) for backend application monitoring and error reporting across the entire organization.    - Define and document APIs and ensure they are built according to the specifications agreed upon.    - Audit and verified that all consumers (mobile apps and web properties) are integrating APIs according to specifications. Sr. Developer Perk January 2013 to July 2014 - Architected, built and maintained Perk’s backend API which processes 85,000 million requests per day.    - Introduced and built backend systems in the Laravel PHP Framework    - Implemented the beanstalkd background queue system for all asynchronous workloads.    - Added the ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana) for backend application monitoring and error reporting across the entire organization.    - Define and document APIs and ensure they are built according to the specifications agreed upon.    - Audit and verified that all consumers (mobile apps and web properties) are integrating APIs according to specifications. Sr. Developer BestFit Mobile + Marketing October 2011 to December 2012 - Lead a team of mobile and backend developers from inception to launch of Michaels Stores mobile apps on both Apple iOS and Google Android.    - Acted as principal architect and developer for the Michaels Stores API application backend.    - Successfully scaled the mobile app in the Apple App Store, Google Play Store and the API application backend to over 3 million users worldwide.    - Acted as principal architect and lead a team of developers to develop Michaels Stores daily deals web application. Application serves coupons and deals to loyal customers.    - Successfully scaled the Michaels Stores daily deals web application to a peak of 5 million users in a single Black Friday rush.    - Design high availability server infrastructure to support web services capable of serving millions of users on a daily basis.    - Designed automated systems for automatic failover in the event of server downtime for high availability.    - Created could-based systems for automatically scaling and adjust server resources based on current demand to cut costs. Sr. Web Developer Heatwave Interactive November 2010 to October 2011 Create and maintain legacy back-end web services that power social games. Maintain game web sites.  Maintain web services that power retail boxed game releases. Web Developer Meg Whitman for Governor 2010 April 2010 to November 2010 at modiphy®  January 2005 - February 2010 (5 years 1 month)  Programming and design of database driven web sites written in PHP + MySQL. Dealing directly with clients. Providing customer support to clients. Administration of in-house network, Intranet and VPN.  Administration of several shared hosting servers with hundreds of live sites on each. Web Developer modiphy - Baton Rouge, LA January 2005 to February 2010 Programming and design of database driven web sites written in PHP + MySQL. Dealing directly with clients. Providing customer support to clients. Administration of in-house network, Intranet and VPN. Administration of several shared hosting servers with hundreds of live sites on each. Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/blakerg