Social Media Consultant Social Media Consultant Social Media Consultant - Social Media Is Us Irvine, CA Creative, technically skilled Web Developer with a B.S. in Computer Science from the University of  California, Irvine. An adaptive learner, proficient in full-stack web development and digital marketing.Looking to apply my strong work ethic to become an important member of a web development team Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Social Media Consultant Social Media Is Us - Irvine, CA March 2016 to Present • Executed social media strategies for businesses with national brand names such as Gymboree Play and Music, and Eye Level Learning Centers.  • Partnered with clients to develop and optimize digital assets in promotion of key initiatives and increase their profits by at least 20%. Updated company websites in WordPress on a regular basis Web Developer Auspex Capital - Long Beach, CA June 2007 to June 2010 • Built the company's website based on requirements provided by the management team  • Programmed email newsletters to support marketing efforts of the small business.  • Responsible for site organization and quality assurance. Web Developer LinkValu - Mission Viejo, CA August 2005 to March 2007 Created the front end for multiple websites in the life insurance industry. Wrote clean and efficient  code using industry standard HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL and Classic ASP.  • Maintained quality and functionality of existing websites, on behalf of the company. Ensured all  features were tested and supported across different web browsers.  • Collaborated with the marketing team to create marketing emails, to be sent out to thousands of potential customers. Often tracked the click-thru rate and efficacy of the marketing efforts. Web Consultant Art Rojas Design - Orange, CA February 2003 to August 2005 • Developed and maintained websites for local clients in and around Orange County.  • Created electronic backups of client websites to prevent loss of information. HTML Programmer PlaygroundsOfTheWorld.com - Laguna Beach, CA July 2001 to February 2003 Laguna Beach, CA  • Programmed web pages that used embedded audio/video content, to serve as travel guides for popular resorts, cruise lines and destinations. Sandals Resorts, Holland America Cruise Lines, Air  Jamaica, Marriott Resorts were some of the brand names advertised.  • Coordinated with graphic designers and the web hosting company. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA - Irvine, CA June 1998 to June 2001 Skills Visual studio, API, Application software, Firebase, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, JSON, HTML5, Marketing, Digital marketing, Photoshop, Adobe photoshop, Twitter, Social Media, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, Graphic Design, React.js (1 year) Links http://www.sarikagoyal.tech/ Certifications/Licenses HootSuite Social Media Certified Professional January 2018 to Present Full Stack Developer - UCI, Coding Bootcamp February 2019 to July 2019 An intensive 24-week long boot camp dedicated to designing and building web applications. Skills learnt are HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Firebase, Node Js, MySQL, MongoDB, Express, React JS and React Hooks 