Senior ColdFusion Application Developer Senior ColdFusion Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior ColdFusion Application Developer - Sedgwick Claim Services Inc New Port Richey, FL Work Experience Senior ColdFusion Application Developer Sedgwick Claim Services Inc October 2018 to Present • Programmed the Two-Way Text application allowing hundreds of clients in the US and Canada to receive and reply to text messages sent to their employees through the web application.  • Provide application support and programming for the company's flagship applications, ADA Link and Leave Link, which allows thousands of nationwide employees to file Disability, ADA and FMLA claims online. Freelance Software Developer Coast Guard February 2018 to Present ColdFusion/Full Stack Application Development  • Design, develop, program and maintain FloatPlanWizard.com. A mobile web application serving thousands of users that electronically prepares, delivers, and monitors a US Coast Guard certified Float Plan. Project Lead, Guitar Center Syntel Inc June 2009 to February 2018 • Charged to provide project leadership and mentoring for offshore Web Development team.  • Manage 40+ enterprise web sites, perform advanced ColdFusion programming, server administration, business analysis, application design/development, and project management.  • Managed/Lead development for used gear intake application, which processes an average of 2,000 street buys daily, resulting in upward of $2M in sales weekly.  • Administer 25 Private Label websites that increased sales and improved customer service and satisfaction.  • Lead development of CMS for private label sites allowing site owners to manage all content from one centralized location.  • Generate several thousand sales weekly through programming for the sale of Platinum items and additional sales through clearance item applications, providing national visibility to local listings.  • Increase significantly the visibility and bookings through Spearhead development of corporate and local versions of Rehearsal Studio.  • Lead the development of CMS for Guitar Studio sites, providing site administrators with streamlined, automated, and centralized processes.  • Create and program multiple business reports; streamlining and automating the prior paper process, resulting in increased productivity and accuracy. Internet Systems Administrator / Senior ColdFusion Developer Guitar Center Inc - Westlake Village, CA June 2003 to June 2009 Westlake Village, CA 6/03 - 6/09  Country's largest musical instruments retailer  Internet Systems Administrator / Senior ColdFusion Developer  • Provided ColdFusion programming, ColdFusion Administration, Windows 2003 Server administration, Load Balancing, site maintenance, database management, site-architecture, and project leadership for the company's 20+ high traffic e-commerce, enterprise, and private label websites.  • Generated more revenue than the firm's 220 retail locations through transforming guitarcenter.com from brochure ware to e-commerce.  • Spearheaded web portal development; automated department tasks and distributed company information/reports electronically, saving 100's of man-hours per week and decreasing payroll expenses.  • Programmed Facility Management Application, streamlining repairs and maintenance administration.  • Created comprehensive sales analysis and payout online reports, centralizing to one location.  • Designed and programmed E-Commerce application, providing the charitable department a resource for generating funds through the sale of musical memorabilia.  • Created the Instrument Rental Application, generating thousands of online rentals per year. musicarts.com  • Programmed web application for the sale of used musical instruments and gear, generating millions of dollars in sales annually.  • Supported Human Resources, programming the Training Certification Tracking application, utilized by 8,000 sales associates and the employment pre-assessment test, decreasing the hiring process time. Web Developer / Multimedia Producer Wald Media Productions - Culver City, CA 2001 to 2003 Culver City, CA 2001-2003  Firm provided web development and multimedia services to corporate and entertainment companies.  Web Developer / Multimedia Producer  • Launched multimedia company, managing all aspects of business administration including operations including operations, finance and budgeting, business development, and client relations.  • Developed international e-commerce capabilities for a major Central American music producer, resulting in a 25% increase in music sales. Web Developer Americana Financial - New York, NY 2001 to 2002 Provided design, programming, and project leadership for corporate and company web sites. Education Liberal Arts Rockland Community College Diploma in Television Broadcasting Center for the Media Arts Skills Ajax, Coldfusion, Css, Web services, Devops, Cms, Api, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Oop, Svn, Xml, Sdlc, Mysql, Sql, Html5, Soap, Rest, jquery, HTML, Sql Server Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/larry-wald-coldfusion http://GuitarCenter.com Additional Information KEY TECHNICAL SKILLS  ColdFusion, SOAP, REST, SQL, JavaScript, MYSQL, XML, SDLC, AJAX, JSON, OOP, Web Services, API Development, jQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS, JIRA, MURA CMS, DevOps, SVN    ADDITIONAL SKILLS  Site Administration, Program Development, Project Management, Leadership, Offshore Management, Customer Service, Increasing Revenues, Process Improvement, Automation, Troubleshooting    Sample URL's: GuitarCenter.com FloatPlanWizard.com ADALink.com LeaveLink.com