Senior Application Developer Senior Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Schenectady, NY I have been in the technology field for over 20 years with a concentration in web/software development I have worked in several areas of development including project management, database design, documenting functional specifications, coordinating with third-party vendors, client meetings and web site testing.     Over the years I have had the opportunity to work with numerous clients, each with various challenges and requirements. I have been very committed to customer relationships and attention to detail that exceeds expectations. I have always gone above and beyond my job duties and will do whatever I can to support the company I work for. Work Experience Senior Application Developer New York Credit Union Association - Albany, NY January 2011 to Present Design and code new programs and maintain/modify existing applications for external credit union staff as well as internal staff. Investigate application errors, define problems, debug applications, test results and implement  changes. Continuously define areas within the organization that can be automated to ultimately create more  efficient processes. Assist in training and directing the work of peers. Assist users in solving system problems and train users in system operations. Manage and maintain affiliate websites (4) as well as the web servers. Assist in  all areas of the IT department when needed. Lead Web Developer Albany, NY August 2006 to January 2011 Supported 22 electronic bidding system websites across the United States as well as worked with our  internal customer support staff. Responsible for providing a centralized platform for each system to share  code, eliminating the need to maintain each system separately. Continuously provided new ideas to make the systems more competitive in the marketplace. Continuously evaluated and provided upper  management with proposed solutions to improve upon old code to enhance performance and maximize on  optimization.    Responsible for detailed documentation of current and new processes for all systems. Conduct thorough  testing prior to upgrades going live into the production environment. Oversee the work flow for all  developers and the QA specialist to make sure projects are done efficiently and in a timely manner. Senior Software Developer Focus Computers - Glenville, NY March 2006 to July 2006 Worked with the CEO to implement what he envisioned for an accounting software package that was to be  marketed specifically to small businesses. Senior Web Programmer/ Developer Light and Power Communications - Troy, NY November 1999 to March 2006 Worked closely with the department managers to research new technologies and set-up Light & Power's  remote webservers collocation project. Resident expert in ASP and HTML development. Development of multiple web administration pages using SQL Server for customers to maintain their own data on their  sites. Work with the team and client to keep on top of project changes and deadline targets. Made sure  deadlines were met on time and within scope and budget.    Manage and continue to improve upon our .NET email system used by multiple clients giving them the ability to send thousands of emails using custom HTML templates.    Manage and maintain multiple web servers, configure IIS (5.0 & 6.0) and set up new web sites.  Computer Programming Languages: Education B.A. in Computer Science University at Albany A.A.S in Business Programming and Systems Schenectady County Community College Skills Programming (10+ years), Active Directory, testing, access, HTML, Web Development (10+ years) Additional Information Skills C#, VB, ASP.NET, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JSON    Database:  SQL Server 2005-2016, Access, SyBase    Operating Systems and Platforms:  Windows 2008-2016 Server    Software Applications:  Visual Studio 2005-2015, Microsoft Suite, IIS 5-8.5, Adobe, Crystal Reports, Business Objects,  Acunetix, VSphere, Encompass (Loan Originating Software), Visual SourceSafe, Postman