Full Stack Technical Architect Full Stack Technical Architect Full Stack Technical Architect Clearlake, CA Experienced full stack web developer with many years of combined experience in all areas of web development - including front-end, full-stack, REST APIs, database, and backend. Highly skilled in developing front-end Web UI modules using JavaScript frameworks like Angular and React. Comprehensive full-stack development experience in Node.js, Ruby on Rails, PHP, Salesforce (Apex/Visualforce), Java, and C/C++; with extensive experience in multiple SQL/NoSQL databases including MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Redis, etc. Development areas include consumer-facing web applications; ecommerce; FinTech; HealthTech; Salesforce customization, and mobile web app development. US Citizen; immediately available for work. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Technical Architect Kaiser Permanente IT - Pleasanton, CA August 2018 to June 2019 Provided architectural direction and developed microservice components for a Node.js-based backend (hosted on IBM's Bluemix cloud platform), Angular4/ Angular7/React frontend applications, for the Employer and Broker Self-Service portal. Wrote component-based tests to achieve 75% minimum code coverage. Debugged and resolved difficult production and other related issues found during the QA life cycle. Manager/Senior Full-Stack Developer Terafina - Fremont, CA August 2013 to August 2018 Mentored, trained and managed a team of Salesforce backend and front-end/UI developers. Developed multiple REST services and HTML5-compliant Angular JS and Backbone.js based metadata-driven Financial Services applications, hosted on the Salesforce.com cloud platform. Architected new systems to improve testability, performance, configurability, and generally improve the overall user experience. Development included tools such as: Webpack, Babel, ES6, Grunt, Gulp, Node.js, Less and SASS/SCSS for enhanced configurability. Wrote next-gen product prototypes in React. Developed Visualforce pages, components, Apex controllers, custom objects & custom settings. Wrote consolidated Apex code for all JavaScript Remoting (Ajax) requests/responses. Managed all packaging aspects for applications published to Salesforce's AppExchange. Senior Salesforce front-end developer Philips - Andover, MA October 2014 to March 2015 part-time/remote position) Utilized jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Visualforce, and Apex to help develop Phillips' new EMS customer support system hosted on the Salesforce.com cloud. Web UI Developer FireEye, Inc - Milpitas, CA March 2014 to April 2014 Senior UI developer (part-time/temporary). Developed front-end Web UI modules using Bootstrap, jQuery, and Backbone.js/Chaplin in a Ruby on Rails development environment; deployed applications onto Unix based appliances. Senior Mobile Web Developer Panasonic - Cupertino, CA March 2013 to August 2013 Developed/maintained HTML5/CSS3/Bootstrap, Backbone.js and backend REST server code for healthcare-related applications; deployed/tested apps on iOS and Android devices w/PhoneGap/Cordova integration; maintained/deployed PHP REST server code on Amazon cloud instances. Senior Software Engineer Accenture - San Jose, CA July 2012 to April 2013 Wrote mobile-friendly health risk assessment and SPA applications using HTML5/CSS3/ Bootstrap, Backbone.js and Ruby on Rails backend REST server. Migrated project database from MySQL to PostgreSQL; wrote frontend Ajax code and backend model code; wrote general frontend CSS/JavaScript and was responsible for all UI related changes including migrating obtrusive JavaScript; refactored model code for has_many relationships; assisted with other general database design related issues and associated migrations; worked with 3rd party APIs for mobile and website integration; migrated changes between various Git branches; worked on all other general site maintenance/development requirements as required; created multiple prototypes from wireframe mockups; updated project configurations for Heroku cloud deployment; created wireframes and interactive prototypes using Bootstrap as a rapid prototyping tool and integrated it with a SalesForce cloud backend. Interacted with the Azure platform. Researched some possible benefits of using Python over Ruby on Rails. Senior JavaScript Developer Nutanix - San Jose, CA November 2012 to December 2012 part-time)  Developed HTML5/CSS3/Bootstrap, RequireJS, and Backbone.js based Single Page Application utilizing CORS as the Ajax communication layer to a J2EE backend. Lead Developer Spotlikes.com/LikeList.com - Sunnyvale, CA June 2009 to July 2012 Performed all of the following tasks in a team leadership/mentor role of up to 10 other engineers: Team lead engineer on iOS mobile app using Objective-C. Wrote/maintained API interface (REST services) for mobile development efforts. Wrote Ruby on Rails authentication layer and associated REST server API code [integrating with other third-party social network SDK's and API's], then later converted said Ruby on Rails code to PHP [using Zend framework's OAuth components]. Converted PHP 4 library modules to PHP 5 standards. Wrote authentication/API layer access to other social networks such as Facebook, Twitter, Foursquare, Gowalla, Google plus, LinkedIn and others for importing of friends, likes, checkins, etc. Wrote search API code and associated REST server. Wrote data services REST access layer (using Slim framework) for buffer between the web application/mobile and database/backend Sphinx search engine. Maintained/updated native iOS iPhone app to include 'spot it' (picture capture and commenting on an item [product, service] at a given location) functionality. Created jQuery Mobile PhoneGap based application code for a mobile solution for other mobile platforms, including Android, Blackberry, WebOS and Windows mobile, etc. Maintained jQuery Ajax library and frontend codebase to access backend data services via JSONP calls. Debug/fix browser incompatibility issues. Built/deployed iOS apps for both internal and App Store distribution. Development on both Mac and PC platforms. Initial creation of PHPUnit based test-driven development. Optimized MySQL based database queries and stored procedures. Product Release Management tasks, including branching, merging and tracking down issues to the source of insertion in SVN codebase. Managed Bugzilla tickets and worked with QA department for scheduling of releases/code pushes to QA environment. Created mechanism to store mobile auth_tokens in a Redis backed store. Backup Scrum team leader, including resource and project timeline scheduling task management. Also lead Front-end/Backend PHP Developer on this 'local search' project which integrated with various social networking sites including Facebook (single sign on, etc.) using Ajax/DHTML Web 2.0 technologies, backend PHP MVC framework (CodeIgniter), and MySQL data access layers. Responsible for the core architecture of the system and reviewing all code submitted by junior developers. Worked hand in hand with development manager to assign tasks, follow up on coding requirements, and manage bug fixes. Integrate with the QA team. Chief architect on the core integration with Facebook data access to migrate a users' friends and liked businesses to our system upon login. Responsible for translating wireframes to the physical implementation of the site using standards compliant code. Made recommendations for the handling of sessions across load balanced servers. Migrated some core API functionality to REST services using Ruby on Rails. Deployed production code to nginx servers hosted in the AWS cloud. Senior LAMP Web Developer Haggin Marketing - Mill Valley, CA March 2009 to May 2009 Senior Test Driven Development J2EE Engineer (Oracle/Spring/ Hibernate), Presence-Tech, Inc. Provo, UT Nov. 2006 - Feb 2007; Senior J2EE Engineer (JUnit/Selenium/Hibernate/Oracle/Linux), Overstock.com, Salt Lake City, Utah. Aug. 2006 - Nov 2006; Analytics Implementation Engineer, Omniture, Orem, Utah. 2004 - 2005; Chief PHP Web Engineer/ Web Development Team Leader/Senior Java Software Engineer, Digital Technology, Intl., Springville, UT. 1999 - 2004; Manager/Senior Software Engineer, 2021.Interactive, LLC Provo UT. 1997 - 1999; Lab Manager/Software Engineer II, Novell Inc., Provo UT. 1994 -1997; Software Engineer, SOS Computer Systems, Inc., Orem, UT. 1990 - 1994. Lead Developer State of California - Sacramento, CA October 2007 to April 2009 Environmental Protection Agency - Air Resources Board (arb.ca.gov). Implemented Prop 1B Bonds Accountability web site using the CakePHP MVC framework and Ajax libraries such as Prototype and jQuery. Implemented customer approved templates using CSS/DHTML and Ajax calls for every page submit and for some list change handlers to improve the user experience and increase the response time of the pages. Wrote database-level views or queries as required to create the dynamic content requested by the pages, creating public API's for access to this content. Responsible for the major design decisions regarding the development platform and database architecture utilizing convention over configuration to enable efficient development and ease of future maintenance. Mentored/trained team members in new web development methodologies. Deployed/maintained code on Linux servers using MySQL databases. Identified SQL query bottlenecks and improved performance by adding indexes, refactoring views, etc. Senior Web Developer Bloosky.com - Orem, UT May 2007 to October 2007 Worked on all aspects of the Bloosky.com, EMS Client Admin (internal) and the advancedinternettraining.com web sites. Lead developer responsible for all upgrades/ enhancements to these customer-centric web sites. Site modifications included MySQL database changes, PHP code for both database access and content generation, HTML DOM manipulation, and some CSS layout modifications. Researched and developed Ruby on Rails proof of concept projects & techniques for use in the EMS system. Deployed/ maintained the system on Linux servers and MySQL databases. Senior Web Developer EvenFinance, Inc - San Francisco, CA 2006 to 2007 Developed a financial services web application. Wrote application code using CakePHP & CodeIgniter (RoR-type MVC frameworks), Smarty templates, CSS layouts, HTML DOM scripting, Captcha, l10n and i18n support, and Ajax libraries including Prototype and Scriptaculous. Responsible for writing the Experian Authentication Services integration layer and many other required backend support modules. Senior LAMP Programmer OnForce, Inc - New York, NY 2005 to 2006 Responsible for key features of the OnForce.com customer service center web portal, including the Preferred Provider Network, Work Order routing, Client Command Center and Online Office for providers. Used PHP5 and the PDFGEN library to dynamically generate PDFs; wrote several Ajax calls, CSS/XHTML layouts and Smarty templating. Implemented client approved templates using CSS/DHTML and DOM scripting technologies, coupled with content generated dynamically through PHP and MySQL. Limited C# exposure/experience. Developed/deployed product on Linux servers w/MySQL databases. Initial exposure to the SalesForce.com APIs. Education M.S. in Computer Science Brigham Young University - Provo, UT 1991 to 1994 B.S. in Computer Information Systems Humboldt State University - Arcata, CA May 1990 Skills C (7 years), C++ (3 years), Docker (Less than 1 year), Git (7 years), Javascript (10+ years), Node.js (2 years), Redux (Less than 1 year), Jenkins (Less than 1 year), memcache (3 years), Php (7 years), Python (Less than 1 year), Ruby (3 years), Rails (3 years), Subversion (4 years), Backbone (3 years), Objective-c (1 year), Phonegap (2 years), Mysql (10+ years), Oracle (2 years), Postgresql (3 years), React (Less than 1 year), Angular (1 year), Node (2 years), Java (7 years), Jquery (5 years), Angular.js (4 years) Links https://github.com/rmulder Awards Magna Cum Laude 1990-06 Graduated with honors from Humboldt State University (Computer Information Systems) Additional Information Skills Languages: JavaScript, Apex, Ruby/Rails, PHP, SQL, Java, Objective-C/C/C++, Python  JS Libs: React; Node.js; Angular; Redux; jQuery; Backbone.js; PhoneGap  Operating Systems: Mac OS/X, Unix/Linux, Windows  Databases: PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Redis, MySQL, Memcache, MS SQL, Oracle  Other Tools: Jasmine/Chai; Docker; Circle-CI; Jenkins; Selenium  Version Control Software: Git, Subversion, CVS, Perforce