Software Developer I Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> I Database Developer Dallas-Fort Worth, TX Diligent developer with over 9 years of experience designing and developing a variety of front and back-end systems. Seeking opportunity to leverage my diverse skills and experience in ETL, Business Intelligence and Data Analysis. Work Experience Software Developer I The Amynta Group - Bedford, TX June 2015 to Present Help create custom business web application called 360Central for one of our enterprise level customers, utilizing ASP.NET MVC and C#. Create and build custom HTML email templates for business customers using standard web and design practices. Data Analyst ATS Fleet Services - Carrollton, TX September 2014 to February 2015 Created custom VBA macros and scripts to ensure the formatting of incoming files were correctly processed. Used the ETL process to support the development of complex cases that involve high dollar amounts, that met criteria for various toll authorities. Associate Network Analyst Windstream - Little Rock, AR January 2013 to June 2014 Provided telephone support to technicians related to networking or connectivity issues for customers.  Configuration of wide and local area networks (WAN & LAN) of Cisco routers and switches remotely. Freelance Web/Graphic Brush Island Tee's - Little Rock, AR March 2012 to December 2012 Designed marketing and communication collateral for use across multiple channels, including print, digital, web utilizing Adobe Creative Suite. Collaborated with team to produce consistent, high-quality professional designs from concept to completion. ETL Developer Fidelity Information Services FIS - Little Rock, AR August 2011 to December 2011 Developed data warehouse process models, including sourcing, extraction, transformation, and loading. Designed, implemented, and operated comprehensive data warehouse systems to balance optimization of data access with batch loading. Application Developer Wilson & Associates - Little Rock, AR October 2008 to August 2011 Developed, supported, maintained and tested software applications that support business units or supporting functions. Utilized the Microsoft .NET Framework including ASP.NET, C#, and SQL Server to modernize application infrastructure. Education High school or equivalent in Computer Programming University of Arkansas - Pulaski Technical College - Pulaski, AR August 1997 to December 1998 Skills Software development, Data analysis, Database, Sql, Database development, Javascript, Sql Server, C#, Oracle Database, ETL, Sql Server, Oracle Database Additional Information SKILLS  Web Development Database Development  Software Development Business Reporting  Data Analysis SQL Programming