Freelance Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Developer - ShareItCamp.com Brooklyn, NY Work Experience Freelance Developer ShareItCamp.com Present Utilizing skills learned over the last decade plus in the industry to help  businesses create, maintain and improve their web presence.  ShareItCamp.com  * Platform allowing users to earn rewards for sharing selected content.  * Built using Slim framework and Bootstrap  * Utilized GIT for version control  * Helped raise over $40k for hurricane disaster relief  * Assisted in raising over $10k for early childhood school improvement Software Developer Sony January 2013 to May 2017 Helped modernize legacy application of company into one which was  eventually bought out by Sony.  • Heavily utilized Amazon web services to improve performance  ? Utilized SQS to store messages as a replacement for ActiveMQ.  ? Utilized CloudSearch for meta-data searches as a replacement for painfully  slow and taxing raw SQL queries.  ? Utilized S3 for asset storage and retrieval as a replacement for ftp and file  system storage.  • Assisted in breaking down monolithic application written in Zend  Framework.  • Wrote restful services using Python for integration between legacy and new systems.  • Utilized Agile and Scrum methodologies.  • Wrote tech designs for peer review before project planning and eventually  task planning.  • Wrote Python scripts using AWS libraries for tasks such as asset (wav, tif  etc) ingestion and delivery  • Wrote PHP unit and Pytest to unit test with Python code having nearly  100% code coverage.  • Utilized GIT's branching and forking capabilities for version control on more than 20 code repositories.  • Wrote cron jobs for tasks ranging from data export, data retrieval, reporting with some having their output be Slack channels.  • Diagrammed legacy workflows for better understanding between those  with legacy knowledge and new hires.  • Utilized JIRA for project management. NetGalley Developer September 2011 to October 2012 Helped rewrite entire NetGalley.com application in Symphony Framework.  NetGalley is used by some of the top publishers in the U.S. and U.K.  • Assisted lead developer in migrating data from old PostgreSQL database, containing over 300 tables, parring them down to 22.  • Utilized GIT for version control in new application, migrating away from Subversion.  • Successfully completed numerous releases using Unfuddle for project  management. Access Intelligence Contract Web Developer December 2009 to February 2010 Assembled e-commerce store for Dorland Health using php-based CMS  and shopping cart - store.dorlandhealth.com.  • Implemented shopping cart for the future Communications Technology  magazine store.  • Maintained code using RCS version control. Contract Web Developer Clear Channel September 2009 to November 2009 Utilized PHP, jQuery, Smarty to create templates to be used in redesign of all Clear-Channel sites (over 900+ domains including z100.com)  • Created custom javascript objects for scrolling different pieces of content  as well as a "show more" object that retrieved and presented additional  content using ajax. Contract Web Developer Walter Cameron Advertising July 2009 to August 2009 • Utilized PHP5, jQuery and CSS to build custom CMS tool allowing user to create client-facing landing pages.  • Created feature which allowed users to create any number of questions as well as determine the kind of form element(s) the question would use (ie.  check-box, radio button, text-field).  ? User could easily add as many options to a given question as they  desired.  ? Reporting area stored the responses to all questions and tied them back  to the particular landing page which generated the questions  • Created admin back-end for client promotion, allowing users to create, manage and track custom gift certificates which could be applied to future  purchases.  • Utilized 3rd party PHP class to print pdf version of bios pulled from client's  database. Contract Web Developer Dotglu (Advertising) June 2009 to June 2009 • Created mini-site for the Ad Council's AdoptUsKids campaign  • Utilized jQuery, PHP5 and CSS to create e-card application allowing users  to select e-cards, enter a personalized message and send via email  • Created media page showcasing the print, television and radio executions  of the campaign  • Ensured consistent functionality across multiple browsers/broswer  versions including IE 6, 7 and 8, Firefox, Safari and Opera. Contract Web Developer North Point Solutions December 2008 to March 2009 • Worked on PHP based CMS called EzPublish for development phase of new Car and Driver website.  • Added functionality to CMS using Ezpublish's PHP based API by extending their existing classes to create additional data fields (beyond  the standard text and drop-down field that were available).  • Successfully implemented CMS' Worklow feature which allowed  publishing of content to be scheduled via cronjobs. Web Developer Paragon Sports - New York, NY March 2006 to August 2008 Created Java based programs used in critical day-to-day operations such as those used to sync web and store inventory and programs used to send  data to key vendors (ie. North Face, Arcteryx, Burton etc).  • Installed shell scripts into cron table to manage and schedule their  deployment  • Utilized JavaScript and XHTML to implement 3rd party tools such as Power Reviews review software and Fluid's product display tool - similar  to Scene7's.  • Completed all the back-end implementation requirements for these 3rd  party tools including:  o nightly cron jobs to pull the necessary product data  o jobs to move and unzip files sent nightly by various 3rd parties  • Implemented and managed tracking using Omniture's web analytics  software.  • Prepared, deployed and tracked email promotions using Email Labs  software reaching over 100,000 recipients Contract Web Developer Dotglu (Advertising) January 2006 to February 2006 • Created SQL stored procedures and functions to manage responses to promotion  • Created XHTML emails and ASP coded landing pages from mock-ups for Jergen's email campaign Contract Web Developer Communications Plus 2005 to December 2005 • Programmed administrative pages of large e-commerce site using ASP, JavaScript and SQL  • Created a web based application to allow upload of flat files to database Web Developer Integrated Direct - Mineola, NY July 2003 to October 2005 Created and administered data management system using PHP and MYSQL for clients and staff; system allowed for uploading, exporting and  reporting on leads  • Built and maintained e-commerce functionality for various clients using  PHP, MYSQL, Miva Merchant, Authorize.net and PayPal  • Coded back-end functionality for client projects including database  functionality for websites housed on Apache and Windows servers using  MYSQL, MSSQL and Access.  • Utilized Flash MX to create agency's website Web Associate PCF Funding - Jericho, NY March 2002 to June 2003 • Coded and managed the design of original company website using ASP, JavaScript and CSS  • Managed online marketing efforts on search engines such as Google, Yahoo/Overture  • Built and updated content on company's three main websites and intranet  • Monitored and created reports on online marketing efforts using  Nettracker web analytics software. Education Syracuse University - Syracuse, NY 2002 Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, ORM Links https://github.com/msamuels