Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-stack developer with 13+ years experience crafting performant, well-tested, scalable code. Engaged in the local development community, eager to learn new technologies, and ready to solve any programming problem. Chicago, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Freelance - Chicago, IL October 2017 to Present • Worked directly with clients to identify project requirements and goals.  • Managed client projects through all stages.  • Completed client projects in Ruby on Rails and related technologies  • Responsible for business administration including all sales proposals and invoicing.  • Setup AWS S3 buckets to host files  • Setup Heroku to host applications  • Test code using Cucumber and RSpec Technical Director Tech While Black - Chicago, IL February 2014 to October 2017 • Built online community with Ruby on Rails, JSON, PostgreSQL.  • Spearheaded website redevelopment project that increased user registration 38%.  • Responsible for recruitment, evaluation, hiring, and coaching of team  • Setup AWS S3 buckets to host files  • Setup Heroku to host applications  • Test code using Cucumber and RSpec Junior Instructor Dev Bootcamp - Chicago, IL April 2014 to July 2014 • Developed lessons according to Ruby on Rails and web development curriculum.  • Lectured on assigned topics to enhance student knowledge.  • Performed live-coding demos to illustrate concepts being taught.  • Provided assistance to students to guide them in completing challenges.  • Tutored students to provide one-on-one coaching and support.  • Partnered with other staff on company initiatives, best practices, and goals. Lead PHP Developer New Home Star - Elmhurst, IL January 2013 to May 2013 • Developed custom content management system according to requirements  • Wrote custom script to integrate photo upload application   • Assisted with reviewing resumes and interviewing potential team candidates Quality Assurance Consultant CDW - Chicago, IL September 2011 to June 2012 • Developed test scripts using C# in LoadRunner;  • Directly responsible for maintaining master regression script;  • Collaborated as part of multiple location team to run weekly regression cycle; Web Developer Apex Website Services - Chicago, IL January 2006 to September 2011 • Worked directly with clients to identify project requirements and goals.  • Managed client projects through all stages.  • Completed client projects in Ruby on Rails, Wordpress, and related technologies Education Associate in Computer Information Systems city of chicago- truman college - Chicago, IL Skills Javascript, Jquery, ruby on rails, AWS, Heroku, Version Control, Test Driven Development, React, CSS3, HTML 5, Agile, PHP