VP VP Technical Leader and Manager – Skilled Architect and Implementer Chattanooga, TN Technical Leader and Manager - Skilled Architect and Implementer    Analytical, highly adaptable professional with extensive experience in solutions architecture, technology implementations, project management, technical support, quality assurance, internet/network security, SDLC, process creation, evaluation and implementations aimed at improving quality and efficiency.  Skilled in aligning end-user needs with long-term resolutions to complex IT challenges. Track record of success.  Adept in delivering complex enterprise solutions from concept to completion - projects portfolio ranging up to $5 million.  Hands-on technology leader with a blend of business and technology competencies and expertise to navigate and influence C-level management across business and IT.  Accomplished communicator skilled in building and strengthening relationships across functions to drive cohesive, strategic operations.    CAREER ACCOMPLISHMENTS  • Launched process improvements and implemented systems generating critical decision-making metrics for SCE group.  • Researched, evaluated and on-boarded 10 new partners in 2018 for the delivery of technical services and continued that trend into 2019.  • Managed highly diverse high achieving technical teams across multiple project life cycles.  • Increased the team utilization range from 20-30% to 60-75% range.  • Revitalized project management processes using ITIL and PMP standards.  • Recognized for delivering exceptional customer service on Lotus Notes/Domino platform at IBM through responsive interfacing, problem assessment, prompt determination of corrective actions and comprehensive follow-up.  • Received award for exceptional work performance and promoted to progressively challenging positions at IBM. Work Experience VP THE SCE GROUP - Fort Lee, NJ 2008 to Present Service Delivery + Various Architect and Implementation Responsibilities (Remote Position)  Direct and participate in concurrent technology projects, including cloud infrastructure deployment, systems and network engineering, enterprise application development, and IT Security. Manage IT teams delivering complex enterprise solutions ensuring exceptional project delivery for internal and external clients. Provide technology consulting, assess new and emerging technologies against evolving business requirements and industry standards to establish partnerships.  Launch infrastructure initiatives, lead server and storage implementations, consolidation and optimization projects, high-performance computing projects, oversee monitoring and maintenance of servers, networks, and cybersecurity. Managed a team of 8 direct reports. Hire, train and mentor high performing technical teams.  • Serve as both a project and technical escalation point to the technical team in the field delivering projects and services. Assist in issue resolution, troubleshooting, system procurement and setup, customer escalation communication and tracking.  • Review and approve proposed architecture designs for implementation. Assist, at times, with the implementation of solutions for high profile accounts.  • Elevated the IT department to an enterprise level IT organization by starting and expanding the technology practices including consultative services, technical implementations and integrations with a variety of platforms and products like RSA Adaptive Authentication, Ping Identity Platform, Microsoft, Okta, and Pinn Technologies.  • Developed and implemented processes for system and network security focusing on protecting company personnel, data and assets adhering to industry best practices, social engineering, intrusion detection, and intrusion prevention.  • Established new processes and procedures streamlining business operations improving productivity and efficiency of people, process and systems resulting in improved metrics.  • Chaired the AWS infrastructure committee establishing testing and learning lab, providing pre-and post-sale support to the sales division through technical demos and technology POC's as requested.  • Consistently achieved department annual revenue goal of up to $4 million.  • Evaluate, maintain and administer key business operations applications including Salesforce, LastPass, AutoTask (PSA), Office365, and RingCentral ensuring 100% availability for seamless business operations for all employees.  • Collaborate with CEO and COO for continuous evaluation of policies and procedures focussing on security policies, management and operational procedures and overall guidelines for the grown enterprise.  • Deliver elite customer service through responsive interfacing, problem assessment, prompt determination of corrective actions and comprehensive follow-up.  • Integral participant in cross-functional troubleshooting of complex enterprise systems, software, applications and programs; deliver recommendations for solutions and improvements. L3 Developer, Messaging and Application Development IBM - Austin, TX 2007 to 2008 Detailed experience can be furnished upon request. Software Engineer, Application Development Team IBM - Austin, TX 2004 to 2007 Detailed experience can be furnished upon request. Web Developer Sterling Testing Systems - New York, NY 2004 to 2004 Detailed experience can be furnished upon request. Coldfusion Developer Time Warner Cable - New York, NY 2003 to 2004 Detailed experience can be furnished upon request.    SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES  Operating Systems: Windows (Client / Server), Mac OS, *nix, iOS, Android  Programming Languages: Java, .NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, SQL, XML, REST, SOAP  Databases: MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle, Domino  Web Server: Apache, MS IIS, JBoss, WebLogic  Tools: MS Office Suite, Office 365, Adobe Suite, BPM Applications  Enterprise Solutions and skills:  LDAP/Active Directory, Cloud Architecture & Management,  Cybersecurity standards, strategies & Practices;  Network Products & Appliances (CA SSO, IBM ISAM, RSA Access Manager);  Web Application Firewalls Radware.  Install, Configure & Manage Office 365, Cylance,  eSentire, PointSharp,  Various MFA solutions, RSA Adaptive Authentication,  RSA Authentication Manager, Ping Identity (Access, Federate, PingOne, PingID). Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - New York, NY Skills Outlook Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/bryanmgoldstein Certifications/Licenses CISSP November 2012 to Present CISSP from ISC2