Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Application Developer Manitou Springs, CO To work in a challenging environment where my skills in application development, web api creation and user-interface development can be used to create dynamic applications in a multi-tier environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer Progressive Insurance - Colorado Springs, CO May 2016 to Present Primary responsibility is to maintain code responsible for processing claims information and translating that information into a driver's risk assessment to determine rates. I developed several web applications including MVC web applications, WebAPIs, WPF applications and Web Forms applications. Responsibilities also included creating and deploying SQL stored procedures, writing new SSRS reports, and developing/maintaining home-grown utilities used by our group in the troubleshooting process. Programmer/Analyst USA Cycling - Colorado Springs, CO March 2011 to March 2016 Colorado Springs, Colorado  Worked as a web developer on the USA Cycling (National governing body for cycling) website. Completed a website re-design in 2011 that touched thousands of pre-existing pages throughout the site. Developed multiple applications including, new results and rankings system, new officials assignment tool, new photo gallery, updated content management system, updated event search and numerous other application improvements and enhancements. Assisted with administration of Amazon Web Services (AWS) that hosted the web infrastructure. Assisted with system administrative tasks on our local development environment. Freelance Web Developer McClintic Design Inc - Colorado Springs, CO July 2008 to March 2011 Colorado Springs, Colorado  Worked with clients located all over the United States to provide web development on custom projects for non-profit organizations and major corporate entities. These projects included member portals as well as marketing applications for gathering relevant data about a companies ad campaigns. Worked for several graphic design companies handling their outsourced web development projects. Programmer Analyst Hewlett Packard - Colorado Springs, CO January 2007 to July 2008 Colorado Springs, Colorado  Maintained a mission critical web application related to DirecTV's Seibel Enterprise. This application was use by HP personnel to run Siebel jobs that streamlined DirecTV's installation teams so that the most efficient route could be followed for a given days appointments. Web Product Specialist Stellent Inc - Colorado Springs, CO February 2003 to December 2006 Colorado Springs, Colorado  Worked as a second level system analyst where the primary function was customer escalations related to Stellent's Web server application. After issues had been worked by first level and had not come to resolution, issues were escalated for further investigation and possible development assistance. Web Developer Agilent Technologies - Colorado Springs, CO February 2002 to February 2003 Colorado Springs Colorado  Contracted through Volt Technical to Agilent Technologies to build custom web applications in order to view server issues and statistics. Applications were developed in PHP and MySQL on Linux and HP-UX servers. Lead Web Developer Compaq Computer Corporation - Colorado Springs, CO October 2000 to October 2001 Colorado Springs, Colorado  Contracted through EDP to Compaq Computer Corporation to develop web based applications for Business Critical Consultants positioned throughout the world. Developed Perl and ASP based applications for file management and security on Windows 2000 Servers. Software Engineer Alcatel Internetworking - Colorado Springs, CO February 2000 to September 2000 Colorado Springs, Colorado  Responsible for maintaining the site intranet, managing Oracle databases for testing purposes as well as general network maintenance and implementation. Responsible for implementing and configuring DSL equipment for hardware and software development. Technical Analyst Oracle Corporation - Colorado Springs, CO December 1998 to February 2000 Colorado Springs, Colorado  Responsible for working with clients to troubleshoot issues related to Oracle's Applications Server product in development and full production environments. Customers like Amazon.com, Sprint, and InfoSeek are dealt with on issues ranging from network problems to basic application server setup, design, and configuration for both intranet and internet use. Webmaster MCI Telecommunications - Colorado Springs, CO January 1997 to December 1998 Colorado Springs, Colorado  Responsible for maintaining several corporate intranet sites that served information to members of MCI's internal development group. Developed CGI based form processors and a documentation management system. Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Graphic Design Indiana University May 2002 Skills C# (3 years), PHP (10+ years), AngularJS (Less than 1 year), NodeJS (Less than 1 year), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), XML, MVC, Asp.Net (5 years), Web Design (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Adobe (10+ years), MongoDB (Less than 1 year), Amazon Web Services (3 years), Docker (Less than 1 year), Linux, .Net, TFS, Git (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.toddmcclintic.com