Senior PHP Developer Senior PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior PHP Developer - Liberty Mutual Palo Alto, LA, LA • 8+ years of versatile experience in Software Development Life Cycle. Analysis, design, development and implementation of software applications.  • Experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts and Model-View-Controller (MVC) based framework (ZEND FRAMEWORK, Cake PHP)  • Solid LAMP and WAMP stack development Experience.  • Experience in PHP 5, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, XML, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, AJAX and Content Management System, LAMP technology, web services, MVC Framework, cron management, Memcache and AWS cloud.  • Strong command in leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, D3.Js, React.Js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team.  • Experience in developing and maintaining websites and web applications using PHP, Lamp, web services, HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, JSON, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, CURL.  • Experience in Apache web server administration/configuration.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, DB2, JDBC, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  • Proficiency in Prototype, Module Design, User Interface Design, and Integration of PHP components.  • Experience in end-to-end lifecycle of PHP based implementations.  • Experience in enterprise web applications development in LAMP stack.  • Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL  • Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.    CORE TECH SKILLS  • PHP, Ruby on Rails, LAMP, WAMP, Zend Framework DevOps, Test Driven Development, AWS, Apache, GIT, Linux, Ubuntu, UNIX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, React.JS Backbone.js, D3.js, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.js, EXT-JS, Ajax, JQuery , MySQL. Work Experience Senior PHP Developer Liberty Mutual - Boston, MA August 2015 to Present Liberty mutual is a market leader in key insurance and investment product lines. Liberty Mutual continually seeks to better serve its customers by leveraging ongoing product innovation, knowledge and experience, a strong brand, a broad and powerful distribution system. The project deals with building up of a new web-site for Liberty Mutual Agents to assist Liberty Mutual customers. This web-site is used by Underwriters as well. Agents were given access to view their corresponding policy related documents.  Background Skills:  PHP, Ruby on Rails, WAMP, LAMP, Zend Framework , Apache, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, React.JS, JSON, Node.js, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, DevOps, Test Driven Development, AWS, Cassandra, D3.js, Oracle, CRUD, PL/SQL, MySql, MS-Sql, JDBC, MongoDB, Maven, Web Services, , SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, Subversion (SVN), Windows XP, Linux, UNIX, Ubuntu.    Accountabilities:  • Developed/Design the application using LAMP (Linux, Ubuntu, Apache, MySQL5 and PHP) architecture using Magento/Zend Framework.  • Development in PHP, Mysql, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Jquery, AJAX, REST web services in AWS cloud environment.  • Development using Laravel PHP Framework on LAMP stack  • Develop and maintain a lead aggregation system for marketing leads on various verticals using the CakePHP framework on a LAMP stack  • Definition and develop of database ER-model, architecture and services with MySql, Api services and data driven website implementing LAMP stack environment.  • Design and develop web application functionalities with Object Oriented design, MVC Zend framework and LAMP , PHP library.  • Used PHP, HTML and JavaScript webpage coding integrated with MySQL using Apache HTTP.  • Used all aspects of MySQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment.  • Used LAMP for hosting the word press application.  • Worked in the design and development phases as lead of the application using ROR framework.  • Developed and tested many features in an AGILE environment using Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS JavaScript, Bootstrap, Rspec, and Html.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  • Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  • Designed and developed the web applications and interface using Ruby, Rails, and AJAX.  • Wrote Ruby on Rails for deployments onto AWS and Continuous Integration provisioning.  • Developed web applications with W3C XHTML, HTML5, CSS3 standards and using Ruby on Rails, Git and Heroku.  • Created and modified code within a Ruby on Rails-based application  • Ruby on Rails-based platform via decoration, extensive use of view models, and additional customer based customizations  • Work in DevOps role deploying and maintaining cloud servers on AWS Elasticbeanstalkwithin a VPC  • Experience in Build/Release/Deployment/Operations (DevOps) / AWS Cloud  • Worked on DevOps tools like Jira/ Zephyr/ Selenium/ Robot/ Git/Stash/ Ansible/ Jenkins/ Reporting Automation.  • Provide consultation and development support services for engaging in a commercial grade search engine including Elastic search, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Test Driven Development (TDD), Behavior Driven Development (BDD), Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery.  • Developed with TDD by making use of Mockito, Harmcrest matchers, DBUnit and restAssured libraries for creation of integration and unit tests.  • Wrote ruby scripts for deployments onto AWS and Continuous Integration provisioning.  • Used on Linux Ubuntu platform (LAMP), Magento CMS, MySQL, REST web services, Git repository for this project.  • Worked on automotive content management system (CMS) which is built in PHP Sweet framework, used LAMP setup.  • Created several LAMP , PHP library class wrappers for using system binaries (cross platform, OS X & Linux, Ubuntu)  • Migrated a portion of the site and publishing system from ColdFusion+SQL on four off-site servers to PHP on two on-site LAMP servers.  • Code migration, db migration, and CentOS/Apache/PHP/MySQL installation and configuration.  • Use PHP to handle web forms  • Project design utilizes LAMP, PHP, MySQL, HMTL/CSS, jQuery  • Contract LAMP/WAMP stack application, offsite development and maintenance. PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, mixed with open source and third party imaging libraries. Eclipse/Mars, SVN, and MySQL databases.  • Development of custom modules using LAMP , PHP, AJAX, Javascript, Jquery, JSON  • Integration with client's ERP system using REST API through PHP calls  • LAMP , PHP-MySQL connectivity was used to fetch required data from the database.  • Developed user interfaces using LAMP , AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, HTML, and CSS.  • Developed front end using Bootstrap.js, Angular.js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, where back end is JAX-RS (Jersey) REST webservice.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as Angular.Js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap.js and Bootstrap.js  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Worked on implementing React.js flux based page updates using React fetchers, state mutating actions and stores. Extensively used React Flux implementations Alt and Redux and their architectures.  • Performed BDD tests for custom built widgets using Cucumber JS, Protractor JS, Karma, Mocha, Chai.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using HTML. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSON, Angularjs, and REST Services  • To limit page-loading delay and visible browser-server interaction used MVC framework with Ajax, JavaScript, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Node.js, D3.js.  • Designed Frontend with object oriented JavaScript Framework like angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Knockout.js, React.js/Redux, Spine.js, Ember.js, Require.js, Express.js, Pdf.js and Experience with client side templating like Handlebars.js.  • Developed application as Enterprise JavaScript using - AngularJs, NodeJs, Websockets, Jasmine, Karma, NPM, Gulp, Protractor etc.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used Rest, WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML.  • Designed and implemented the web application in Node.js, HTML from initial concept development to beta launch.  • Usage of version control repository Git, GitHub and JIRA  • Developed backend applications with Node.js, MongoDB, CouchDB, Oracle, Apache, Java.  • Worked on stored procedures, triggers, cursors, DB scheduler, PL/SQL, MySQL, JDBC, MS SQL Server.  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, using MS SQL Server. Senior PHP Developer IBM - Armonk, NY June 2014 to July 2015 The International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) is an American multinational technology and consulting corporation. IBM manufactures and markets computer hardware and software, and offers infrastructure, hosting and consulting services in areas ranging from mainframe computers to nanotechnology. Have developed code, written Unix scripting, defect fixing, JUnit and data manipulations with database and web services soap AXIS2 protocol. Gathering the requirements, preparing detail design documents, maintain release notes and giving releases and maintain the application and developed completely alone two modules.    Background Skills:  PHP, Ruby on Rails, WAMP, LAMP, Zend Framework, Apache, HTML, CSS, XML, React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, JSON, DevOps, Test Driven Development, AWS, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Jasmine, DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, Apache CXF, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum, Maven Linux, Ubuntu, UNIX.    Accountabilities:  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Ubuntu , Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Develop web applications within a LAMP (Linux, Ubuntu, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed the application on LAMP architecture.  • Migrated internal operational IT from a legacy mainframe to a custom web-based application platform using LAMP open-source tools.  • Strongly used LAMP (Linux-Apache-MySQL-PHP) platform.  • Development of custom layered navigation in categories pages using LAMP , PHP, AJAX and Jquery.  • Development of custom modules using LAMP, PHP and XML.  • Develop web application using LAMP, Magento, and PHP.  • Development of an interactive section to allow customers see earrings and piercings with the help of a virtual ear using LAMP , PHP / JS / AJAX / jQuery  • LAMP , PHP code refactoring and optimization according best practices.  • LAMP , PHP scripting to update catalog data and inventory data through a csv file.  • PHP backend development of custom modules CRUD  • Responsible for writing code in Object Oriented Programming supported by Ruby on Rails in Agile SCRUM environment.  • Ruby on Rails on Linux Ubuntu operating system, backed by Capistrano and PostgreSQL to automate and ease the deployment process on Phusion Passenger server. RJS, YAML and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to design web pages.  • Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming is used to develop client based features and applications.  • Used RSpec and Cucumber to create Test Driven Development (TDD) and Experience with all of the RVM, GEMS and libraries for this version of the Ruby/Rails.  • Implementation of Rails back-end for Case Manager on Linux, Ubuntu environment.  • Wrote backend programming in Ruby on Rails.  • Database modeling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  • Worked on Devops tools - Ansible, Chef, Docker, GIT, Vagrant, Puppet etc  • Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure.  • AWS IaaS & PaaS Cloud Engineering, DevOps, Web Development and Implementation project management experience working in collaboration environments demanding strong organizational, innovative, technical, and interpersonal skills.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Management of SaaS product development activities using variety of services such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Integration with client's ERP system to update prices through a LAMP , PHP / SOAP Web service call.  • LAMP , PHP Web Development for Back end scripting, Code refactoring, addition of new modules.  • Customizing HTML, CSS, Java script and Jquery scripts for UI/UX development according to client's needs  • Used all aspects of MYSQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), in LAMP environment.  • Fixing reported bugs.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by plugins or third part APIs under PHP, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery Technology.  • Customize product detail page so customers can buy the main product's extended warranty at the same time using PHP and AJAX.  • Customize Magento's PHP core checkout to equals the view as the USA website.  • Integrate Magento with SAP system to get live inventory data updates while customer is attempting to finish his order through a WS call using SOAP / PHP, LAMP.  • Implemented User interface (UI) entire application using HTML, CSS, Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, XML and XSLT.  • Developed user interface using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JSON and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Leading Frameworks Team like Ember, Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js & D3.js.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  • Used Spring Integration application, Activiti and Drools for flow and business logic.  • Designed SPA (Single page applications) in Flux architecture using React.js.  • Worked on variety of Frontend JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, BackboneJS, ReactJS, JQuery, JQuery UI and good knowledge in EmberJS.  • Implemented second level cache and query level cache in Hibernate using EHcache plug-in.  • Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML.  • Created client website running on a Node.js, using the Express framework, Jade, AngularJS and Backbone.js for front end MVC/templating.  • Worked on Securing WebSphere Portal with LDAP and DB2, WebSphere with LDAP.  • Created a library of visual components using Highcharts, D3, and jQuery for reporting results.  • Developed the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, and D3.JS.  • Develop application using Ember, AngularJS, Bootstrap, RequireJS.  • Developed frontend application using React.js, Express.js and Knockout. Js.  • Create web service component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML to interact with the middleware  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server.  • Developed bug management system for internal usage, using MySQL, Bootstrap, Backbone.js  • JUnit testing of Java classes to populate screens of online tax exemption forms which updated Oracle database under WebLogic web services.  • Build a new CRM application - Jhipster, Spring Boot, Angular.JS  • Use Spring Data to extract data from Neo4j and MongoDB databases  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application  • Developed Angular-JS unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Used JPA Hibernate and Spring to perform CRUD operation with MYSQL and perform persistence for Hazelcast cache.  • Have broken down the application into multiple angular modules for simplicity purposes and have done unit tests using Jasmine  • Co-developed a new tool on the Express nodeJS/backBone.js MVC platform that allows marketers to insert dynamic content in email sends based on location and temporal factors  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  • Agile and scrum process is used for tracking and developing the application.  • Executed project using waterfall model and practiced Agile Project Management Senior UI Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA March 2013 to May 2014 Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) is a diversified financial services company providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance through almost 6,000 stores, the internet and other distribution channels across North America and internationally. In Wells Fargo, I worked on an internal application called as "Home equity loan application". In this I specifically designed Verification page, Acknowledgement page and confirmation page. Apart from this I had to design the left panel which is included in all the pages and the display changes according to the page.    Background Skills:  Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos.    Accountabilities:  • Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  • Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  • Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS  • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI  • Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, Angularjs, JQuery and REST Services  • Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  • Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other javascript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  • Prepared statements are used for communication Sql database  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL. Web Developer Quest Diagnostics - Madison, NJ February 2012 to February 2013 Quest Diagnostics Incorporated is a corporation that provides clinical laboratory services. This system provides Patient Administration, Billing Management functions for the hospital. The major functions of Administration module are Allocating Registration, Recording Personal Details, assigning Insurance Details, Retrieving Patient history records from other hospitals. The Billing module allows Billing and receivables, looks into multiple modes of Payment and Rates Definition for Services.    Background Skills:  J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC , JavaScript, Struts , Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, SQL, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis, tcpmon, Ant, CVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix.    Accountabilities:  • Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  • Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  • Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  • Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  • Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  • Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  • Design, Development and testing of Java framework to transfer data from application to CIS and also from CIS to application.  • Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  • Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  • Wrote complex sql statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  • Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  • Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  • Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  • Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  • Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer. Software Developer MERCK & CO - Kenilworth, NJ July 2010 to January 2012 Merck & Co., Inc. is one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world. Merck discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of innovative products to improve human and animal health directly and through its joint ventures.    Background Skills:  J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Struts, Junit, log4j, JavaScript, HTML, WebSphere Application Server, Axis, WSAD, XML, XSLT, Xalan-j, Ant, SQL Server, SQL Query Analyzer, JProbe, CVS, OPPROX Reports, Windows'XP, Unix-IBM AIX.    Accountabilities:  • Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  • Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  • Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  • Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  • Generic Tree Navigation control).  • Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  • Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  • Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  • Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  • Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  • Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  • Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  • Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  • Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  • Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  • Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  • Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  • Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  • Development of GUI using AWT  • Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  • Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  • Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application. UI Developer Tech Mahindra March 2009 to June 2010 NSM Automation: NSM (National SIM Manager) allows for ordering and preloading of SIM cards. It also maintains a database to show availability of SIM. Our team responsibility is to automate the entire ticking process and bring it to closure (Robotic automation). I am responsible for building Automation GUI development.    BACKGROUND SKILLS:  J2EE, Core Java, Unix Shell scripts Sybase ASE, Solaris, Linux Windows NT/XP, Eclipse, SVN, Putty, Ultra Edit, AJAX, JavaScript JBOSS.    ACCOUNTABILITIES:  • Involved in deploying the application with Struts Framework and Hibernate  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and created UML diagrams such as Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts for the Optimization module using Microsoft Visio.  • Implemented the AJAX, JSPs, and Servlets, in the MVC Struts Framework to effectively handle the workflow of the application  • Experienced in validation XML manually and programmatically  • Experienced in consuming third party Jars  • Designed and developed the User Interface using JSP, JSF, HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Implemented Design Patterns like MVC, Session Facade and Data Transfer Objects  • Implemented WSDL XML document to located and describe the web services  • Developed Ant scripts to deploy EAR, WAR files for deployment into server  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles  • Worked with Log4J for logging purpose in the project Education Master's Skills ORACLE (6 years), ECLIPSE (5 years), WEBSPHERE (3 years), DB2 (3 years), JBOSS (2 years), PHP (6 years), WAMP (3 years), Lamp (4 years), Yii (3 years), Symfony (2 years), Codeigniter (2 years), Laravel (3 years), HTML (8 years), CSS (8 years), javaScript (7 years), React (5 years), Angular (5 years), Redux (5 years), Zend (5 years), Spring Security (4 years), Spring Batch (4 years), Sail.JS (4 years), Spring Batch (3 years), Spring AOP (3 years), Microservices (3 years), Scala (3 years), Puppet (3 years), Chef (3 years), Ansible (2 years), Asp.Net (2 years), Oracle 10G (3 years), cakephp (4 years), Golang (3 years), Kafka (3 years), Asp.Net (6 years) Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS  • SQLServer, Oracle, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, Eclipse, Flex Builder, NetBeans, RSA, MS Visio, Windows