Web/Social Media Content Designer <span class="hl">Web</span>/Social Media Content Designer SharePoint/ Web Graphic Designer, Social Media Manager Nokesville, VA Enthusiastic individual with over 10 years’ experience in Web and Graphics Design, Web Content Management, Social Media Marketing, and implementing SharePoint based solutions using SharePoint 2013/2010; Desire to assist an organization achieve their goals and to continue professional growth and development; Eagerness to learn and collaborate with others, proud recipient of awards and accolades from customers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web/Social Media Content Designer Freelance/Self employed - Nokesville, VA February 2009 to Present • Coordinate and communicate with customers to plan web development, graphics design, and social media projects from concept through completion and maintenance, utilizing a variety of tools and technology.  • Strive to create visually appealing sites that feature user-friendly design and clear navigation.    • Design Portfolio is available online at http://www.sandysproles.com     List of clients include:    • Young Chow Café, Centreville, VA - 03/2013 – Present  • The Desert Café, Baltimore, MD - 05/2014 – 10/2016  • Total Design, LLC Interiors, Catharpin, VA - 05/2010 – 09/2012  • Select Home Needs, Buford, GA - 04/2010 – 12/2013    • Successfully spearhead campaigns by posting innovative content on social media platforms to include Facebook, Instagram, Google Business, and Yelp.   • Content design includes text, graphics, and videos to efficiently execute paid and organic social media campaigns and adjust as needed.  • Manage and monitor online presence of a company’s brand and engaged with customers to strengthen relationships; Responds to customer questions, complaints, emails, and reviews in a timely manner.  • Monitor SEO and marketing campaigns in terms of traffic; Optimize keyword use and effectiveness.  • Manage all marketing campaigns within budgetary guidelines as directed by management; Prepare reports and forecasts.  • Strong interpersonal, verbal and written communication skills. SharePoint Designer/Consultant Eye Street Solutions/Falcon Engineering - Chantilly, VA July 2017 to July 2018 • Served as a SharePoint Developer/Consultant supporting Accenture Federal Services-DHS/TSA implementing SharePoint based solutions.  • Participated in the analysis, design, development, testing, and deployment phases of projects and deploy out-of-the-box and custom SharePoint 2013 applications per customer requirements.   • Conducted meetings with customer groups to gather requirements and provide solutions to existing problems; Requirements of projects were documented using the Agile Development Methodology utilizing JIRA; Created presentations for project status briefings and training.  • Designed sites that incorporated the use of InfoPath forms, web parts, reporting views, custom lists, workflow, content types and other SharePoint components mostly utilizing OOB features; Develop and maintain custom dashboards.  • Enhanced appearance and functionality of websites with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and graphic design. Example scripts utilized were Hillbilly tabs, site redirects, and auto refresh.  • Administered sites - create groups, grant permissions, enable publishing features.  • Excellent verbal communication, presentation, and design skills used in project status briefings.  • Utilized best practices to design and write User Guides, System Documentation, Policies, and Web content.   • Participated in peer review and designed documentation; Worked with team members to ensure a smooth delivery of project was met by targeted deadline.  • Provided support to resolve technical issues related to SharePoint. Web Content Manager DMI Inc. - Bethesda, MD May 2016 to September 2016 • Served as a Web Content Manager supporting the DOD/DSS implementing SharePoint based solutions.  • Managed, designed and constructed web pages/sites utilizing custom lists, web parts, page layouts, forms, templates, and document libraries in SharePoint 2010/2007. Managed content and adheres to Section 508 user accessibility guidelines.  • Reviewed all web content to identify and resolve broken links, typos or functional errors.  • Exceptional customer service skills can manage multiple projects, team player. Adept in training content managers on best practices and standards of Web style guidelines, site design and maintenance.  • Strong organizational skills and the ability to achieve deadlines in a fast-paced working environment.  • Posted alert notifications and banner announcements on internal website-INFOLINK; Promoted the Agency’s online marketing strategy.  • Designed and modified graphics utilizing Adobe Photoshop CC. SharePoint Developer/Consultant USfalcon (formerly RGS Associates) - Arlington, VA April 2014 to March 2016 • Served as a SharePoint Developer/Consultant supporting the DOJ/USMS implementing SharePoint based solutions.  • Demonstrated knowledge of SharePoint 2010 site management to include Web design and publishing standards; Creation of master and site pages, page layouts, web parts, custom lists, document libraries, and permissions structuring.  • Conducted formal and informal meetings with multiple groups to gathered requirements and provide solutions to existing problems.  • Aided program and project managers throughout the project lifecycle including Requirements Documents, Implementation Plans, User Guides, Test Cases, and Deployment Plans utilizing Agile Development Methodology.    • Led a successful launch of Intranet redesign, coordinating all content and layout with team members; Received a monetary award for efforts.  • Created and improved standards-based Web style guidelines; Provided formal and informal training of content managers and end users on the best practices and standards of SharePoint site design.  • Assisted in the management of content data and taxonomies, adheres to Section 508 guidelines for organization's web presence.  • Created browser compatible forms using InfoPath 2010 and deployed to form Library in SharePoint sites.   • Integrated manual paper routing process into an automated process using workflows within SharePoint.   • Enhanced appearance and functionality of websites with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and graphic design. SharePoint Administrator/ Web Developer CACI - Chantilly, VA June 2012 to February 2013 • Served as a SharePoint Administrator/ Developer supporting the DOD/NRO implementing SharePoint based solutions.  • Development and support of SharePoint 2007 sites consisting of web parts, templates, workflows, lists, document libraries, surveys, and calendars. Examples of web sites created - Logistics, Compliance, Training, Holiday Party, and Physical Fitness.  • Ability to translate user requirements into a technical design for implementation.  • Proficient in editing/creating graphics using Adobe Fireworks & Photoshop, as well as the Microsoft Office Suite of products. Assisted in creating brand for customer websites.  Managed content and adheres to Section 508 user accessibility guidelines.  • Initiative-taking and self-directed with the ability to set priorities and meet deadlines.   • Served as team member assisting users with issues relating to web applications and SharePoint issues.  Interacted with customers via phone, email, on-line chat, and via a Help Desk ticketing system. SharePoint Administrator/ Web Developer Wells Landers Group - McLean, VA April 2011 to June 2012 Performed the same duties as position at CACI (see above). Domino/ Web Developer NTT Data Services, (formerly Dell Services) - McLean, VA September 2009 to April 2011 • Served as a Domino/ Web Developer supporting the CIA implementing Lotus Notes based solutions.  • Development and maintenance of code using Lotus Notes R8.51 – Formula, Lotus Script, HTML, & JavaScript language, redesigning Notes client databases to confirm to the Domino environment and developing new applications as needed.   Education Associate in Information Processing Bryant & Stratton - Williamsville, NY Certificate in Web Development NVA Community College - Manassas, VA Certificate in Information Systems The George Washington University - Washington, DC Skills HTML (5 years), CSS (10+ years), Graphic Design (8 years), Content Management (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Sharepoint (5 years), Lotus Notes (10+ years), Social Media Marketing (5 years), Secret Clearance, Infopath (3 years), Sharepoint Administrator (6 years), Adobe Creative Cloud (5 years), Sharepoint Designer (2 years), Javascript (3 years), Workflow (2 years), Photoshop (8 years), Web Design (10+ years), SEO (9 years), Google Adwords (5 years), Google Analytics (7 years), Sharepoint (5 years) Links http://www.sandysproles.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/sandy-s-239713137/ Awards Exceptional Performance Awards and Kudos Ms. Sproles has received numerous “Exceptional Performance Awards” and "Kudos" from her  employers for providing outstanding customer service throughout her career. Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Foundation CLP Lotus Notes System Administrator R4 Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vkjb3qtz-0nmfh9q Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/o-g633bguelmpa8s Data Entry Clerk — Highly Proficient July 2019 Maintaining data integrity by detecting errors. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wkcacz6n7r-xfrwk Teamwork: Interpersonal Skills — Proficient May 2019 Resolving disputes, solving team problems, and understanding nonverbal cues. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gl0-riyyz8a34el Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information CLEARANCE: - ACTIVE Secret - DOJ, Public Trust - DHS