Contractor - Special Projects (Programming) Contractor - Special Projects (Programming) Web & Applications Developer, DBA Getzville, NY Seeking a position for web design/programming/database management. I have over 20 years of experience in a professional environment and an excellent track record. I am driven by deadlines and quality. Work Experience Contractor - Special Projects (Programming) Real Info Inc - Buffalo, NY February 2019 to Present Currently contract as needed for Real Info Inc after I resigned in February. Senior Programmer Analyst Real Info Inc - Buffalo, NY August 2012 to February 2019 Design, develop, test, and implement custom applications for Real Info Inc and thousands of it's clients. Clients include but aren't limited to M&T Bank, Bank of America, Chase, and also individually owned companies. This included integrations with 3rd party applications and databases thru APIs, REST, curl, XML, php, etc... I also create custom websites as needed and maintain the public Website. I am very fluent in database creation, maintaining, integrity, and quality. Lastly, I maintained the companies backups for personal PC, the code repository, etc. Web Designer, Developer, DBA Greenwood CPW - Greenwood, SC June 2010 to August 2012 Design, develop, test, and implement applications for the Commission of Public Works for Greenwood County. This includes the public Web site, Intranet, Help Desk App., Timesheet App., Project Management App., multi-million dollar budget application, Rockwell Software that controls SCADA systems for Gas, Water, & Electric Depts., Crystal Reports, etc. Anything the Gas, Water, Electric, or Admin (including HR, Finance, etc) Departments need I provide to them in an application form (desktop or Web-based). I am able to self-train and proceed to perfect what is needed in the event I am not familiar with particular software or functionality. I also overlook all the company’s databases, backup recovery plans, strategic plans, etc. Freelance Web Designer, Developer, DBA January 2001 to August 2012 For over 10 years I have written Web sites for several schools, churches, colleagues, and  businesses. I design, develop, implement, and train free of charge just to help out those that aren’t so ‘Web Savvy’. Director Web Services, DBA Piedmont Technical College - Greenwood, SC October 2005 to June 2011 Employee: Overlooked the Web Services Department which included all applications (student, employee, & faculty) for the college. This included the public Web site, Intranet, Student Portal, Course Management Systems, Help Desk System, Student Registration System, HR & Payroll, etc. I also overlooked the Disaster Recovery Plan, Strategic Plan, ADA Compliance, Copyright, & SACS Accreditation for the IT/IS/ Web Services Departments. During my employment I maintained a chair on the following committees: Web Services, Marketing, College Communications, Directors, Public Awareness, Portal, etc.    Contractor: Immediately after resigning from my position I contracted (free of charge) with the college until they found someone to replace me. I did give 1 month notice but that wasn’t enough time for them to find someone to know all my responsibilities. They ended up breaking my position up into several. Java Developer, DBA, DR, QC Parkseed Co., - Greenwood, SC 2002 to October 2005 Employee: Started as a 2nd shift Help Desk operator. Within 3 months I promoted within the company to the IT department and started development of their eCommerce side of business. I designed, developed, tested, and implemented their 5 Web sites using WebSphere Commerce Suite, Java, DB2, and the AS/400. I also overlooked the Disaster Recovery Plan, backup procedures, MiMix, MQ Series, etc. I later transitioned to overlook all Web Services but was never granted the ‘Director’ title before I resigned.    Contractor: Immediately after resigning from my position I contracted with the company so that they could still continue to run as smoothly as possible in my absence. I planned to do so until they found someone to replace me. In 2008 I was no longer able to assist and had to stop completely. Education Certificate Greenville Technical College - Greenville, SC 2004 Associates in Computer Science Piedmont Technical College - Greenwood, SC 2001 Certificate in Computer Networking Piedmont Technical College - Greenwood, SC 2001 Skills php, perl, CSS, HTML, XML, REST, API, mySQL, DB2, MariaDB, Git, Software Development, HTML5, Apache, MySQL