Consultant | Web Developer | Coach Consultant | <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> | Coach Consultant | Web Developer | Coach - Gowens Tech Huntersville, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant | Web Developer | Coach Gowens Tech - Fair Oaks, CA August 2018 to Present Gowens Tech was conceived from a desire to grow a consulting business by "Helping Individuals and Small businesses in our ever-challenging world of Technology."  This year had been spent:  • Constructing and maintaining small websites  • Communicating and teaching basic tech skills to the elderly  • Offering IT services including RMM, and BDR products  • Providing personal coaching for Office 365/G Suite/Windows 10  • Refurbishing and repurposing older computers to donate Senior Business Analyst / Engineer CDC Ventures January 2017 to June 2018 Anchor Commercial Services merged with CDC Small Business Finance (CDC Ventures)  Major responsibilities:  • Provided LMS support and made necessary software changes until all 200+ customers were migrated to the Ventures platform.  • Collaborated in Ventures developer meetings and worked on minor projects as I learned their new code base and framework.  • Increased my experience and understanding of SQL Server and C#    Developer / Chief Technology Officer Developer / CTO Anchor Commercial Services June 1999 to December 2016 I was hired by Anchor Commercial Services to help develop and support a Windows desktop application called Loan Management System (LMS). LMS was used by Certified Development Companies, and eventually banks and credit unions, who offer loans or facilitate loan programs established by the Small Business Administration (SBA) of the United States government. The software managed the complete lifecycle of the loan process including application, closing, and servicing.  Major responsibilities:  • Lead developer of three programmers and oversaw all aspects of design, development, release, and maintenance of LMS to over 200 customers, which included over 1500 individual users.  • Created, edited, and maintained more than a million lines of code which included customer requests, as well as constant updates required by SBA.  • Designed and managed hundreds of detailed forms and reports to mirror the requirements of various loan programs.  • Managed several large-scale projects, including one that would interact with SBA's e-Tran system (an XML centric project) that required information to be electronically transmitted to their data centers.  • Built several custom APIs to interface with solutions from trusted vendors.  • Developed, coordinated, and facilitated classroom training in various parts of the country. Then furthered this training with online sessions for customers to increase their proficiency and skillsets.  • Created and managed over 50 unique data migrations for new customers and their legacy data.  • Implemented key internal systems to automate the process of communicating with our client facing site for automated updates and communication with our support and billing system.  • Served and contributed technical input on several committees that worked directly with local SBA offices, along with headquarters in Washington DC.  • Daily assisted customers via phone and remote sessions by troubleshooting issues and thereby developing and sustaining meaningful relationships with hundreds of people across the country.  Shortly after employment by Anchor Commercial, my job title grew to include CTO of Resource Capital, Anchor's parent company. I was tasked with overseeing all things IT for over 75 staff members and various remote locations across the country.    Major responsibilities:  • Administered all servers including: Exchange, IIS, and Blackberry Enterprise.  • Facilitated the process of migrating old servers to a new, on-premise virtual server environment using VMWare and Citrix.  • Implementation and training of a scanning system that utilized copiers and specialized software to streamline and digitize more than 15 years of documents.  • Troubleshot numerous software and network issues that invariably arose. Developer / Support Furniture Retail Operations Group July 1998 to May 1999 Created and maintained code using an environment called Advanced Revelation.    IT/Consulting Stringer Electronics July 1997 to June 1998 Built and maintained computers, conducted classroom-based trainings, and troubleshot hardware/software issues.    Multiple roles Watson Foodservice, Inc December 1984 to November 1995 Warehouse operations including operating forklifts and loading trucks, as well as learning, designing and maintaining Lotus 1-2-3 spreadsheets and lots of macros. Education BA in Restaurant Texas Tech University - Lubbock, TX Skills Iis, Visual studio, C#, Html, Vba, Xml, Vmware, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Foxpro, Visual foxpro, Ms access, Sql, Customer support, Microsoft windows, System Administrator Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sgowens http://bit.ly/2KECyFP Additional Information SKILLS  Visual FoxPro, VB/VBA, ASP.NET, .net/C#, XML, HTML/CSS/JS, IIS, Visual Studio, SQL, MS Access, VMware, Windows Servers, Microsoft Windows, Office 365, G Suite, Troubleshooting, Customer Support