Web Content Manager <span class="hl">Web</span> Content Manager Gaithersburg, MD Experienced web content manager, developer and writer skilled with site design, architecture, search engine optimization, writing, copy editing and graphic design for nonprofit and government clients. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Content Manager General Dynamics - Rockville, MD August 2011 to July 2019 Maintained the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Refugee Resettlement web site (www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/orr/). Participated in two full site redesigns. Served as chief contact to clients providing suggestions for content, site architecture and search optimization and coordinated content development, promotion, copy editing and graphic design with other team members and departments using Acrobat, Dreamweaver, Microsoft Office, Photoshop and a Drupal based content management system. Web Developer (Temporary) Consortium for Ocean Leadership - Washington, DC May 2010 to November 2010 Transferred content, edited and redesigned architecture and ensured search optimization for three web sites (www.comlsecretariat.org, www.nosb.org and www.iooc.us) using Acrobat, Microsoft Office, Photoshop and Wordpress. Section 508 Compliance Developer (Temporary) ICF/Macro - Rockville, MD September 2009 to October 2009 Coded PDF files to be Section 508 compliant for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services web site using Acrobat. Web Technical Editor AARP - Washington, DC May 2003 to March 2009 Designed, developed and maintained three intranet web sites. Served as chief contact to clients providing suggestions for site architecture and search optimization and coordinated coding, graphic design, content management, database integration and copy editing with other team members and departments. Redesigned site architecture after participating in user opinion surveys with a focus on increasing functionality and easy to use navigation. Contributed to the association's internet site (www.aarp.org/research/) by editing and creating HTML and PDF files for vital research reports using Acrobat, Contribute, Dreamweaver, HitBox, Homesite, Microsoft Office, Photoshop, Teamsite and WebTrends. Education High school or equivalent Skills Web Design (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Website Design (10+ years), Graphic Design (10+ years), Editing (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Word (10+ years)