Training Integration Data Analyst Training Integration Data Analyst Training Integration Data Analyst - General Dynamics Information Technology Raeford, NC I am seeking employment with a company where I can grow professionally and personally. I have training integration, systems analysis and web based solution experience that leverage Microsoft tools and technologies such as ASP.NET, C#, SQL Database Server, SharePoint.    LANGUAGES & DEVELOPMENTAL TOOLS  Languages:  HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, VB Script, ASP, ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, C#, CSS    Reporting Services:  Power BI, Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Service, COGNOS, Crystal Report.    RDBMS:  MS SQL, AZURE, MS Access, Sybase, FoxPro.    Environments:  Visual Studio 2005, 2010, MS Visual InterDev, Visual Source Safe (VSS).    Web Servers:  Internet Information Server (IIS 5-7).    Platforms:  SharePoint 2010/2013, Windows 2008 Server, Windows 2003 Server, Win XP, Windows NT, Windows 2000, DOS. Work Experience Training Integration Data Analyst General Dynamics Information Technology October 2018 to Present Support G37 in unit assignment, training requirements and scheduling.  Support efforts leading up to, during, and in closing follow-up actions for meeting the objectives to include: Concept Development Conferences (CDC), Initial Planning Conferences (IPC), Middle Planning Conferences (MPC), and Final Planning Conferences (FPC) for all exercises. During CDCs.  Help streamline data collection and reporting by creating complex datasets and reports -- pulling data in from multiple sources into interactive insights, enhancing effective decision making. Senior Consultant Booz Allen Hamilton April 2014 to September 2018 Helped USARC G37 upgrade their Decision Support System training application to meet the new training strategy. Unit Training System (UTS) is a decision support tool that allows multi-year training management of Army Reserve forces by allowing USAR-wide visibility of both unit data and capabilities and requests for forces, so to schedule the right unit at the right time in its progressive training readiness cycle. Project Lead/SSRS BI Developer Pitech Solutions October 2012 to September 2013 Developed and maintain a detailed project plan for migrating FORSCOM G6, COGNOS Business Intelligence (BI) reports to Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) in SharePoint 2010 front end in both classified and unclassified environments. Web Developer -Lead CACI Inc June 2011 to September 2012 Planned and managed migration of Individual Training and Readiness System (ITRS) from Fox Pro and Sybase database to Microsoft SQL 2008 database. ITRS is a Decision Support System that helps USARC analyze personnel and training requirements. Maintained the web front end in classic ASPs while migrating it to .NET and also oversee similar migration with Army Reserve Battle Book (ARBB) from client MS Access based in both classified and unclassified environments. Web Developer -Lead CACI Inc January 2001 to March 2011 Developed and maintained a web based Unit Training System (UTS); a Decision Support System for scheduling, coordinating, and resourcing of collective unit training and selected individual soldier training base on their AFORGEN cycle.  Migrated UTS from a desktop based application (Visual Basic 5/SQL database) to a web based program while simultaneously maintaining continuous training analysis and scheduling operations. Established professional relationships with USARC technical staff to ensure effective training coordination and integration. Provide technical advice for program enhancements. Designs, codes, tests and maintains total program. Extensive experience in all software and hardware use to support UTS. Education BS in Computer Science Savannah State University 1998 Assessments Critical Thinking — Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dz4-iprncdum1bwr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.