Senior Paid Search Manager Senior Paid Search Manager Senior Paid Search Manager - DAGMAR Marketing Orlando, FL Work Experience Senior Paid Search Manager DAGMAR Marketing March 2019 to Present Develops client strategy for Google Ads, Bing Ad and Facebook Retargeting based on their goals.    Executes account management tasks based on those strategies including but not limited to campaign builds, optimizations, budgeting and reporting.    Effectively communicates with agency partners via front facing communication platform and via monthly or quarterly phone calls.    Follows time and frequency targets. Proactively pitches new products, strategies and expansions to agency partners.  Answers inquiries from assigned agency partners in a professional, helpful and appropriate manner; escalates non-responsibility  tasks to appropriate owner/ambassador/team; uses good judgment when deciding what to escalate to the leadership team.    Effectively executes department strategy; makes recommendations for process and team improvement.    Identifies and executes additional projects to benefit the company in areas such as IPPC Blogging, Host/Develop Webinars, Attend  IPPC Events, Internal/External Process Improvement, Team Training, IPPC Social Media Participation Vendor/Product Ambassador PPC Account Manager El Toro Interactive December 2018 to April 2019 Contract)  Manage and optimize paid search campaigns, including bid optimization, landing page optimization, analyzing search query reports, and creating ad copy.    Created paid search reports, analyzing campaign performance along with strategic recommendations for continual improvement.    Utilized reporting, analytics and trend tools such as Google AdWords, Analytics, and Tag Manager.    Analyze data quickly on a regular basis to drive conversion performance. Senior Paid Search Manager FZA Digital August 2018 to December 2018 Manage and optimize paid search campaigns, including bid optimization, landing page optimization, analyzing search query reports, and creating ad copy.    Analyze effectiveness of a/b testing and ad copy variation testing.    Created & streamlined paid search reports, analyzing campaign performance along with strategic recommendations for continual  improvement.    Utilized reporting, analytics and trend tools such as Google AdWords, Analytics, and Tag Manager.    Analyze data quickly on a regular basis to drive conversion performance.    Proactively resolved campaign issues and provide effective solutions.    Stay current on emerging trends and act as a thought leader, keeping the team updated on changes and best practices.    Trained and supervised new team members. Web Developer / Paid Search Specialist Next Horizon Information Technology and Digital Marketing December 2015 to August 2018 Designed wireframes, to visual mockups to working prototypes.. as well as implemented web-based user interface using Adobe  XD, Photoshop, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, and Javascript frameworks directed front end projects from concept to completion.    Developed prototypes with HTML5, Javascript, and CSS for a customer support application utilizing the bootstrap framework.    Managed over twenty web and interactive projects from initial consultation through successfully launch with the ability to handle  various projects at the same time and complete them by given deadline.    Worked with customers to create great performing marketing solutions across the AdWords, Analytics, and Email Marketing  platforms to greatly increase return on investments.    Improved application core functionality with jQuery for better customer experience, increased search engine visibility, increased  visitations, and a major reduction of bounce rates.  Used A/B testing to aid Next Horizon clients in getting high-rate returns on paid search investments.    Implemented search engine optimization strategies into several client websites to improve overall search rankings and search  visibility.    Maintained documentation of all customization's throughout the application for clients.    Supported client in editing code, and changing options on their templates or designs. Web Developer / Graphic Designer Upwork July 2015 to June 2017 Designed high-impact, user-centered Web sites with a strong emotional appeal, sophisticated production values and intuitive  navigation to maximize user engagement and cement powerful brand identities.    Increased traffic and enhanced page ranking by improving website structure, performing Search Engine Optimization (SEO) and Search Engine Marketing (SEM) for local improvements.    Developed UI/UX strategies that include wire frames and mock ups and for small and medium-sized enterprises.    Pioneered the use of A/B split testing for clients' Company, facilitating response-rate gains of 25% on banner ads and landing  pages.    Researched, strategized and launched UX improvements for nonprofit sites that increased online sales.    Provided interaction design solutions including mockups, task flows and interaction specifications for a customer support admin  portal.    Clients included; Lexus of Beverly Hills, and major IoT conference holder Silicon Valley Innovation Center. Created multiple print  designs for the Italian Association, created graphic designs for Family Inceptions for social media. US Army September 2008 to August 2016 Field Artillery  Developed and led training programs in preparation for combat.    Prepared Field Automated Tactical Data Systems for operation, including cabling, installation and removal procedures.    Performed crew maintenance and participates in the organizational maintenance of section equipment.    Maintained 100% accountability of all assigned equipment.    Determined elevation and grid azimuths with maps, and map overlays. Web Producer / Graphic Designer US Army August 2014 to May 2015 Developed corporate brand and designed multiple websites for vacation renting of vacation homes in the Central Florida area.    Wrote About Page biography, designed and shaped graphics, corrected image problems, and formatted company logo for the Web.    Took photos of vacation homes for presentation on websites.    Responsible for site maintenance, editing, and search engine promotion.    Responsible for creating interactive forms, emails, and presentations for sales and services.    Created HTML/XHTML/CSS mock-ups for Account Management and Business Development needs.  Created cutting edge animated flash intros, banners, and web-based advertising.    Initiated branding and all graphic design strategies for print and web use. Web Producer / Graphic Designer US Army August 2013 to August 2014 Produced well-designed marketing advertisements for local events.    Developed multiple website projects using programming languages such as HTML5, CSS / SASS, JavaScript, and jQuery.    Created promotional Materials for events, such as tumblers, mugs, pens, gift cards, company brochures, specification sheets, and business cards.    Created and maintained the official website; maintained other social media accounts and other online properties.    Cleaned up marketing stock photos, logo design, and illustrations. Education Bachelor of Science in Digital Art, Web Design, Web Development Full Sail University 2007 to 2009 Skills Organic search, Paid search, Search engine marketing, Search engine optimization, Seo, Social media marketing, User experience, User interface, Web design, Marketing, Roi, Advertising, Marketing strategy, Branding, Creative direction, Logo design, Online marketing, Content management systems, Css, Search engine, Adwords, Digital Marketing, Google Analytics, SEM, PPC, Display Certifications/Licenses Bing Ads Accredited Professional November 2018 to Present Google Web Designer Basics April 2018 to Present Advanced Google Analytics April 2018 to Present Google Analytics for Beginners April 2018 to Present Google Tag Manager Fundamentals April 2018 to Present SEO Fundamentals Exam May 2018 to Present AdWords Display Certification April 2018 to Present Google AdWords Certification April 2018 to Present Google Shopping Certification April 2018 Mobile Sites Certification April 2018 to Present Additional Information Google Ads disciplines: Mobile, Video, Display, Search and Shopping  Google Analytics Certified  Google Analytics Academy: Beginners, Advanced and Power Users  Google Tag Manager Fundamentals  SEMrush - SEO Fundamentals Exam    Specialties:  Paid Search Engine Marketing: Google, Bing, Yahoo Ads  Paid Social Media Marketing Facebook & Twitter Ads  Organic Search Engine Optimization: SEO  Advanced Web Analytics: ROI Tracking & CRM Analysis  Website Conversion Rate Optimization: Funnel Analysis  Landing Page Testing and Analysis: Multivariate Testing, A/B Testing    SKILLS    Marketing Strategy, PPC, Online Advertising, User Interface Design, User Experience Design, Web Development, Web Analytics, Art  Direction, E-commerce, Email Marketing, Branding & Identity, Digital Photography, Video Editing, Online Marketing, Marketing,  Advertising, Photography, Print Design, Responsive Web Design, Logo Design, Social Media Marketing, SEO, Brand Development,  Web Design, Graphic Design, Social Media, Graphics, User Experience, Google Adwords, Google Webmaster Tools, CSS, WordPress,  Photoshop, Adobe Photoshop, HTML5, Adobe Creative Suite, Google Analytics, PHP, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), JavaScript,  jQuery, Content Management Systems (CMS), Webpack, React.js, HTML Emails, Creative Direction, Social Networking, Gulp.js,  GruntJS