Senior UI/UX Designer Senior UI/UX Designer Senior UI/UX Designer - Department of Homeless Services Iselin, NJ Over 14 years of user centric design and development experience in web and mobile applications. Understand customer centric product development and how to engage the customer as a participant in the UX development process. Adept at all phases of project lifecycle, including requirements gathering and user analysis to information architecture (IA), testing, graphic user interface (GUI) design, and implementation. Solid knowledge of human-computer interaction (HCI), design principles, navigation, and user-centered design (UCD). Strong design and production skills with emphasis on interactive elements. Work Experience Senior UI/UX Designer Department of Homeless Services - New York, NY September 2018 to Present • Work closely with Product Management, Business Analyst and Development teams to align designs with overall product and business strategy  • Illustrate design ideas using storyboards, sitemaps, and process flow.  • Create data heavy dashboard design. Data presentation in form of KPI's, graphs and tables.  • Handling the design solutions to meet the business requirements, instituting a user-centered design (UCD) approach.  • Create UI mockups and prototypes which shows how the application will function  • Create user journeys and sitemap.  • Adhere to style standards on fonts, colors, and elements defined on the UXD site  • Identify the design issues and provide a better solution or suggestion.  • Collaborate with agile, multi-disciplinary teams to evaluate the feasibility of proposed features and create phased approaches to development UI/UX Designer Sam IT Solutions - Morrisville, NC November 2017 to September 2018 • Managed Web and interactive communication projects from initial consultation through successfully launch with ability to handle various projects at the same time and complete them by given deadline.  • Hands on experience in UX Design - Wireframe concepts, Interactive HTML Prototypes, Mock Up designs, Storyboards for new functionality and site enhancements  • Create promotional materials like posters, banners and table tops and also design logos, business cards and letterheads.  • Conceptualized and create design to promote existing or new business identity.  • Designed and managed the new interface, typography and layouts.  • Created Supported design implementation for development team via CSS and HTML coding.  • Refined study methodologies to include face to face interactions with customers leading to increased quality of results in desktop and mobile applications.  • Presented recommendations and solutions to clients that met both user expectations and business.  • Worked with customers to create an intuitive use interface that are cutting edge and easy to use.  • Suggest client basic ideas to promote their presence.    UI/UX Designer  • Designed and developed interactive websites for various clients.  • Designed promotional materials and logos.  • Created wireframes in Photoshop as well as live demo of the layout.  • Fixed sites to be more responsive to mobile (iOS/Android) and tablets for better User Experience.  • Designed mock-ups for potential and existing clients to show how our applications would look if integrated into their systems.  • Modify pre-existing WordPress templates to suit the client needs. Analyst(UI/UX), VP Citibank - Long Island, NY December 2014 to June 2016 • Interacted with stakeholders (product owners, team leads, project leads, QA Team, scrum master, developers and designers) to learn business requirements.  • Work with other internal business units in delivering quality technology products.  • Act as functional and business process expert, ensuring that both business needs and end-user needs are understood and reflected in every solution delivered.  • Responds proactively to both business and project issues and escalates appropriately.  • Lead a team where we worked on projects to provide better user experience to our customers on web and mobile devices.  • Responsible for understanding Agile Development principles and practices, backlog, velocity model, features and stories sizing. Senior Analyst Discovery Channel - New York, NY July 2014 to November 2014 • Worked with UX lead and designers to give customer better user experience on web, tablets and mobile devices.  • Familiarity with W3 standards and ADA compliance issues. UI/UX Designer/ Developer White, Co, US January 2014 to March 2014 Designed, developed and maintained interactive responsive websites. Web Developer New York, NY November 2012 to July 2013 • Responsible for creating interactive and fluid web pages  • Actively took part in team Scrum meeting.  • Used Atlassian Jira to track bugs, issues and project management Web Developer RICG - New York, NY June 2012 to September 2012 Developed interactive websites and created newsletters. Web Developer/Designer (Contract) Premier Supplies - New York, NY January 2012 to May 2012 Designed and developed a B2B website. Freelance New York, NY July 2008 to May 2012 UI/UX Designer & Developer  • Designed and developed interactive websites, created logos and other promotional materials. Graphic Web Designer/ Developer/ Interaction Designer (Remote) Sam Analytic Solutions - Morrisville, NC December 2009 to February 2012 Designed and developed interactive websites and also created wireframes and designed posters, booklets, business cards, logos and other promotional materials. Graphic Web Designer/ Developer Sam Analytic Solutions - Princeton, NJ September 2011 to November 2011 Maintained and updated PEI website, created PowerPoint slideshows and managed PEI social media accounts. Associate JP Morgan Chase - Brooklyn, NY May 2006 to March 2008 Worked as an Associate in a check processing department. Education Certification in Graphic Design and Animation Anthem Institute October 2008 B.A. Vinoba Bhave University 1999 Links http://Proto.io Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Design & Development: HTML • CSS • JavaScript • XML • jQuery • DHTML • JavaScript • PHP • MySQL  Design: Acrobat • Adobe LiveCycle Designer • Photoshop • Illustrator • Fireworks • InDesign  Web Editors: Brackets • Sublime Text • Notepad++ • Dreamweaver  Prototypes / Mockups: Sketch • InVision • Figma • Webflow • Glify Diagrams • Proto.io • Balsamiq • Axure  CMS: WordPress • Joomla • Roxen • HP TeamSite • Drupal • Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) • Webflow  Project Tracking & Management: Jira • Basecamp • Asana • Podio • Agile • Waterfall  Other Skills & Tools: Bootstrap • Foundation • Skeleton • PowerPoint • MS Word • MS Office • Excel • GitHub • Wireframe • HP Quality Center • SharePoint • E-Commerce • Service Now • Visio • DIT • SIT • UAT • Balsamiq • WCAG • ASP.NET • ServiceNow • Putty • GUI • UI • UX • BAU • A/B Testing • After Effects • Adobe Premier • Human Computer Interaction (HCI) • Agile