iOS Developer and Designer iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Designer iOS Developer and Designer Austin, TX After obtaining the first place at the University of Houston’s CodeRED Liftoff Hackathon and the creation of my very first mobile app in 2015 marked my life, I decided my professional path was in Software development. Now 3+ years of experience as an iOS developer and graphic designer fuel my passion for creative design. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience iOS Developer and Designer Omega One Developers May 2014 to Present OMEGA ONE DEVELOPERS  -Teamed up with another android developer to create iOS counterpart applications and a cross platform app.  -Design and develop assets in Adobe CC to use within apps and used popular frameworks like (Cocoa Pods) and APIs (Google Maps, Firebase, Auth) to give needed functionality to applications.  -Work with version control software GitHub, taking care of issues to keep track of our progress and to fix issues that software may present  during development. (Languages: Objective-C and Swift) Full Stack Web Developer JASER ENTERPRISES, LLC September 2009 to 2014 -Designed, developed, and provided Support for client web environments. All sites were created from scratch using frameworks such as Propel, jQuery, Bootstrap, (NodeJS or Apache) and MySQL.  -Set up custom environments in Linux (Apache), Windows (IIS), and NodeJS (Express). (Languages Used: Python, JavaScript, PHP, HTML, CSS) Art Director THE MONITOR January 2006 to August 2009 LA FRONTERA (THE MONITOR)  -Acquired experience in the best practices for UI/UX ensuring that scale, white space, visual hierarchy, complexity, consistency, color and contrast were always in harmony.  -Provided design elements and assets to get Daily "Print-Ready" material.  -Oversaw marketing and editorial team, provided text layout standards, designed signage for advertisements and provided photography  quality management.  -Acquired expertise in Adobe software (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Lightroom, Premiere, After Effects and XD) & worked with Version  Control Software like Apache subversion, and GitHub. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS RIO GRANDE VALLEY Associate in Computer Science SOUTH TEXAS COLLEGE - McAllen, TX Skills Swift, Objective-C, Xcode, Storyboard, Java, Objective C, Android, C, Iphone, Bluetooth, MVVM Links https://portfolio-website-hxoc6m.vertex360.co/