Lead Web Developer Lead <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Web Developer - IBM Inc New York, NY My 12+ years of career here has given me vast experience in leading the design and development of complex web applications and solutions using technologies like Angular, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, jQuery, Java, REST APIs. I am highly passionate about architecting aesthetically pleasing and functionally efficient applications. I am a natural problem solver and love to explore creative solutions to meet business and systems requirements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Web Developer IBM Inc 2012 to Present Key accomplishments:    Designed an emerging class of applications and services for AT&T's Unified Communication  product line. By seamlessly integrating various communication applications across multiple  networks into a single unified customer interface, and by introducing an overarching set of network hosted features that operate across the various access mechanisms, the new solu-  tion helped in significantly reducing the procurement and deployment delays.    Architected a solution to significantly enhance AT&T's process of associating VPN's Partial  Order (PO) with their Unified Sales Orders (USO). By automating the POs to USO's association  process, the new solution was not only able to close the existing process gaps of dissociated  partial orders, but was also able to eliminate the highly complex and manual process of searching across all interfacing applications. Received IBM's Global Thanks Award, as the de-  sign was recognized for its exceptional design.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Utilize in-depth knowledge of Angular, CSS, HTML, jQuery, Javascript, JSP, Servlet  technologies, and Web Services in conjunction with business skills to design and archi- tect solutions for new business requirements  ? Lead and provide direction to a team of fourteen web (front-end and services) devel- opers  ? Develop strategy for the team to achieve the goals of delivering innovative, cost sav- ing, and defect free products and applications  ? Introduce innovative technologies and enable the team to evaluate technologies and frameworks while making design decisions  ? Guide the team towards designing and implementation of efficient business solutions  ? Enhance the new hire on-boarding program to align it with technologies and frame- work used within SDN application suite  ? Encourage team to follow best development practices and standards  ? Establish Quality Procedures for the team and continuously monitor and audit to en- sure team meets quality goals    Portfolio: Software Defined Network (SDN) Application Suite, Test and Turn up (TTU) - Scheduling, End to End flow management System - Managed Services (EFMS - MS) Cofounder & CTO StyleCheck September 2015 to 2018 StyleCheck was the very first invitation only and exclusive crowd-styling iOS app to empower  users to review and evolve their personal style. It was one of the featured products at Start- up Grind Global Conference 2017.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Establish StyleCheck's technical vision and led all aspects of the technological devel- opment of Stylecheck  ? Conducted competitive analysis, market definition, product design, engineering pro- cesses for StyleCheck  ? Established the architecture and designed the solution  ? Developed the native iOS app for StyleCheck  ? Developed the company website using Responsive web Design  ? Integrated with third Party API's and developed back-end applications for StyleCheck Sr. Application Developer IBM Inc 2009 to 2012 Key accomplishments:  Designed and developed user interface for AT&T's highly strategic initiative for Sales process  alignment and applications' rewrite. The new web services and intuitive GUI transformed  AT&T's sales strategy from a traditional, dependent, and error prone method to an intelli- gent, seamlessly integrated, and user friendly mechanism That transformed sales strategy and related systems provided AT&T a significant competitive advantage in the marketplace.    Key designer and developer for the Flow Through application. By several integrations and automations, the new flow-through solution was able to minimize human touchpoints  throughout the Advanced virtual private network (AVPN) order creation to billing cycle, and in return increase the throughput by approximately 15%. Received the Delivery Excellence  Award, as IBM recognized the design as 2012's most successful projects.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Utilize in-depth knowledge of CSS, HTML, Javascript, JSP, Servlet technologies, and Web Services in conjunction with business skills to design solutions for new business  requirements  ? Lead the development and delivery of significant, large scale, and global applications  ? As a designated Single Point Of Contact (SPOC) for multiple projects, estimate devel- opment cost and timeline and also ensure the team meets the project schedule and  deadlines  ? Mentor and train junior developers on application architecture, programming best  practices, and team processes  ? Lead Function Point Analysis (FPA) for EFMS-MS application  Portfolio: End to End flow management System - Managed Information Services (EFMS - MIS)  Application Suite, End to End flow management System (EFMS) - Automation Application Developer IBM Inc 2007 to 2009 Key accomplishments:  Leveraged UI expertise to enhance AT&T's prominent VoIP application suite's productivity. By  developing an integrated dashboard of orders and work list to providing a combined view of ordering, provisioning and turn-up activities, the new solution empowered the business users in efficient order management.    Developed a real-time provisioning solution for AT&T's best selling services, namely BVoIP and AVPN. By enabling the customers to self-service certain order types by real-time order  fulfillment and procurement.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Deliver high quality solutions to varying and complex business requirements.  ? Translate customer requirements into technical requirement and establish correspond- ing technical design documents, program and develop new solutions, unit and regres-  sion test, perform code reviews, and lastly contribute towards product release and user trainings.  Portfolio: AT&T Virtual Private Network (AVPN) - global, transport and managed, Managed In- ternet Service (MIS), Business Voice over IP (BVoIP). Education Master of Computer Applications in design R. V. College Of Engineering - Bengaluru, Karnataka 2004 to 2007 Bachelor of Management and Information Technology in Management and Information Technology Graphic Era Institute Of Technology - Dehra Dun, Uttarakhand 2000 to 2003 Skills Angular, Front End, HTML5, Javascript, Jquery, Angularjs