Sr. Web Application Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Web</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web Application Developer - United Airlines Chicago, IL • 13+ years of experience in Information Technology and Services industry.  • Good knowledge in the total development life cycle of a software product - application specification, design, development, testing and implementation.  • 4 years of full-stack experience working on the frameworks like Bootstrap, Angular JS, Knockout, Node.js-Express, Dojo, and SOFEA.  • 2 years of experience working on Angular 2, 4 framework.  • 1 year of experience working on API-development using C# .Net MVC and knowledge of core .Net.  • 8 plus years of strong front-end UI development skills using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, SASS preprocessor.  • Expertise in the development of DataPower components such as MPGW and front side handlers using XSLT, XSL, XML, JQuery and AJAX, JSON for asynchronous request/response handling.  • Development experience of REST API server with Node.js-Express, MongoDB.  • Experience working on the Broadvision application server with C++ application components and JSP, JavaScript front-end components.  • Expertise using Alfresco, DCC (Dynamic Control Center) content management systems  • Development experience on UNIX and windows.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to handle multiple demands and competing priorities simultaneously with strict deadlines.  • Ability to provide work estimates and deliver those in a timely manner. Ability to work both independently and collaboratively on projects  • Ability to train and instruct others and efficiently delegate responsibilities to the team.  • Experience working on GE's SCADA-EMS software product - XA21. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Web Application Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL May 2017 to Present Working on the Compass - a contact center call agent application of United Airlines. Compass application is being developed with a goal to replace a legacy VB6 based EZR application which was built to launch from an IE-based container.  Compass application is a more user-friendly performance rich responsive single page application which was built to launch from chromium-based Electron container.  Responsibilities:  • Developed proof of concept to set up GraphQL server with Node, Express, MongoDB and created schema and resolvers to call the existing APIs. Integrated the Apollo GraphQL in the existing Angular application with a goal to improve the performance of the application with GraphQL's ability to send only the data that is asked for and to reduce the number of round trips from UI to the APIs.  • Configured the electron -builder to automate the process of build, package and auto-install the electron container in agent's machine.  • Developed a tool called Admin Panel using Angular and Angular Material components. Admin Panel tool is primarily used by admin and trainer to add and configure the agents to a certain release. The tool also allows to add the list of agents to the training sessions provided to the agents. The tool provides the ability to add, edit and delete the agents.  • Developed the one-click feature for the agents to instantly create defects in TFS(Team Foundation Server) with screenshots and other incident details captured from the background using HTML5, Javascript, electron container's desktop capturer and Node's file system to access the logged in agent details. Also created a form that allows the agents to manually complete the form with the issue details and attach the screenshots. On submitting the form, defect is created in TFS. Bootstrap components are used to create the form elements, panels etc. SASS is used for styling the UI.  • Extensively involved in the design, development and implementation of various functionalities in the Compass application like Syncing up the ITA and SHARES(UA database), flight Shopping that includes flight selection, seat selection and removal, package selection and removal, application of promos, electronic Transfer Certificates, Payment processing, PNR Summary, Reshop PNRs etc. Used Bootstrap, Knockout (the initial part of the application was developed using KnocoutJS), AngularJS, Angular2, Angular 4 and SASS - CSS preprocessor.  • Worked on developing API's in C# .Net MVC that acts like an orchestration layer between front-end and backend systems.  • Worked in the Agile/Scrum development environment. Provided knowledge and individual mentoring to the team members. Web Application Developer Express Scripts - Franklin Lakes, NJ February 2008 to June 2016 Express Scripts is the largest pharmacy benefit management (PBM) organization in the United States. Express Scripts provides clinically-driven pharmacy services designed to lower total health care costs for private and public employers, health plans, labor unions and government agencies of all sizes, and for individuals served by the Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans. The company processes pharmaceutical claims for members through a network of retail pharmacies.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in the design, development and implementation of various functionalities in the eCommerce web application. Subject matter of expertise for functionalities like Shopping Cart, Address and Payment functionality, Claims & Balances, SSO Login, Login eligibility, registration etc.  • Worked in the Agile/Scrum development environment. Coded application components using a test-driven approach. Provided knowledge and individual mentoring to team members as needed.  • Extensively involved in directing the new developers to pick up the architecture and efficiently delegated responsibilities to the team.  • Over the years with Express Scripts and Medco Health Solutions, as part of major migrations of web application architecture, worked on various technologies listed below in the descending order in which I worked -    Angular JS -  • Migrated Shopping Cart functionality to use Angular JS framework. The tech stack is Angular JS, LESS, Bootstrap.  • Developed HTML views using HTML5, CSS3. Developed custom HTML elements using angular directives.  • Developed angular services and factories and used angular promise API for making asynchronous calls.  • Designed and implemented a production quality build with Grunt. Used Karma to run the unit tests developed in Jasmine.  • Configured and used Protractor to create and run e2e tests.    SOFEA -  • Migrated the Claims History front-end component using SOFEA(Service Oriented Front End Architecture)  • Worked on CSS preprocessor -LESS    Data Power--  • Developed DataPower components such as MPGW and front side handlers in XSLT.  • Developed abstract services in XSL with business logic to construct a model in XML. Abstract services call the required data power web services and http-services to finally generate an XML  • Developed the presentation controller logic on front-end pages using DataPower XSLs, JQuery, AJAX, JSON.  • Developed XHTML templates to generate the views.  • Used Alfresco content management system for cobranding and storing static content.    Dojo framework -  • Developed couple of front-end components using Dojo framework.  • Broadvision application development (Medco's legacy architecture)  • Developed front-end application components using Broadvision based C++.  • Developed front-end pages using XML, XSL files with JavaScript and generate HTML pages.  • Used DCC (Dynamic Control Center) content management system. Software Engineer GE Energy - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2005 to April 2007 Worked on SCADA-EMS software product - XA21. The project envisaged supply, installation, testing, training and commissioning of the product to the power grid of western India.    Responsibilities:  • Requirement analysis and effort estimation for three modules of XA21 - Transmission Security Management (TSM), Generation Dispatch and Control(GDC), Network Status Processor.  • Development of the modules in C.  • Preparation of Unit Test Procedures(UTP) and Acceptance Test Procedures (ATP)  • Development of Shell scripts whenever required.  • Involved in technical meetings with the customers. Education M.S in Power Systems in Power Systems JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana B.S in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Json, Middleware, Xml, Xslt, Xml/xslt, Angularjs, Dojo, Html5, Knockout, Sass, Ajax, Mongodb, Rational, jquery, Clearcase, Clearquest, UI, Front End, Front-End, Angular