Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Duluth, GA Applying for the Junior Java Developer position to create top quality software in Java using my academic and professional experience in software development and database management and work towards career advancement. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer United States Advanced Network - Norcross, GA January 2016 to September 2017 ? Developed mobile interactive voice response applications for large business call centers.  ? Coded applications with a propriety scripting language with a SQL database as back-end.  ? Internal projects were coded mostly in C# and JavaScript. Web Application Developer - Student Assistant KSU UITS Enterprise Systems and Services - Kennesaw, GA January 2014 to December 2015 ? Developed a staff management web application for KSU stadium using ASP, VBScript, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS.  ? Manage SQL databases that provide backend support for enterprise software applications.  ? Work in a spiral development type environment with frequent communication with the clients. Mobile and Web Developer Intern MADLab - Kennesaw, GA September 2013 to December 2013 ? Worked with a team of developers to maintain and improve current ongoing projects.  ? Tested websites and mobile application requested by real clients.  ? Responded to client issues and solved any technical problems.    RELEVENT PROJECTS  Image Organizer Project (https://github.com/MorningOwl/Java-Image-Organizer.git)  Java  An image processing program that organizes a select group of digital pictures based on a color the user inputs. Images are read using ImageIO and stored in a BufferedImage where a multi-threading algorithm runs through each pixel returned by the reader. The number of threads used is based on the number of the system's available processors to maximize efficiency. Each thread is assigned a set of rows to calculate. Each pixel read is converted to a HSB representation and is compared to a set of pre-defined colors to decide which color it closely represents using a simple a 3-dimensional distance formula. Threads then return all calculated colors to the parent to be converted into percentages to be later used as a comparator when organizing.    File Deposit (https://github.com/MorningOwl/FileDeposit_Production.git)  Java  A file back-up system written with a group of students for a senior project at Kennesaw State University. It was a client-to-cloud project where a client software was created using components of the java.awt package while using Google Cloud Storage as backend. JetS3t API was used to assist with coding methods related to connection and other communications between the software and Google Cloud. The user would select a folder or a group of files and perform a scheduled task to create a backup copy of the files either locally or in the cloud. Files are only loaded if they have been updated using a MD5 checksum condition. Files loaded locally are done using FileInputStream and FileOutputStream while files loaded in Google Cloud use methods defined by JetS3t.    Singleton Logger (https://github.com/MorningOwl/Java-SingletonLogger.git)  Java  This project is a logging program created with the intention of preserving logs that display program activities and errors to assist with debugging. It is a self-initiating class that allows the user to log any outputs of their program on the console and/or into a log file. The class was arranged to be thread-safe, using synchronization and double-checking methods where vital to prevent undesired outcomes.    MyLinkedList (https://github.com/MorningOwl/Java-My-Linked-List.git)  Java  This was an attempt to produce a doubly-linked list similar to Java's LinkedList class. The MyLinkedList class contains a generic type similar that of Java's that will allow any type of objects to be stored. Node is another generic-typed class that acts as a bucket containing a stored element as well as the Node objects that are connected to that bucket. The list contains a max size, the current size of the list, the first Node, the last Node, and the current Node. Users could add and remove from the beginning or the end list. It can also insert an array of elements as well as the standard get and set methods similar to that of LinkedList. When retrieving an element of certain index, it calculates which of stored Nodes is the closest (first, current or last) and traverses to that index in relative to that Node. This allows for a faster and efficient traversing.    Night Owl Productions Staffing System  Microsoft SQL Server  This is a web application that was designed for Kennesaw State University's Fifth-Third Bank Stadium's staffing department. It allowed the department to effectively manage their student staffs and volunteers and better assign shifts to those with proper qualifications and training. The database behind the web app was stored in Microsoft SQL Server and contained tables that stored data like student information, stadium trainings, job listings and table relationships. Procedures and queries were created that produced data like job matching or hours worked. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Kennesaw State University - Kennesaw, GA December 2015 Skills SQL (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), CSS (2 years), HTML5 (2 years), VBSCRIPT (2 years), Java (4 years) Links http://www.github.com/MorningOwl http://www.linkedin.com/in/ecalder2 Additional Information SKILLS  Programming Languages  ? Java ? C# ? Python ? C ? C++ ? VBScript  ? SQL ? MySQL ? HTML5 ? CSS ? JavaScript    Operating Systems  ? MS-DOS ? Linux    Software Development Tools  ? Eclipse ? NetBeans ? Visual Studio ? SQL Server Management Studio  ? PyCharm ? ASPRunner ? MySQL Workbench ? Microsoft Visio    Others  ? Strong sense of organization and thorough documentation of projects.  ? Great technical writing and presentation skills.