Web developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Web developer - SYSPRO San Diego, CA Web developer or a commercial software application developer position that utilizes my  experienced in hands-on the development and system analysis. I enjoy the challenge of  latest technology with a can do attitude. Work Experience Web developer SYSPRO February 2005 to Present Admin SYSPRO 2007 to 2010 to created multi base reseller templates  sites. Created the portal sales reports system. Developed the XML interface between CRM,  Marketo and other custom systems. Implemented Microsoft share-point 2007 and 2010  included custom programming module. Created land pages on the websites to capture visit  information. Managed the regional and main corporate website. Developed auto generated  web pages for site. Created web applications run on IOS and Android system.  2 -3 Contract Web developer Ktdynamic, Inc December 2002 to February 2005 Program maintaining clients' web sites from Ecommerce solutions, Email marketing, and custom prepaid phone card systems. I have worked with clients at the beginning stage from an idea until their web site launched. I have assisted in the design front end, build  database backend, and create custom programming in ASP, ASP.NET, Linux, PHP, Store  procedure, ADO, ADO.NET, testing and implement clients' web sites. Below are the web sites that I have involved and supported:    www.vietnam84.com www.vipthenetwork.com www.ktdynamic.com  www.chauthuy.com www.vietlifemagazine.com www.tidoor.com  www.wireless011.com www.nguoitinhonline.com www.phonevietnam.com Lead software developer Pfastship Logistic Inc November 1996 to December 2002 Commercial Shipping system: The purpose for this application is to provide high  volumes for warehouse packing and shipping with multi carriers modules like UPS,  FedEx, FedEx Ground, USPS Postal, Airborne, and LTL. Manifest to the all carriers  specification and send EDI at end of the day. The reports are generating to carrier  specification, VICS's bill of landing and UPS's international documents.    • Database design and implement of the back-end tier with SQL 7 and SQL 2000.  • Thin client and server using Microsoft win-sock protocol.  • Certified in programming the UPS PLD version 7 manifests and FedEx rating  server engine.  • A member of a team to oversee the architectural design of the system,  programming and implementation of the leading commercial shipping software  package, user interface, client site using DLL, win-sock protocol, and business  side object utilizing the following technologies: Visual Basic, RDS, ADO, MTS,  SQL OLEDB and ODBC. Network and Applications Consultant NetTek Inc July 1994 to November 1996 I worked for a small consultant firm building LAN from the ground up and writing  custom applications for clients. The application functioned as time tracking the employees on the vendor projects. Building PC hardware systems from swatch, run  network wires, load soft wares and configuring the Microsoft NT server, Microsoft  exchange server and Microsoft IIS server.    • Certified in training setting up the Microsoft LAN and WAN networking. Senior Programmer D&B June 1985 to July 1994 Duns and Bradstreet    I worked under division of Donnelley Information Publishing in southern California. I  have assumed a role of senior programmer in design and development for several in- 3 -3    house system applications. I supported all in-house applications, system included  mainframe accounting package and over 350 IBM-3270 personal computer machines.    • Developed front-end database system to access an IBM-3090 mainframe, System  36, System 38 and AS400 corporate computers. Implemented 25 sales offices  sites.    (YPLS) Yellow Pages Layout System: The system combines special encode in the text  line that flow the data onto the page layout send direct to printer.  (ISMS) Information Sales Management System: It is a sales management tool and enables top manager to easily forecast sales (both plan and outlook), create reports, and  process the requesting salesmen bonus plan from mainframe data to personal computer.    • Certified in accounts receivable and accounts payable mainframe NOMAD  module.  • System development utilizing the following technologies from IBM mainframe,  IBM mini system and personal computer: Dbase, API function, MVS, CICS,  JCL, VSAM, COBOL, S3090, RPG, SYS38, AS400, PC, Novell 3.12. Education B.S. in Computer Science Americus University 1985 Additional Information Over 29 years as a software programmer in Strong skills in relational database design  web sites and commercial software and system data flow design.  packages likes web Ecommerce, Telco Developing windows applications and  system, Accounting, Shipping, Warehouse, COM/DOM server components  Sales ordering systems and etc    Using MTS, Windows SDK, Windows Web site architecture and development in  API, Visual Basic, C#, VB.NET, ADO, high scalability n-tier architecture utilizing  ADO.NET, Java, ODBC, JDBC, Crystal Visual Basic, VBScript, ASP, ASP.NET,  Reports, MySql, Microsoft SQL 7, SQL ADO.NET, XML, HTML, Java, Java  2000 and SQL 2008 scripts, Microsoft SQL, CSS, Flash MX  and Crystal Reports.    Apply object-oriented methodology in In-depth knowledge in PC hardware, LAN  software design and coding. and WAN networking    Advanced working knowledge with Integrate client/shipping database by  Microsoft NT, 2000, XP and Linus. conversions using CVS or fix length.    Knowledge with JD Edward One World accounting package and SAP, also in dept of Adapt  CRM and SYSPRO ERP.