Sr. UI/UX Developer Sr. UI/UX <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI/UX Developer - I Q Innovations LLC Columbus, OH • Front End UI Developer with 9+ years' experience of solid understanding of database designing, development and installation of different modules.  • Hands on experience in Designing and Developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular JS 2, Backbone JS, AND with other UI technologies such as , JQuery, Browserify, Bootstrap3 and HTML  • Profound knowledge in Angular JS concepts like Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scopes, Controllers and Directives.  • Experience in Standardized UX templates, archetypes, and pattern libraries.  • Knowledge in HTML5/CSS3, SASS/SCSS, LESS, YAML.  • Vast experience in Web/User Interface Development and J2EE Projects.  • Experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  • Experience in JavaScript, CSS, HTML, JDBC technologies.  • Familiar in writing Custom Directives in Angular JS, making use of $scope and $rootscope objects according to the application requirement.  • Proficient in developing front-end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 and MV* frameworks.  • Experience with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.JS, Node.JS, bootstrap.JS, require .JS, etc.  • Strong J2EE Development skills including Restful, SOAP Web Services and JDBC.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, jQuery, and Ajax that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Experience in Web 2.0 applications like blog maintenance, Library Management, social networking using HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and Java Script.  • Good knowledge on Backbone.js, Responsive design.  • Extensive work experience with JavaScript, JQuery (various plug-ins), CVS, Unix Shell Script, CSS, XML and Linux.  • Experience as web developer with a strong background working on open source technologies, including JSP, PHP, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Flash, Photo shop.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Proficient with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator & Dream weaver, MS FrontPage, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, Macromedia Home Site.  • Dealing with Node.js which is an open source, cross-platform runtime environment for server-side and networking applications.  • Experienced in designing table-less layouts using Web Standards.  • Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  • Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Experience with tools like Firebug for Mozilla and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Knowledge of JavaScript and their behavior on different browsers.  • Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar.  • Sound knowledge in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Chrome.  • Experience in developing, publishing, running and maintaining websites from scratch on Linux and windows environment.  • Good experience in SQL Programming, SQL Server, MySQL.  • Highly Curious about new front-end development technologies and adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering them with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of programming solutions.  • Worked closely with the project management and marketing team to completely define specifications to help ensure project acceptance.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments. Work Experience Sr. UI/UX Developer I Q Innovations LLC - Columbus, OH April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system as well as CSS3 media queries to layout contents that fit to different devices including mobiles, tablets and desktops.  • Wrote AJAX calls with JSON responses and all JavaScript is written in JSON format.  • Worked on Bitbucket and used it as a source control version tool, to manage the code repository.  • Worked on Adobe CQ, JSON, Telerik Controls and HP quality center.  • Worked through cross-browser compatibility issues with layouts and styles and fixed major CSS 3 bugs for supported browsers and platforms.  • Tested lengthy JavaScript codes with Node.JS.  • Worked extensively on Web Sockets, Groovy, design material.  • Worked on Ad Hoc queries, replica tests, aggregation in MongoDB 3.2.10.  • Worked on Jasmine test cases along with Karma and Protractor.  • Converted data from database into JSON format files and retrieved the same in the form of Restful APIs.  • Worked on Adobe Experience Manager.  • Injected KnockoutJS and ReactJS components in the webpages to enhance the responsive design.  • Worked on Ruby on Rails giving structures for databases, web services and web pages.  • Worked on different components of Web Services, including MVC architecture of Angular JS, using directives, controllers and filters.  • Worked extensively on JIRA Confluence.  • Developed prototypes for various web components using Axure.  • Worked on event-driven user interface using Angular JS.  • Co-ordinated with the QAT and SVT teams, to test the user experience.  • Held meetings with the client to develop layout, color scheme and layout for color component and implemented it into a final interface design using HTML, CSS and Angular JS. VALA tech VALA March 2016 to April 2017 UI/UX Developer    Responsibilities:  • Provide UI/UX feedback to improve software design and implementation.  • Enhance and create new graphics, including complete re-design of existing websites using Photoshop and hardcode HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Making the theme Responsive mock-up using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript compatible with all devices like mobile, tablet, laptop and desktop.  • Worked on single page applications using AngularJS 2.0.  • Instituted user centered design processes, built personas, storyboards, wireframes, interactive prototypes (using Marvel) & completed thorough user research to facilitate the creation of user friendly software UI's.  • Used $http with AngularJS interceptors to make sure the requests were valid and used ui-router to handle nested views and avoid page redirection.  • Used PHP/MySQL for backend.  • Executing the test plans on web and mobile as per requirements.  • Produced and developed web content with CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and PHP.  • Connecting the designed theme with databases and site deployment using AJAX and PHP.  • Designing required databases using MySQL.  • Moved projects to public sector that is created different application on marketing products. UI Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ December 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Enhance the UI using HTML, CSS, Java Script, Ruby, JAVA, JSP, RWD, XML, and JSP as per the requirements and provided the client side using JQuery validations.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Angular JS, Ext JS design. Developed application for different browsers and fixed bugs for browser compatibility.  • Interacted and worked with cross-functional teams. Used Java script, Grunt.js and Angular JS 2.0 for client side validations. Pretty good knowledge on Typescript.  • Worked on managing application state with Redux. Worked on spring and Hibernate.  • Worked on various JavaScript Frameworks depending on the use case (e.g. JQuery, React JS, Angular JS, Ext JS).  • Worked on Responsive web pages (RWD) using Bootstrap, RESTful API web development and media queries.  • Worked on Cloud Applications and Polymer. Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS in creating animations based on CSS classes. Used MongoDB as cross-platform storage for load balancing, indexing and file storage.  • Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQUERY. Worked on JavaScript tools like Grunt,Gulp, NPM and Bower.  • Used NoSQL as the storage purpose for its simplicity and horizontal scaling to clusters.  • Involved in implementing data grid/tables using Bootstrap and Angular JS for front-end client facing of the Single Page applications (SPA). UI Developer Melville, NY October 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS as per company's standards.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented design process upon client approval and built out all assets: buttons, products shots, UI components, etc.  • Utilized various JQUERY plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Involved in team meetings with corporate webmaster's UI team and end user client for understanding needs in new implementation & Involved in daily team meetings & weekly scrum meetings.  • Migrated content from existing website to a new, database driven website; utilized in house Content management System  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS &JavaScript using Dreamweaver CS3.  • Identified the way to increase the search engine optimization (SEO) and social media friendly.  • Guided team into developing an effective organic SEO campaign and key phrase selection strategy.  • Designed multiple UI's (templates) for the website and discussed with team members before coming to a final conclusion.  • Assist with walk-through and usability testing. Updated UI per changing needs and requirements.  • Design layouts and icons with Photoshop for technical specification documents and converts them to HTML prototypes with Web 2.0 standards with compatibility to different browser, platform and accessibility guidelines.  Ensure Website quality, performance and reliability UI Developer/ Web Analyst IBM - Piscataway, NJ June 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed the functionality for communicating between the modules mostly involved in VIEW and CONTOLLER section of MVC pattern for Quality Control(QC) app project.  • Used the AngularJS in the development of the QC application.  • Used jasmine-node package to run unit tests from console.  • Building user interfaces differently by breaking them into components using REACT.  • Using a real, full featured programming language to render views, with REACT.  • Used React on the server for SEO , performance , code sharing and overall flexibility.  • Continuously deploying a node.js application with Jasmine.  • Testing asynchronous javascript method calls with jasmine.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developed User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON. Typical operations performed by shell scripts include file manipulation, program execution, and printing text.  • Developed YUI Benchmark, a JavaScript performance testing toolkit for web and Node.js applications.  • Developed, tested, and deployed Storify Business features in Node.js with Express and MongoDB backend, incorporating APIs from Twitter, Typekit, Stripe, and others for Storify features.  • Worked with Agile UX and Lean UX approaches to the modified design processes that fit the way clients and consumers expect modern products and services to be delivered.  • Making sure react is flexible and provides hooks that allow you to interface with other libraries and frameworks.  • Responsible for react abstracts away the DOM from you, giving a simpler programming model and better performance.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive design (RWD) concept and media queries. Dealing with DOM inspector and D3.js (or just D3 for Data-Driven Documents) is a JavaScript library for producing dynamic, interactive data visualizations in web browsers.  • Performed Unit Testing and code coverage with Karma and Jasmine.  • Making sure react has the virtual DOM thing, what makes the rendering super fast but still keeps it easily understandable and controllable at the same time.  • Reviewing the aggregate stats in the MongoDB log file and analyzing the queries in each family or group.  • Supports fixed-size collections called capped collections in MongoDB.  • Downloading a compressed archive of MongoDB data files and distribute those files before restarting the MongoDB processes.  • Used Selenium testing framework for automated tests.  • Continuous delivery/Continuous Integration (CD/CI) using Jenkins/CloudBees and hostage of QC App on AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Created web services and desktop applications to access and display data needed by support teams using, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery, Backbone.js, Angular. Js, Node.js, Java, CSS and HTML.  • Involved in team meetings with corporate webmaster's UI team and end user client for understanding needs in new implementation & Involved in daily team meetings & weekly scrum meetings.  • Used all the advanced Photoshop features to create appealing visual web interfaces.  • Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar, for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Extensively used Spring JDBC template and Hibernate for performing Database Transactions.  • Cache Layer/ Data Access Layer (DAL) Module is developed to cache data for efficient service operation responses using Core Java and internal framework Libraries.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces. Web/UI Developer Multi Plan - New York, NY July 2009 to May 2010 Responsibilities:  • Rapidly prepared and implemented product specifications, including designing and creating "rich wire frames" to visually facilitate understanding of user interactions in features and concepts.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developed User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON.  • Responsible for authoring of website functionality with JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3.  • Designed and implemented the integration layer for client-server communication using Spring MVC.  • Used Centralized CSS, AJAX and Java Script in order to provide client specific Look and Feel.  • Designed Logos and Templates using HTML, DHTML, CSS, and Adobe Photoshop.  • Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive design and media queries.  • Used the YUI library in the development of the web applications.  • Installing jasmines NPM package for specifications.  • Using Jasmine's it block to set up and test the status code.  • Responsible for outputs by MongoDB for reporting and configuration, as the output of the server Status and the replica set configuration document.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as ExceptionHandling, CollectionAPIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Adding users to MongoDB in order to authenticate a client in MongoDb.  • Creating a backup by copying MongoDB's underlying data files.  • Recovering data from MongoDB data files that were not properly closed or have an invalid state.  • Used Jquery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Used CSS Scripts to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Designed the email blasts using Adobe software and then implemented them using HTML and Java script.  • Designed, developed and implemented user acceptance testing cases and plans.  • Communicated frequently with clients regarding applications functionality requirements.  • Used complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Involved in integrating different social networking site like Facebook, twitter.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Used all the advanced Photoshop features to create appealing visual web interfaces.  • Involved in testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  • Established testing environments and resolved issues prior to execution.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Responsible for developing UAT test process and monitoring SIT execution phases  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (5 years), HTML5 (5 years), Java (4 years), JavaScript (8 years), Photoshop (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages C, C++, JAVA, J2EE, JSP, JMS, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Stripes  Development Tools Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop. Visual Studio, Eclipse-3.2.1, Notepad++.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, DHTML, XSLT and Ajax. AngularJS  IDE's and Tools Eclipse IDE, NetBean, Dreamweaver, FireBug, Developer Tools, EditPlus, Sublimetext  Server Apache, IIS, Tomcat.  Debugging Tools Firebug, IE Developer Toolbar, Firebug Lite, Chrome or Safari web inspectors.  Databases MS SQL Server, MySQL, and Oracle,  Operating System Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista, UNIX, LINUX, MS-DOS, Mac OS X