PROJECT MANAGER / SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR PROJECT MANAGER / SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR Project/Operations Manager Garner, NC Project manager with recent training and certifications and 20+ years of experience in internet communications, information management, web design and development as well as community development. Collaborative team-leader and team-player who can adjust to fast changing needs. Experience with bringing remote teams together from various disciplines to deliver a well-rounded solution. Ability to meet rapidly changing client needs. Seeking a development and/or management position that involves information development, work with community platforms, CMS, LMS, and/or Operations Management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PROJECT MANAGER / SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR PLEIO, INC - Remote August 2013 to Present Provide support in the areas of project management, technical support, data analysis, and web development for a healthcare-oriented corporation. Focus on development and integration methods across multiple platforms for content management, technical implementation and client support. Process and marketing development. Current work with Moodle, Adobe, SQL, PHP.    • Research, design, and development of new LMS for customized training. Currently serving as system administrator while training and supporting training personnel. Migrated Moodle LMS to Amazon Web Services. Converted SCORM content to H5P modules.    • Served as the primary technical support for corporate website including recruiting site which required automated testing and integration of responses into a CMS to expedite screening and hiring process during rapid changes in staffing requirements. Crucial IA/Information management with web development.    • Project management to facilitate continuity of operations over multiple business launch schedules involving coordination across entire organization to meet tight client deadlines.    • Support of internal web and CMS systems; Moodle, Podio, Drupal, custom environments.    • Provide data support to track incoming raw data from multiple vendors and systems on a daily basis; identify trends and coordinate contacts. PROJECT MANAGER/ WEB DEVELOPER CAROLINA DREAM DESIGNS - Garner, NC March 2012 to Present Volunteer and consultant work in the design and development of small business and non-profit web sites. Moodle, WordPress, custom CMS.    • Redesigning and developing established tax school Moodle LMS with updated Moodle software, themes, plugins, accessibility guidelines and H5P implementation.    • Providing web site development and design elements for small local businesses. PROJECT MANAGER/ WEB DEVELOPER IBM - Research Triangle Park, NC November 2004 to December 2012 Supported web and digital design and development work with multiple IBM departments both in project management and technical development needs. Project management and team leadership across multiple disciplines incorporating writing, editing, design, information architecture and programming. Community information architecture, design, development using IBM Connections.    Marketing and communications with emails, newsletters, web sites and communities; both internal and external facing following all IBM standards and guidelines. Analytical and organizational skills in information transfer and communications.    • Served on a multidisciplinary team to create a first of a kind reference web site for IBM sellers to find and get information on the all IBM Client Centers located around the globe. Primary site to enable seller to know what locations to take IBM customers to learn about IBM products and services with an overview of the areas of expertise for each center. Designed database to manage the complex set of parameters that defined each Client Center. Secondary focus was creation of common template to be used by the individually maintained client center web sites both in HTML and kiwi markup. Headed development team that applied that template for multiple divisions and organizations ensuring consistency of sites while allowing for customization across all IBM. Project span 3+ years.    • Key lead role for IBM Connections design, development and deployment within department and client projects.    • Team leadership role to establish HTML email and newsletter standards and guidelines as well as coding templates to produce consistent results using multiple tools and delivery options inside and outside IBM. Worked with IBM Standards to set standards, create and deploy training.    • Primary involvement in departmental initiative to develop consistent pricing matrix and rework project management and billing database for operational support. SOFTWARE ENGINEER IBM - Research Triangle Park, NC December 1999 to November 2003 Project Manager/ Web Developer: Designed and implemented primary marketing web site serving as source of critical information for all software professionals within a 350,000-person worldwide organization.    • Creation and development of site design for corporate brand marketing materials, increasing usability, efficiency and traffic in providing needed materials to all software marketing departments by 20%.    • Independently coordinated and maintained marketing web site for over 30-day period while primary lead was unavailable; required frequent communications with multiple contacts in various locations to ensure viability of site.    • Developed more efficient methods of delivering easily updated content across standard sections of the site utilizing varied programming and markup languages within the constraints of a Domino driven structure.    • Ensured consistency and adherence to corporate standards across 4000+ page web site.    • Assisted with reorganization and development of various internal and external software web sites. SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE NC STATE UNIVERSITY - Raleigh, NC January 1991 to December 1999 Program management for research and extension programs. Web and print content development and publishing. Account management and auditing per government and state regulations. Data collection and analysis. Event management.    • Created primary web sites, electronic and print media for cross departmental research and extension programs serving the Southeastern U.S.    • Organized teaching seminars in the field for over 100 people (on average seven times yearly) complete with print and electronic advertising, registration, seminar materials, catering and other support needs.    • Coordinated and published departmental reports both in print and electronic format which required organizing content from over 20 different sources into professional standards of publication. Education A.A.S in WEB TECHNOLOGIES WAKE TECHNICAL COMMUNITY COLLEGE 2014 to 2016 Interdisciplinary Studies UNIVERSITY OF NC at Chapel Hill - Chapel Hill, NC 1999 to 2005 MULTIMEDIA MANAGEMENT/WEBMASTER NC STATE UNIVERSITY 1992 to 2004 A.A.S in COMPUTER PROGRAMMING DURHAM TECHNICAL COMMUNITY COLLEGE 1983 to 1985 Skills H5P, HTML, Community Relations Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/marthahufham