Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Silverhill, AL Advanced Web Developer with extensive experience in structuring, developing and implementing interactive websites. Deep knowledge and proficiency in JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and mobile responsive web development, as well as strong ability to write clean and efficient code. Innovative use of technology to drive traffic and engage users. Able to complete projects efficiently and satisfy customers with attractive, user-friendly websites.     Expertise includes:  Project Management • Website Optimization • Web Development • SEO •   Landing Page Development • Programming and Design • Collaboration • Problem-Solving Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer West Corporation - Mobile, AL September 2015 to June 2019 Company Website (PHP, JS, CSS, Ajax, Grunt, Git)  WordPress site required a search and filter feature based on three criteria and icons based on type of resource.   • Created a php template page with arrays.  • Used Ajax to allow the data to render without page reloads.  • Designed an administration section and logic to make it simple to add additional items.  • Utilized Grunt to update the existing Sass/CSS files.  • Tested pre-production site using GitLab.     Canadian Civic/Government Website (CSS, HTML, XSLT, JS)   • Created 23 custom forms based on site’s existing paper forms.  • Utilized JavaScript to add dynamic repeating fields.  • Created rental form with auto-calculating fields for subtotals, taxes based on percentages and partial payments.  • Created a form with auto-generated id numbers.  • Created form with date/time stamp automatically inserted on submit.    Special Project (SASS, CSS, HTML)  • Converted company library of 13 standardized forms for client websites to a simplified structure with responsive design. Form types included appointment requests, surveys, medical history forms and feedback requests.   • Utilized input attributes to make more customer-friendly,   • Standardized forms with HTML5 semantic elements to clearly define sections.  • Used best practice principles to ensure ADA compliance.  • Created detailed documentation on the installation and customization of forms.    TeleVox Healthcare Websites (CSS, HTML, XSLT, JS, ASP.Net)  • Translated design team’s UX wireframes and mockups into responsive, interactive websites, using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Followed best practice principles to improve efficiency with responsive design utilizing Flexbox.  • Used keyframes, transitions and transforms to create esthetically pleasing movement on client websites.  • Tested all sites to verify ADA compliance.  • Created custom render templates with XSLT for feature areas and callout areas.  • Evaluated front-end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility.. Web Master West Corporation - Mobile, AL April 2012 to September 2015 Utilized Microsoft's CRM to create customized dashboards for management team (Microsoft CRM).  • Maintained a large philanthropic website. (Cold Fusion)  • Created custom html-to-pdf forms for customers. (CSS, HTML, Adobe Acrobat)  • Used LogMeIn, remotely accessing client computers to address email issues and to help train customers in managing basic functions on their website. Freelance Marketing and Website Development Upwork.com January 2007 to April 2012 Logged over 2,000 hours and performed multiple tasks:  • Designed, including marketing materials (both print and digital)  • Web design/development (WordPress, Zen cart, Flash, Joomla, CSS ) Education Bachelor of Music in Music University of South Alabama - Mobile, AL Skills Wordpress, NET, HTML, PHP, Javascript Links http://linkedin.com/in/lauraflorey http://www.lauraflorey.com http://www.lauraflorey.com Assessments Graphic Design — Highly Proficient July 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nhpa8xysyleaeybl Technical Support — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jxdagwg1g1ykpaqu Search Engine Optimization — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/o29kzavddz2tjqcq Market Research — Proficient July 2019 Analyzing data and using market research tools Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/clft8ymzucmoldvb Problem Solving — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9c7h52cg-mmmn3lq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Ongoing online coursework: C#, ES6 JavaScript, WordPress, React, SQL, Web Development