Web Content Manager / Front-end Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Content Manager / Front-end <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Content Manager / Developer Brambleton, VA Self-motivated and technically savvy Web Content Manager / Front-End Developer with over 12 years of experience developing website content and managing content management systems including Joomla and WordPress. Expertise in Front-End Development Technologies including HTML and CSS. Adept at managing and formatting web content for multiple high-traffic websites. Ability to convert layout, PSD and wireframes into clean and working HTML pages. Productive in both team-based and self-managed projects; enjoy learning and staying current on cutting edge technology and latest trends. Work Experience Web Content Manager / Front-end Web Developer Independent Consultant August 2015 to Present Independent Consultant | Virginia, USA  ? Oversee website content development and management.  ? Implemented and maintained content management systems (primarily WordPress and Joomla), including installation, configuration, troubleshooting and SSL certificate installation. Developed and deployed upgrade/migration plans for content management systems.  ? Designed and managed the custom t-shirt Wordpress/Woocommerce theme for Logic Prints, a start-up printing company in California that generated more than $245,000 of revenue during its first 18 months.  ? Managed and updated the STATEWIDE FINANCIAL SYSTEM (SFS), New York Intranet and public Joomla CMS website..  ? Responsible for the design layout, information architecture and content upload of the LOVEBEYONDWALLS.ORG website. Conducted research to gain insights into the story Love Beyond Walls wanted to tell by exploring articles, videos, and similar organizations who had attempted to address the issue of homelessness. Designed and developed a WordPress website that incorporated the brand colors (Crimson Red, Ruby Red and White), key phrases and action words, captivating imagery, and simple navigation to tell Love Beyond Wall's story.  ? Led numerous B2B and B2C development and redesign projects, most of which cleaned up stale content and prioritized the most important messaging that resulted in a simplified user experience and a higher volume of warm leads from web to sales staff..  ? Designed and developed the CCG Consulting, CONSULTINGCHEYENNE.COM responsive website, including content upload.  ? Created graphics and web design using HTML, CSS and Adobe Creative Suite with some Javascript and Flash for various branded events, campaigns and web content enhancements.  ? Produced daily and weekly responsive email newsletters and promotions.  ? Provide on-call technical support as well as website maintenance.. Head, Web Development Services / Web Content Manager 70th Precinct Limited March 2014 to August 2015 Nigeria  ? Responsible for the operation of web-related IT infrastructure, including data administration, security, and content management.  ? Ensured flawless daily operation as well as strategically plan for the future, with duties including careful 'make-or-buy' decisions, as well as technical guidance of the in-house development team.  ? Designed and Developed fully functional responsive websites based on client requirements using WordPress, Joomla, HTML and CSS.  ? Executed web development projects, with an emphasis on front end features, browser manipulation, and cross-browser compatibility.  ? Produced website content through original research.  ? Responsible for resource planning and recruiting technical staff for web development and operations. Web Content Developer / Project Manager Basement Multimedia January 2008 to March 2014 Nigeria  ? Responsible for Content Management System design, setup and configuration, MySQL Database creation and administration using Moodle LMS and Joomla CMS.  ? Managed and administered all functions of client's public website, intranet, and other related sites.  ? Created and analyzed web analytics reports using WebTrends.  ? Trained and advised clients on how to use content management system.  ? Created graphics for web and print.  ? Assisted individuals and corporate clients in developing new and emerging forms of online communication. Web Content Manager Neo Multimedia Concepts January 2006 to January 2008 Nigeria.  ? Updated content and created new landing pages for interactive promotions.  ? Formatted news articles and selected graphics.  ? Created new web pages and updated existing ones using Joomla and Wordpress CMS.  ? Designed and developed responsive newsletters, CSS and HTML coding, optimization of graphics, illustrations, photos and web icons. Multimedia Instructor / Academic Counselor (Faculty) National Institute for Information Technology (NIIT) October 2004 to January 2006 Nigeria  ? Handled the tasks of teaching and counseling in multimedia concepts, visual communication, digital interactive communication and web development.  ? Delivered hands-on training to students, corporate entities and Faculties from various NIIT centers on software like; Adobe flash, Fireworks, Premiere, Photoshop, Sound Forge etc  ? Provided guidelines to students to help complete course projects. Education Multimedia & Digital Film Animation National Institute for Information Technology (NIIT) 2004 Bachelor of Science in Geography in Geography University of Ibadan 2000 Skills Adobe Illustrator (7 years), Adobe Photoshop (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Adobe Flash (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Wordpress (10+ years), Joomla (10+ years), JQuery (5 years), Moodle (10+ years), SEO (5 years), Adobe Fireworks (10+ years) Links http://www.basementmultimedia.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Adobe Photoshop / Adobe Fireworks / Adobe Illustrator / Adobe flash  Wordpress / Joomla / Moodle LMS  HTML / CSS / JQuery  Google Analytics / SEO / Mailchimp