Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Rutgers University Township of Brick, NJ Experienced Computer Engineering  professional with multi-faceted expertise in  an IT environment. Extensive experience in  web development, content management  systems and e-commerce. Computer  assembly, troubleshooting, repairing,  imaging and operating system installation,  networking, software development and  maintenance, configuration and security of  all corresponding media technology. An  established IT business owner with over 14  years of experience in developing strategies  and working closely with clients.    Strong medical practice management  background. Reviewed all veterinary  programs and ensured compliance to all  organizational objectives. Developed new  plans and policies and analyzed all existing  policies and plans. Analyzed various  statistical data and determined cause of all  problems and implemented improvements.  Coordinated with government officials and  resolved all veterinary issues. Monitored  working and ensured achievement of all  program objectives and maintained quality  of programs. Provided management support  to all veterinarian staff and ensured optimal  quality services to clients. Assisted various  animal protection programs and worked  with law enforcement units.    CONTACT    ADDRESS:  722 Schindler Dr. Brick, NJ 08723    PHONE:  848-248-2995    EMAIL:  sunfiremyth@aol.com    LINKEDIN:  www.linkedin.com/in/jennifertuorto    Wharfside Animal  Hospital  Practice  M  anager/Lead Tech    1990 - 2000  Head Technician with directive to plan, coordinate and perform a  variety of duties in an animal health environment. Client education  in support of the Practice, Owner/Doctor and Office Manager to  ensure quality care for patients and to promote greater efficiency  by assuming technical and administrative work and managing  details. Supervised hospital staff including management, technicians,  and assistants in all medical aspects of the practice.    Demonstrated the mastery of all routine technician skills such as:  client communication/education, animal behavior, IV catheter  placement, Injections, exam room protocol, laboratory analysis,  microscopic procedures, radiography, ultrasound, pharmaceutical  prescriptions, anesthesia and surgical monitoring and equipment  care, surgical assistance, hospitalized patient care, dentistry,  vaccinations and preventive care.    Have written several Safety Protocol books including OSHA  Standards and procedure manuals. Inventory control,  demonstrated the ability to read and interpret medical documents  such as complex patient charts, vaccine histories, laboratory and  radiology results. Have effectively spoken before large groups of  customers or employees of the hospital.    Known to graciously deal with client complaints and billing  questions. Successful communication with diverse personality  types. Ability to quickly grasp and master technological  advancements in computer performance and electronic methods of  veterinary medicine and practice data.    SKILLS    100%  80%  100%  40%  100%  100%  100%  100%  100%  HTML  JavaScript  CSS/SASS  PHP  Communication  Management  CMS  PC Repair  Installation    JENNIFER  TUORTO  Computer  Technology Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Rutgers University March 2019 to Present Developed Drupal 8 sites via new installs and Drupal 7 upgrades.  Directly responsible for support ticket issues, maintenance, updates and modules on both Drupal 7 and 8 University websites.  Developed a fully functional and successful web-based logo  generator to be used to generate University logos University-wide.  Trained for Drupal 9. Developed custom Drupal templates  compatible with Drupal 7, 8 and 9. Usage of major components for development including; Git, Twig, Docksal, Linux, Putty and  Cygwin on both Macintosh and Windows computers. Owner/Senior Web Developer SunFire Creations 2005 to 2018 Owner and lead developer responsible for developing websites with a seamless Internet experience. Designs websites to captivate  an audience with ease of usability, online presence, Search Engine  Optimization while fulfilling client vision. Strong communication  skills in working closely with clients to develop successful custom  websites as well as custom templates for Wordpress, Drupal, and Joomla. Creating detailed training videos and presentations for  client education to enhance their knowledge to update and advertise their website. HTML, CSS, Javascript, Custom Forms,  online booking systems, MySQL database creation and management, PHP, JQuery animations and forms, and Adobe. Owner/Senior Technician SunFire Creations 2005 to 2018 Owner and lead technician with excellent analytical problem- solving skills and outstanding communication skills.  Proficiently designed and maintained network infrastructure, data  backups and recovery, hardware services and repair, software  updates, patches, installation, database creation / management / repair, monitored and managed email spam, firewalls, anti-virus,  forensics, system vulnerability, operating system re-imaging, installation and repair, created personalized remote access  software, video and audio production/editing, peripheral  installation and configuration, tablet and mobile configuration, virtual environments, ListServ development and maintenance, client  education, and account maintenance tasks. Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jennifertuorto