Senior Web Analyst Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> Analyst Senior Web Analyst Rogersville, MO Dedicated full stack web developer with experience in database administration,  front and back end design.    Ability to work efficiently while balancing multiple projects and application issues  during a normal work day. Can lead, manage, supervise, project manage  development resources. Working with varied team members to accomplish the  project task.    Able to interface with client executives, client user base, . Can work with business  process owners & discern requirements and develop solutions, Work Experience Senior Web Analyst Visual Communications Group, Inc - Burnsville, MN October 2015 to July 2019 Visual Communication Group is a Cold Fusion, MS SQL database shop managing  over 600 web properties. I developed and supported a variety of different web  applications that the company managed.    My Focus  Cold Fusion  JQuery  SQL database administration  Front and back end design  importing and exporting data  Helping resolve tickets with customer service  Interfacing with clients on issues that needed to be resolved    During my time with the company I worked on many different projects and applications. From simple day to day debugging to resolution. I had to be flexible to work on multiple projects during the same day or focusing down on the same  project for weeks at a time. In a sense the projects were sometimes a constant  moving target which kept us on our toes by having flexibility to modify the project  scope as well as focus on multiple tasks.    My responsibilities included  Defining projects and setting time frames to complete projects or milestones.  Creating Cold Fusion applications from start to finish, including testing.  Integrating JavaScript or JQuery when and where needed.  Working with the code, design and SQL integration of various applications.  Working directly with clients to resolve issues or process instruction. Owner Quill Design, LLC - Rogersville, MO January 2004 to November 2015 Quill Design was a company I started as a Cold Fusion eCommerce solution for developers and end users. I realized the need for a solid eCommerce solution that  a developer could take and build upon. We filled that need for thousands of websites developers and store owners.    Quill Design expanded into additional web application development focusing on Cold Fusion. Most of our development revolved around our eCommerce solution but spread into other relating applications for small to medium sized companies.    Quill Design provided support for companies doing $100k to over $1 million in sales.  In many cases we helped them from start to finish on their projects. Working with all different levels of end users, from business executives to data entry, helping  them define their workflow and marketing direction to boost incremental sales to their eCommerce website. We also provided support for internal systems and  developed supporting applications to help their business run smoother. Senior Web Application Developer Bass Pro Shops - Springfield, MO November 1999 to January 2004 Sold content website (outdoorsite.com) to Bass Pro Shops who in turn hired me to increase content for basspro.com and other web properties.    Became the department head over content and design of basspro.com managing  all aspects that went into the flow of the website. This also lead to managing and developing with my team multiple Bass Pro Shops websites.    Our goal was to increase viewers on basspro.com and extend the time spent using the website. This is turn would help basspro.com as a brand for online outdoor gear  as opposed to their competitors.    While I was there we increased online sales from approximately $5 Million a year to over $80 million a year. Education High school or equivalent Skills Cold fusion, Ecommerce, Database administration, Database, Javascript Additional Information Skills Cold Fusion (19 years) Javascript/JQuery    Database Administration CFWheels, Coldbox, FW1    Bootstrap, Foundation ECommerce Strategies    SEO techniques PCI Implementation    Troubleshooting Resolution