Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - The Kimball Group Columbia, MD Passionate Microsoft evangelist with more than 15 years of experience designing, coding, and implementing web applications. Work Experience Full Stack Developer The Kimball Group - Bethesda, MD April 2017 to Present • Delivered the Global Matter Registration MVC 5 web application to DLA Piper, thus allowing partners to track client/matter setup. Responsible for transforming functional specifications to MVP 1.0 using Azure DevOps and an Agile methodology. Adhered to SOLID design principles throughout development, ending with a loosely coupled system allowing Ninject for dependency injection testing. Responsive front end leveraged jQuery, AJAX, jQuery UI, Bootstrap, and theming options.  • Created a custom SAML 2.0 SSO module leveraging IMIS as the Identify Provider for the American Staffing Agency. Incorporated ComponentSpace to initiate SSO and pass through assertion. Performed metadata exchange with Service Providers, typically receiving bulk XML over the wire to generate saml.config which contained EntityID, AssertionURL, and custom attributes.  • Responsible for complete development of ASLA job bank. Application consisting of iParts (.ascx's) embedded in RISE content pages. Made use of Bootstrap and jQuery to render responsive GUI.  • Tasked with decompiling DLL's, obfuscating code, documenting source, developing Proof of concepts, and completing work orders for ISG Solutions. Contract Web Developer Lithien Technologies - Reston, VA January 2013 to April 2017 • Enhanced security of corporate applications thus preventing possible SQL injection attacks, XSS, and submission of vulnerable data following coordinated application security runs.  • Incorporated Entity Framework LINQ to Objects ORM mapping to replace existing data access inside current applications.  • Composed win services to run on specified intervals completing daily file I/O and thus reducing redundant manual tasks.  • Managed complex design projects for corporate clients and maintained optimal workflow.  • Developed reusable business logic library using C# for communication within an n-tiered application architecture. Developer Advisor Resolution Health - Columbia, MD November 2007 to January 2013 • Adopted Visual Studio / Team Foundation Server ALM and IDE to develop win forms, win services, web apps, and web services.  • Involved in integration, regression, and user acceptance testing within TFS.  • Assigned lead technical writer for requirements analysis, use cases (UML), high / low level test design documents, and technical specifications.  • Reviewed developer code bi-weekly to determine if source adhered to C# guidelines and best practices.  • Interfaced with internal designers, business, and management teams to meet quarterly requirements.  • Estimated LOE's, acquired technical resources, and delivered proof of concepts to CTO. Consultant emagination network, llc - Baltimore, MD November 2006 to November 2007 • Developed an online merchandise system for a private client (HealthyDirections) which incorporated Ektron CMS, Commerce Server 2007, and ASP.NET 3.0.  • Designed, developed, and implemented SSIS packages to consolidate the client's heterogeneous data stores.  • Worked inside an Agile environment which included daily scrums (emphasized daily goals and raised potential issues on an individual level), required frequent communication with the client representatives, acknowledged changing requirements, and used functional software as the principle measure of our success at the end of each iteration.  • Served as a technical expert to the client's business team from initial design to product delivery. Developer IAMAW - Upper Marlboro, MD September 2005 to October 2006 • Migrated desktop and web-based applications to the .NET framework using Visual Studio.  • Performed systems analysis of software to determine if retrofitting existing application was a feasible solution.  • Developed proof of concepts and written proposals for new software design and implementation.  • Incorporated existing security model (COM objects wrapped in classic ASP) inside new ASP.NET intranet applications.  • Utilized various ADO.NET objects such as the Data Set, Table, View, Adapter, and Reader to perform basic CRUD operations from a SQL 2005 RDBMS. Consultant SM Consulting - Linthicum, MD May 2005 to September 2005 • Worked on contract to deliver the Web Enabled File Management System Milestone 9 (electronic notifications) to the Workers' Compensation Commission of Maryland website.  • Analyzed the functional requirements of the milestone and developed web services in Visual Studio to automate the process of email notification to active subscribers.  • Designed the physical and logical architecture of each enhancement, and performed testing and rollout of the milestone.  • Developed a customized web interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and the AJAX control Toolkit. Software Engineer Lippincott Williams & Wilkins - Baltimore, MD September 2000 to May 2005 • Built a desktop utility to parse daily XML dumps and provide the backend for Stedman's Electronic Quick Look Drug Book.  • Created a transparent application server to process request threads and provide XML response packets.  • Designed the overall technical architecture, performed the selection of development tools, and developed the interactive design for an online dictionary of medical abbreviations, acronyms and symbols.  • Assisted in developing a data tier for applications; created table, views, and stored procedures inside SQL Server. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University - Blacksburg, VA August 1995 to September 1999 Bachelor's Skills Javascript, Jquery, C# (10+ years), Asp.Net (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Agile (10+ years), TFS (10+ years) Links http://tech.bradocoleman.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/bradocoleman/ Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) August 2007 to Present Microsoft Certified Application Developer (MCAD) August 2007 to Present