Web Developer/Internet Consultant <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Internet Consultant Web Application Developer/Internet Consultant Monroe, ME Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer/Internet Consultant Self Employed - Clemmons, NC August 2015 to 2019 Freelance Web Development projects using mainly open source components and applications, Internet Consulting and Online Marketing. Web Programmer Links Web Design - Bangor, ME June 2015 to August 2015 Worked on general website development projects, using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, etc.. Web Developer Self Employed September 2010 to June 2015 Performed Web Development projects on a freelance basis, utilizing PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, etc. Also buying and selling of mostly guitar related music gear on eBay and Craigslist. Lead Web Developer Vacation Hotdeal Companies - Dover, NH 2004 to August 2010 Performed any and all duties relating to web site and web application creation, development, and maintenance: requirements gathering, project management, design work, (X)HTML and CSS coding, Javascript, advanced level PHP and MySQL, creating RSS feeds, the building, setup, deployment and ongoing system administration of all internal Web, Data, Data Replication, DNS and Email servers (and also configuration and maintenance of external servers and hosting accounts), as well as Development and Staging servers utilizing version control (Subversion). Also exposed to and involved with all areas of Search Engine Optimization (SEO), Pay Per Click (PPC), Analytics and Online Marketing in general.    In addition, acted as the Web Lead, where I was involved in interviewing all prospective new hires in the IT department, as well as defining coding standards, website architecture for new/re-developed websites, evaluation of potential new applications and technologies for potential use within the company, and developing both internal and external web applications. Web Developer Self Employed April 1995 to 2004 Performed Web Development projects on a freelance basis. This included Graphic Design, HTML, Database Development, Web Application Development, Web Server Administration, ColdFusion, Classic ASP, PHP, PERL, SQL, MySQL, SQL Server, Javascript, DHTML, CSS, etc.    Clients included AllVertical (shooters.com) and Ensky Corporation.    Other work included selling on Ebay, Internet Consulting, System Administration for a small ISP. Tradesman 1st Class Simplex Technologies, Inc - Newington, NH September 1986 to April 1995 Worked in all aspects of system assembly, evaluation, and repair of fiber optic telecommunications cables for both industry and government, as well as some work on commercial power cable products. This included but was not limited to: Optical Fiber Splicing, Termination, Repair of Conductor and Insulation, physical evaluation, X-rays, the use of measuring devices such as calipers and micrometers, and the use, maintenance, and rebuilding of various types of injection molding machines. Also familiar with Extrusion procedures and other procedures used in the manufacture of cable and wire products.    Acted as supervisor on many occasions, sometimes for months at a time, in charge of crews of up to 30 people or more with various job skills and 12 or more Production Lines/Workstations. Learned a great deal from this experience with regard to managing people and resources.    Received training in many aspects of Quality Control, Lab Processes (related to cable, wire and raw materials testing) as well as X-ray training. Machine Operator Carol Cable Co - Manchester, NH August 1985 to September 1986 Duties: Operation of several types of machinery used in the manufacture of wire and cable products including injection molding machines and extrusion machines.    Also acted as floor person responsible for organization and supply of all raw materials used in dept. and organization of all finished product.    Received some training in Quality Inspection. Assistant Manager/Manager Colonial House Restaurant - Hooksett, NH August 1984 to July 1985 Trained in and performed all duties pertaining to the operation of a  restaurant, including cooking, cleaning, serving, bookkeeping, payroll, hiring and firing, scheduling  employees, inventory control and ordering, etc. Education General Accounting and Computer Programming Morse School Of Business - Hartford, CT 1981 to 1982 Electronics, Computers, Photography Bangor High School - Bangor, ME 1976 to 1980 Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), DHTML (10+ years), Coldfusion (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), XHTML (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), IIS (10+ years), DOS (10+ years), Database Administration (10+ years), Database Development (10+ years), Apache (10+ years), Wordpress, Drupal, Bootstrap, HTML5, Jquery