Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - A-Check Global Work Experience Software Developer A-Check Global - Riverside, CA November 2018 to Present Build, enhance, and modify Web API's to integrate with vendor and client systems to handle different data formats and types (XML, JSON) for processing and posting back information  ? Optimize data receivers to use more generics data types and decrease hardcoded stagnant code to allow for better flexibility and reusability among multiple clients and vendors  ? Manage and implement different testing environments, development and staging, to be proactive in resolving any potential errors or cases before releasing to production  ? Identify areas of improvement and upgrade outdated code to improve scalability, flexibility, and reusability  ? Introduce Jira and Agile Methodologies to help the team better coordinate project management Applications & Web Analyst IAPMO - Ontario, CA July 2016 to November 2018 Partake in designing and developing a company-wide intranet enterprise solution that will replace the outdated, existing application and improve the overall business workflow and revenue  ? Gather business requirements from the clients and translate into an MVP to present to the client through weekly sprints  ? Use a C# micro service OOP design to produce and develop interchangeable and reusable code for efficiency. Build code using dependency injection and interfaces to allow for easy reusability.  ? Identify and encourage potential areas of growth and improvement when facing the client by demonstrating interactive and user-friendly interfaces built with AngularJS (filters, data-binding, MVVM). Integrate angularJS plugins that allow for easy data manipulation, export/import.  ? Create stored procedures and advanced queries to process data in the SQL Server DB  ? Migrate older projects from SVN to Git while maintaining all changelogs and notes Full Stack ASP.NET MVC Web Developer Spright I/O - Newport Beach, CA March 2016 to July 2016 Worked with a team of eight to produce a prototype web application for a local entrepreneur  ? Refactored a blog system into an EAV model so that it can be applied to other entities  ? Assisted in importing data from external CSV files using a CSV importer QA Associate Affinity Flavors - Corona, CA April 2015 to March 2016 Inspect and test raw materials before use in manufacturing. Perform analytical and organoleptic tests on finished products to ensure consistent quality and safety Education Bachelor of Science degree in Food Science & Technology University of California Davis - Davis, CA June 2014 Skills .NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, .NET 4.5, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2008, SQL, MVC, AJAX, ASP, ASP.NET, ANGULARJS, JIRA, REST, T-SQL, jQuery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/richard-li-80a00595