Technical Lead / Web Developer Technical Lead / <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Technical Lead / Web Developer - ClickPay Hackensack, NJ Work Experience Technical Lead / Web Developer ClickPay August 2016 to Present Assisting employees with technical support  ? Managed Zendesk creating SLA's, adding new users, organizations, groups, views, automations, and brands  ? Created documentation for new software Slack, Talkdesk, 8x8  ? Identified metrics that are useful to the CSM then implemented rules between Slack and Talkdesk so they can stay updated  ? Managed the reporting with Good Data to create agent reports based on criteria, team reports, as well to identify volume of tickets per team for each of our clients  ? Managed content for the help center  ? Delivered individual branded help centers using handlebars.js - https://support.clickpay.com/hc/en-us repo is available on Github for previous Help Center  ? Managed Google Analytics to gather information on the help center to present most viewed information first. This also assisted in keeping all categories, sections, and articles current  ? Manage a document composition software  ? Using MS SQL to query DB for critical information for marketing blasts  ? Created queries to assist with the reporting of errors on our system E-commerce Data Analyst VCOM December 2014 to September 2015 Worked in a team maintaining sites  ? Maintained hosting for entire collection of domain accounts owned  ? Worked with vendors to get updated CSV files and promotional offers  ? Maintained 1,000's of items daily  ? Cleaned up images  ? Wrote and updated product descriptions  ? Worked with HTML and CSS to maintain the products and specification  ? Worked remotely as needed Network Administrator VCOM June 2008 to November 2014 Managed project to move 3 separate locations into one central location in Fairfield  ? Wired 70% of the new location with cable runs for network and phones  ? Wrote product documentation and monthly IT checklist  ? Deployed and configured new servers, computers  ? Worked remotely when needed  ? Assisted over 85 employees across 3 NJ locations, 1 in CT, 1 in MD as well as remote sales employees as well as clients  ? Created an Inventory log with serial numbers, MAC addresses for networking equipment  ? Maintained Domain Hosting and configuration of all websites  ? Transitioned from internal Exchange server and migrated to a hosted solution  ? *For a more detailed list look at skills section Skills Sql, Git, Node.js, Vue.js, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails Additional Information SKILLS  MS SQL, Node.js, Ruby on Rails, Vue.js, Git, Heroku  Please see below