WEB APPLICATION DEVELOPER / WEBMASTER - MARKETING <span class="hl">WEB</span> APPLICATION <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> / WEBMASTER - MARKETING Digital Marketing Manager Desert Hot Springs, CA Accomplished and skilled Webmaster/ Web Developer and Digital Marketing Manager. Innovative with production  and analytical with results. Various skills of production in multimedia and technology  disciplines. Strong knowledge of analytical trends and root case analysis in various web  related media and demographic targeting and platform reach Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience WEB APPLICATION DEVELOPER / WEBMASTER - MARKETING SPOTLIGHT 29 CASINO / Tortoise Rock Casino - Coachella, CA October 2006 to Present Build, design, code, and maintain all enterprise owned websites, social media and web  standards. Maintain all emailing marketing, programing all web related materials to target  demographics. Development of internal web applications and systems for operational use.  SEO, Retargeting, PPC and online branding standards. Meeting deadlines for projects.    SPOTLIGHT 29 CASINO / TORTOISE ROCK CASINO -  Support for internal departmental multimedia projects and tasks. Viral and branding  management. API Development for enhancing technology experiences for guests.  Strategizing campaigns and promotions for online media. Graphic design and treatment  designs for advertisements and external media. Vendor partnerships for web gaming and mobile IOS/Android application. Digital Marketing Manager Spotlight 29 Casino / Tortoise Rock Casino - Coachella, CA October 2006 to Present Create and update digital marketing strategies that will support the organisation to achieve its aims as part of the overall Marketing and Communications plan.    Review new technologies and keep the company at the forefront of developments in digital marketing.    Use appropriate analytics to measure, evaluate and report against goals and performance of all digital marketing activity and plans.    Lead the development of the company website, devising strategies to drive online traffic and continuing to improve usability, design, content and conversion. Lead the development of the social media presence.     Develop and manage digital marketing campaigns across multiple channels utilising tools and techniques as appropriate including e-mail marketing, paid search, SEO and PPC.    Work with the Marketing & Communications team to create high quality content for a range of online platforms which is optimised and consistent with the brand and tone of voice.    Work with external agencies when required to develop the online presence Education Associate in Administration of justice College Of The Desert - Palm Desert, CA 2003 to 2005 Skills SEO (4 years), Email Marketing (3 years), Mobile (3 years), Web Design (5 years), Web Development (5 years), Web Development, Web Analytics (4 years), Web Content (4 years), Graphic Design (4 years), Branding (4 years), IOS (4 years), Coding (4 years), Google Webmaster Tools (4 years), Google Adwords (4 years), Advertising (5 years), Marketing (5 years), Market Research (4 years), Digital Marketing (5 years), Photography (8 years), Video Production (7 years), Adobe (10+ years), Social Media Marketing (8 years), Video Editing (5 years), Project Management (4 years), Google Analytics, Customer Service, Photoshop, HTML, Social Media Management, Illustrator, Indesign, Sales, Wordpress, search engine optimization, PHP, Javascript, Front End, Bootstrap, HTML5, Jquery, Video Editing (6 years), Public Speaking (5 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Social Media Marketing (9 years) Links http://www.spotlight29.com http://www.tortoiserockcasino.com Awards Employee of the quarter 2010-02 Employee of the quarter for outstanding work during the 4th quarter of 2009 Certifications/Licenses Apple Developer Andriod Developer When bloggers attack: Responding to negative employee comments on web. September 2011 to Present Training and certification on how to handle and responding to negative comments from bloggers and employee on the web. M26 Advanced Taser & Taser x26 Instructor training March 2008 to March 2010 Instructor training on how to use the Taser m26 and x26 devices and certification for private security personnel and law enforcement. Taser Technician Certification February 2009 to Present Taser technician training and certification of maintaining, diagnosis and downloading of m26 advanced taser and taser x26 non- lethal systems. Gordon Ramsey MasterClass October 2018 to Present Completed Chef Gordon Ramsey Online Master Class. Competed the 20 lesson plan course in mastering cooking and taking my cooking to the next level using the proper cooking techniques and skills. During the course, I cooked over 18 dishes from scratch and presented them to the class via online virtual classroom format. Mastering knife skills, cooking with fine ingredients and refining my palette to create astounding dishes and elevating my skills in the kitchen. Annie Leibovitz Photogrpahy Masterclass October 2018 to Present Completed Annie Leibovitz’s photography MasterClass online course. Completed all 15 lesson plans and areas of study within the course . During the course I learned at art of story telling through photography, capturing and replicating natural light. Photography dynamics and industry standards as well as creating concepts with photography. During the course I performed all assignments hands on with my professional photography equipment and refined my skills. Martin Scorsese‘s Filmmaking Masterclass November 2018 to Present Completed Martin Scorsese’s online film making Master Class course. Completed all 30 lesson plans and aspects in the course. Learned the art of story telling through film. Refined my skill set in editing, sound design, filming techniques, story and script translations. During the course I discovered the process of film making and was able to channel influences into developing my own unique style and form of story telling. Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/szfu6wzb-tabz Technical Support — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6gja2mvjck0pah4h Graphic Design — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wmkol5kntu-tqbx Problem Solving — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/r70e0pq4ieoioyxw Email — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xxh-n6ojua-fmtst Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/w1rtfbqqle2aetrh Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bymai9tanxtzpapw Customer Focus & Orientation — Highly Proficient July 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wn-tqr-uwd4spm1k Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Patents Clear 4 One Casino Crime Database (#US20120130937A1) http://N/a 2012-05 Inventor of a Casino Crime Database system that was designed to be used by all casino gaming facilities throughout the United States as way of sharing criminal information and communications about casino guests with negative contacts in the casino property to prevent loss of revenues and minimize crimes and prevent cheating or gaming manipulation for player advantages. System was patented and trademarked and tested. Publications Grand opening of food court design and launch https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.pe.com/2018/08/31/spotlight-29-casino-revamps-its-food-court-and-adds-a-new-full-service-restaurant/amp/ 2018-08 Was mentioned and interviewed by press on our newly designed and reimagined food court at Spotlight 29 Casino. I was a part of the design, concept and creative team responsible for the reopening and new launch. Selena tribute comes to Spotlight 29 Casino https://www.kesq.com/news/the-selena-experience-comes-to-spotlight-29-casino/775337119 2018-07 Featured in a local news segment about a Latin favorite tribute show for “Selena” at spotlight 29 casino. I was featured in the written story and also on the video segment. Additional Information Skills  HTML, PHP, SQL, Database Analysis, Trends Analysis, Microsoft Office Suite, Adobe  Creative Suite, Apple Creative Suites, Social Media, SEO, Google Webmaster Tools and  analytics, Creative multimedia, Fluent in second Language ( Spanish). Photogrpahy and video production. Full editing skills for various platforms, Social Media Marketing, Social Media Trend Development.