Project Manager Project Manager Experienced Accessibility focused developer and project manager seeking a greater impact in Information Technology. State College, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Manager Penn State University - State College, PA February 2018 to Present • Work with all units in the Penn State system to give evaluations and recommendations of accessibility compliance and standards of electronic information technology; software licenses and contracts; and develop contract language. Work with staff of all University academic, research and business and service units requesting Accessibility Team testing and consulting services.   • Review, document, and optimize processes of the Accessibility Team. This includes, but is not limited to: purchase approval; website, application, service and technology review; document conversion; training; documentation and information storage; and ticket management.  • Develop tools and automation to increase efficiency of unit capabilities and to continue to advance technical knowledge. Research and implement digital document, web development, and coding best practices. Application Developer Penn State University - State College, PA August 2014 to January 2018 C# .NET MVC Web Application Developer. Acted as lead programmer for development of university applications. Focused on UI / UX and accessibility, but did full stack (IIS, T SQL, C# MVC .NET, LESS, Bootstrap, JQuery). Acted as accessibility specialist for whole IT unit. Learning Management System Administrator Penn State University - State College, PA July 2013 to August 2014 In charge of content creation and maintenance for SBLP - the Spanish Basic Language Program at PSU. Acted as level 2 support for students and instructors. Acted as accessibility specialist for planning and implementation Web Developer Freelance 2008 to July 2013 Developed complete websites, including design and implementation  ? Focused extensively on back end database development.  ? Experience with both Drupal and Wordpress as content management systems. Game Designer and Database Developer PSU StudioLab 2011 to 2013 Flash based energy efficiency awareness game 'Energy Chickens'  ? Worked as part of team on main game development; primarily did coding in ActionScript 3.0  ? Spearheaded new game system: live web / flash interface instead of a file only download  ? Created basic analysis package as part of gameplay  ? Created database back end of game system.  ? Did on site hardware install related to gameplay  ? Expanded and contributed to game system Data Manager and Web Developer PSU Family Life Project 2007 to 2011 Creation and maintenance of company website  ? Development of custom website for remote employee reporting  ? Processing, tracking and troubleshooting video research data.  ? Maintenance of company field research laptops  ? Continuing synchronization of calendars between employees  ? Preparation of reports and presentations  ? General troubleshooting of office equipment Teaching Assistant Freelance 2001 to 2008 Lessons vary for each student, but range in ability level from the most basic, to achieving comfort with common programs, to more advanced use: primarily focusing on creating e-commerce capable website for small business use. Family uses this as an excuse to come to me with every little computer question.  Tutoring (NAU Physics department) - 3 years. Held 2 office hours per week during school year.  Teaching Assistant (Prof. David Cole, NAU PHY 161 - General Physics 1) - 1 semester. Held outside homework sessions and exams in addition to study sessions and office hours for course. Teacher / Counselor Renaissance Adventures - Boulder, CO June 2001 to June 2005 An private interactive teaching service for children 5-18. Focused on core sciences (physics,  chemistry, biology), as well as personal emphasis in astronomy and general mathematics, all for ages 6-15. Team work, team-building, empowerment, inspiration, creativity, were emphasized  here, to aid individuals in learning lessons to bring group harmony. Education B.S. in Physics and Astronomy N. Arizona University May 2006 Fairview High School - Boulder, CO June 2000 Research Project Karst Waters Institute Skills Unity Game Developer (4 years), Learning Management Systems (3 years), Wordpress Plugin Developement (2 years), Web Design (10+ years), Web Development (5 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), JQuery (5 years), C# (3 years), .NET (3 years), Web Accessibility (5 years), UI / UX (5 years), Bootstrap (3 years), SQL (5 years), Web Accessibility Testing (3 years), Git (5 years), Wordpress, PHP, Front End, NET Certifications/Licenses IAAP Certified Professional in Accessibility Core Competencies (CPACC) December 2017 to December 2020 The IAAP Certified Professional in Accessibility Core Competencies (CPACC) credential is IAAP's foundational certification, representing broad, cross-disciplinary conceptual knowledge about 1) disabilities, 2) accessibility and universal design, and 3) accessibility-related standards, laws, and management strategies.