Lead Infrastructure Architect Lead Infrastructure Architect Infrastructure Architect / Cloud Engineer Doral, FL Infrastructure architect with over 20 years of professional experience as an applications engineer, systems administrator, developer, producer and manager. Today I enjoy working with the cloud and such technologies as Ansible, Kubernetes and Tensorflow and languages like Ruby, Python, Go and Elixir.    I am obsessed with the optimization of processes and have an intense love of aircraft, motorcycles, history, music and my family, not in this order at all.    My recurrent goal is to automate all that I do and consistently work myself out of a job so that I can move on to labor on more interesting things. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Infrastructure Architect Farelogix - Miami, FL March 2014 to Present As the Infrastructure Architect and team leader for Infrastructure Engineering, I am responsible for the stability and performance of our platform. We span multiple cloud providers running diverse environments (Linux, Windows and VMware). My team is tasked with engineering solutions and moving the needle forward. Our projects involve containers, machine learning, big data, and how to incorporate open-source software into making our products better and our lives easier. Responsibilities include stability and performance monitoring, anomaly detection, vulnerability management, attack surface reduction, SIEM, compliance (PCI, GDPR), automation of processes, reverse proxies and load balancers, database tuning and optimization, while staying as cloud-agnostic as possible. Additional duties include capacity planning, network engineering, equipment life-cycle, procurement, DR planning and exercises, and looking for optimization opportunities across the technology stacks. Current focus and main objective is migrating our platform from monolithic apps to separate microservices running in containers, and possibly into a service mesh infrastructure in the next phase.    Skills utilized: Python, Ruby, Go, Javascript, Node.js, machine learning (TensorFlow, Keras, PyTorch), Docker (ECR/ECS), Kubernetes(EKS/AKS), Helm, Ansible, Puppet, Bash, Awk, MySQL/MariaDB, Redis, Cassandra, Redshift, Apache Spark, RabbitMQ, ElasticSearch, Graylog, AppDynamics, Extrahop, New Relic, Solarwinds, Datadog, Prometeus, Grafana, CloudWatch, AWS Lambda, Vagrant, Packer, Terraform, Apache, Nginx, HAproxy, Traefik, Envoy, AWS, IBM Cloud, Azure, CloudSigma, virtualization (Virtualbox, VMware, KVM), Ubuntu, Rancher, CoreOS, Windows Server (2016/2019 Nano/Core), PowerShell, Akamai (Kona WAF, FastDNS, DataStream), F5, A10 Senior Application Developer / Systems Administrator Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania - Philadelphia, PA December 2008 to October 2013 Responsible for application development and Linux servers maintenance and monitoring for the Operations and Information Management department, working directly with Professors to help to develop prototype applications and support scholar research including specialized search engines, data mining ( web scraping), survey tools, business optimization, statistical analysis and grid-based implementation of multi-threaded calculation softwares. Did also MySQL database administration, with focus on optimization and performance tuning, along with data migration and integration with SAS, Stata and SQL Server. On the server side helped migrate the department from a Sun Solaris box to state-of-the-art rack servers running Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5 and 6. Developed shell scripts to simplify everyday tasks, created custom hardening solutions that run alongside monitoring software while maintaining an aggressive server patching policy for added security.    Skills utilized: PHP, Javascript (Ajax/Jquery), Smarty, Ruby, Rails, Python, Perl, MySQL, SQL Server, SQLite, Flash, Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML, CSS, Jquery UI, XML, JSON, SAS, Stata, Virtualization (Virtualbox/VMware/AWS), Git, Subversion, Apache, BIND, Bash, Awk, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Ubuntu, Mac OS X, Windows Server 2008 Application Architect Mercury Solutions - Bensalem, PA August 2003 to December 2008 In charge of planning, analysis and implementation of development standards. Lead developer for user interfaces of corporate websites, design of applications and databases. In charge of supervision of Linux (Red Hat Enterprise) and FreeBSD server monitoring and maintenance. Responsible for information flow between clients and development team. Head of a 15-person development team.    Skills utilized: PHP, Javascript (Ajax/Jquery), Smarty, Ruby, Python, Perl, MySQL, Flash, Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, Virtualization (Virtualbox/VMware), Git, Subversion, Apache, BIND, Bash, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS, Ubuntu, Debian, Mac OS X Senior Web Developer Cyberfuse Technologies - Morrisville, PA September 2006 to May 2007 Head of information architecture and user interface design for several new and upgraded websites, including Today.com's free blog hosting, az.to's news aggregator, Karzi.com's chatrooms and more. Worked with several associates on development standards, research & development, and online advertising for featured blogs. In charge of planning, documenting, tracking and briefing designers and developers in key internal projects utilizing out-of-the-office/outsourced workforce to speed up the development process in Panama and Slovakia, serving as liaison between these developers and local system and network administrators.    Skills utilized: PHP, Javascript (Ajax/Jquery), Perl, MySQL, Flash, Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, Subversion, Apache, Bash, Red Hat Enterprise Linux Freelancer Aquent, The Creative Group (Robert Half) June 2006 to September 2006 Freelancing at several locations including GSI Commerce and Bristol-Myers Squibb.  Skills utilized: Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML, CSS, PHP, Javascript (Ajax/Jquery), MS Project, Visio, MySQL, Flash, Subversion, Apache, Mac OS X Technical Project Manager Ferrara & Company - Princeton, NJ June 2005 to June 2006 Responsible for keeping the development schedule, defining timelines, deliverables, development standards and converting clients' needs into viable applications and websites. In charge of planning, documenting, and briefing designers and developers with the details provided by clients, as well as defining information architecture. Responsible for creating node and content maps, overview, planning, production, deployment and reporting on e-mail campaigns for several large clients such as H.J.Heinz, Church & Dwight, and Pfizer.    Skills utilized: Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML, CSS, PHP, .Net, Javascript, MS Project, Visio, MySQL, Flash, Subversion, Apache, Mac OS X Mobile Internet Development Coordinator Global Telecom S/A (now Vivo) - Curitiba, PR February 2001 to May 2003 Expanded on the creation of new businesses through the development of WAP applications (WML/HDML) based on PHP and Oracle databases. In charge of planning, analysis, modular-building and implementation of development standards. Responsible for UI of developed tools and its sites. Responsible for testing and researching all new technologies that became available in the field of mobile internet, SMS and wireless telephony fields.    Skills utilized: PHP, Javascript, Perl, Oracle, Flash, Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML, CSS, XML, WAP, Brew MP, WML, HDML, Apache, Red Hat Linux Internet Development Manager Sigma Dataserv - Curitiba, PR December 1999 to February 2001 Responsible for converting and developing user interfaces for all of the City's projects that they required to be internet accessible (like Budget, Bidding, etc.). Built from the ground up the first public network of internet access, available free-of-charge to all citizens and visitors of the city. Lead the team (over 20 developers) that built the webmail, chat and scheduling applications. Responsible for the modeling and normalizing of its related databases.    Skills utilized: PHP, Javascript, Perl, MySQL, Flash, Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML, CSS, XML, Apache, Red Hat Linux, Windows NT Server Web Developer JobNetwork.com - Atlanta, GA September 1999 to December 1999 Lead the development of their e-recruiting portal. Responsible for creating the user interface of the website as well as new corporate identity, multimedia demos and showcases, database optimization and information flow. Worked along with the Marketing Department to strength the brand "UStechjobs" and its integration with the main portal, JobNetwork, and its sister-sites "USmedjobs", "USexecjobs" and "USlawjobs".    Skills utilized: ASP, Javascript, MS SQL, Flash, Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML, CSS, XML, IIS, Visual Interdev, Mac OS X, Windows 2000 Server  * This company is no longer in business. Web Developer & Art Director Exclam Communications Ltd December 1998 to September 1999 Art direction and design for companies such as Volvo, Audi, Seat, Volkswagen, Electrolux and Coca-Cola. High-resolution photo retouching for printed media and TV ads. Responsible for producing multimedia presentations, CD-ROMs and web content for their clients as well as the agency.    Skills utilized: Photoshop, Illustrator, QuarkXpress, InDesign, HTML, Flash, Mac OS X Creative Director & Project Manager MultiMedia FX Inc - Norcross, GA June 1998 to December 1998 Production and supervision of website development process, intranets (architecture and interface), CMS development and training. Handled day-to-day contact with client base, being responsible to provide reliable feedback and reach their online presence goal, bridging the gap between the developers and the client's needs and wishes. Responsible for conceiving overall look and feel of websites produced by the agency. Also acted as their Technology Advisor.    Skills utilized: HTML, Javascript, CSS, Flash, Photoshop, Illustrator, Macromedia Fireworks, Dreamweaver, Mac OS X, Windows NT Server  * This company is no longer in business. Web Designer Online Information, Inc - Atlanta, GA April 1998 to June 1998 Responsible for creating and producing all website, intranet and extranet user interfaces required by their clients, focusing on creating eye-catching but functional, low-bandwidth interfaces.    Skills utilized: HTML, Flash, Photoshop, Illustrator, Corel Draw, Macromedia Fireworks, Dreamweaver Desktop Publishing Supervisor EGF/Printform Prepress Bureau March 1995 to April 1998 Responsible for the Desktop Publishing Department, supervising and training all the new DTP workers, as well as image editing/processing for this leading pre-press company.    Skills utilized: Photoshop, Illustrator, Corel Draw, QuarkXpress, InDesign, Freehand, Pagemaker, Alias Eclipse (Silicon Graphics) Education Certificate in Architecting with Amazon Web Services (AWS) University of Pennsylvania - Philadelphia, PA 2013 Certificate in iOS Programming The Pragmatic Studio - Herndon, VA 2012 Certificate in Ruby on Rails Bootcamp Marakana (now Twitter University) - New York, NY 2011 Certificate in Red Hat Linux System Administration II Exceed Education (ExitCertified) - King of Prussia, PA 2010 Bachelor's in Civil Engineering Federal Center of Technological Education 1990 to 1994 Skills Docker, Kubernetes, Helm, Python, Ruby, Go, Terraform, HAproxy, TensorFlow, PyTorch, Cassandra, Spark, GlusterFS, Javascript, Bash, XML, Linux, Apache, MySQL, Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Redis, RabbitMQ, NoSQL, VMware, AWS, EC2, S3, VPC, CloudWatch, Lambda (10+ years) Links http://www.fabianoprestes.com http://www.linkedin.com/in/fabianoprestes Additional Information QUALIFICATIONS    Conscientious, creative, dedicated professional; strong background in application development, systems administration and graphic design. Experienced in leading web projects and team management. Strong written and verbal communication skills.    Further information and supervisory references available upon request.