Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Atlanta North, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer WEBSTER UNIVERSITY - St. Louis, MO September 2014 to Present Responsibilities: Develop, maintain, and support University content management system and web related systems (WordPress in a multisite environment, OmniUpdate CMS focused on higher education environment). Analyze, design and develop websites  using PHP, HTML, CakePHP, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, Bootstrap, MySQL. Collaborate with content experts, graphic designers,  programmer/analysts and information architects to design, develop, enable, and enhance web-based solutions. Assist in planning and developing strategies for delivering Internet technologies. Install, manage, integrate and customize third party solutions to meet world wide University requirements. Conduct usability and validation testing of web projects. IT Consultant Industrial Software - Sibiu March 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities: Consulting clients regarding projects requirements, project scope and implementation strategies, planning  timescales and the resources needed; clarifying a client's system specifications; understanding their work practices; travelling to customer sites; software support after implementation; software development (PHP, HTML, CSS, MySQL); develop and  maintain websites using WordPress, HTML, CSS, MySQL; Photoshop. System Administrator Euroscript Certitude April 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities: Monitoring system health, correcting problems improving configurations, and ensuring proper maintenance and updates; performing routine audits of systems and software; performing backups; applying operating system updates, patches, and configuration changes (Windows XP, 7, 8, Server 2003); installing and configuring new hardware and software; answering  technical queries and assisting users (on local site or remote); user and rights administration (setup and maintaining accounts in  Active Directory). Counsellor Assistant - IT Department City Hall Sibiu March 2005 to April 2012 Responsibilities: member team of the GIS responsible for maps updates and modifications made (MapInfo, GeoMedia  Professional); hardware and software support for users; site administrator www.sibiu.ro responsible for the daily updates,  modifications of structure, back-up, maintenance and database development; program Manager of Document Management,  responsible for system maintenance, support and training for users; responsible for creating, development and update the new  web sites or web based applications used in internet or intranet; responsible for develop and maintain the network security  webcams and live webcams (from www.sibiu.ro) such as recordings, network expansion, configure cameras. Education Certificate of Graduation in Leadership Webster University - St. Louis, MO October 2017 Master Diploma in Management and Marketing Strategy of the Company Lucian Blaga University March 2010 Economics & informatics Lucian Blaga University July 2007 Skills PHOTOSHOP, HTML / HTML5, CSS / CSS3, PHP, CakePHP, Bootstrap, Foundation, Javascript, CMS, WordPress, Databases, MySQL, Web Development, Front End, Angular, CSS3, HTML5, Front End, Angular, AWS, Marketing Additional Information Well-developed writing and communication skills; advanced knowledge of Microsoft Office 2003/2007/2010, Acronis true  image; Adobe Acrobat; Adobe Dreamweaver; Adobe Photoshop; Corel Draw;  Excellent social and leadership skills; Personable, creative, and organized.