Console Operator/Night Lead Guard Console Operator/Night Lead Guard Console Operator/Night Lead Guard - SCIS Towaco, NJ Work Experience Console Operator/Night Lead Guard SCIS - Morris Plains, NJ May 2018 to Present • Ensure that the Guards perform their assigned tasks on time and as per requirements.  • Accurately maintain the Console Log of tasks performed and issues encountered.  • Perform periodic tours of our site areas requiring security clearance.  • Report issues or incidents within our location and others throughout the company.  • Take phone calls.  • Ensure that no unauthorized personnel enter facility.  • Issue temporary access badges to authorized visitors.  • Ensure that no company property leaves facility without proper permission. Security Guard U.S. SECURITY ASSOCIATES - Parsippany, NJ September 2013 to May 2018 • Periodic tour inspection of entire site while on duty and logged results.  • Notified Police and/or Fire Department in the event of emergencies at the site.  • Logged suspicious activity or unsafe conditions either during or between site inspections.  • Took phone calls.  • Answered questions of staff and direct visitors to their destinations.  • Ensured that no unauthorized personnel enter facility.  • Ensured that no company property leaves facility without proper permission.  • Created Incident Reports as needed. Hardware/Software Specialist PERMANENT MISSION OF HAITI - New York, NY June 2009 to June 2017 Key player in the installation of their new server, including the preparation of all  workstations, the setting up of Active Directory, the joining of all workstations to the domain, the creation of new user profiles on all workstations, the mapping of new  shared folders on all workstations, and the testing of all workstations.  • Major player in the move to their new location, including the setting up and testing of all  hardware and software, and reconnecting all workstations and peripherals to the network.  • Fresh install of Windows XP on all machines including latest updates plus the install of applications such as Microsoft Office 2007, Adobe Reader, and Real Player.  • Install various hardware devices and computer components as needed.  • Install additional memory in all machines to further improve performance.  • Train staff members on the use of their new or updated applications.  • Resolve various hardware and software issues as they occur. Owner/IT Consultant CMIT SOLUTIONS - Towaco, NJ August 2008 to September 2009 Personally involved in all functions of business including client acquisition, hardware/software troubleshooting, hardware/software installation, system monitoring, data  backup, and disaster recovery.  • Resolved problem where client could not gain access to the company's computer while working from home.  • Mentored client who was starting his own business, but who was a novice with matters  related to technology. Developer ACCENTURE - Florham Park, NJ February 2007 to April 2008 • Produced an inventory and vital statistics system for a major application of a Government agency.  • As part of a Legacy Modernization effort for a major medical service provider, made several enhancements to improve Claims Processing performance time. .NET Web Developer PROACTION TECHNOLOGIES - Allendale, NJ August 2006 to September 2006 • Fixed a report that would fail to generate due to excessive volume.  • Fixed a report that would display the months out of sequence.  • Fixed a report that would print the same month multiple times.  • Modified several SQL Server stored procedures. .NET Web Developer Berkeley Hts, NJ May 2006 to June 2006 • Re-structured and re-organized web page on the site to make it more functional.  • Fixed the Userid/Password screen to insure the information entered is processed. .NET Developer, Master's Program Parsippany, NJ January 2006 to March 2006 • Developed solutions in C#.NET, employing object - oriented programming concepts such as encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction.  • Used C#.NET and ADO.NET to define and implement secure middle-tier components for web applications and windows applications utilizing SQL Server and stored procedures.  • Created and deployed XML Web Services using ASP.NET. Incorporated Web Services  from both Windows forms and ASP.N7ET web applications.  • Created complex business components in C#.NET using .NET Class Library assemblies  in a multi-tier environment to address application infrastructure issues  • Developed a Windows n-tiered "Public Library Management System" application and ported it to a dynamic ASP.NET Internet/Intranet model utilizing the same secure middle  tier data access components. Non-public web pages were secured using Windows  integrated and ASP.NET forms security models.  • Developed a multi-tiered IT Recruiter Placement Application, similar to Monster.com, with the capabilities to post jobs, search jobs and query reports. This included a Windows  based front-end interface for managing the system and database and provided security  levels for different users. Technologies utilized included: C#.NET, SQL Server 2000, Transact-SQL, ADO.NET, ASP.NET, Web Services, and HTML. Senior Software Engineer ALLIANCE CAPITAL - Secaucus, NJ May 1996 to October 2005 Made enhancements to the Anchor ACH system, a VB6-based automatic  payment application.  • Migrated the Anchor ACH system to the Windows XP environment.  • Created a User Report for the Anchor ACH system using Crystal Reports.  • Produced SQL scripts for modifications to the Anchor ACH SQL Server database.  • Created the Global Access Card system which supported Alliance's Money Funds  products including Checkwriting, Debitcard, and Online Bill Payment services.  • Produced an Integrated Statements sub-system for one of Alliance's major clients.  This project included the creation of Cobol II programs, JCL, procs, and documentation.    CONSULTING ASSIGNMENTS Education Master of Business in Business ST. JOHN'S UNIVERSITY - Queens, NY Bachelor of Business in Business BARUCH COLLEGE - New York, NY Skills Excel, Ms excel, Ms outlook, Outlook, Ms word, Word, Cctv, Switchboard, Switchboard operation, Telephone Additional Information SKILLS    - MS Outlook, MS Excel 2012, MS Word 2012  - CCTV Monitoring  - Detailed incident reporting using MS Word 2012  - Accurate log keeping  - Telephone switchboard operation  - Advanced technical background