Director of Web Development Director of <span class="hl">Web</span> Development Director of Web Development - Renovation Brands Denver, CO Work Experience Director of Web Development Renovation Brands - Boulder, CO 2016 to Present Leverage expertise in digital transformation strategy to drive growth during an organization shift. Conceptualized and executed a successful strategy for a $100< multi-subsidiary, ecommerce platform. Mange budget and sustain company infrastructure through developing high functioning, cross-functional teams to construct effective technical roadmaps. Additional duties include creating IT roadmaps and managing enterprise systems and networks.  • Manage project milestones to ensure proper execution utilizing research and technology trends for best practices.  • Steer business decisions vetting acquisition platforms and making recommendations. Co-Founder / Developer Promptio - Colorado Springs, CO 2014 to 2016 Demonstrated technical expertise in launching a digital consumer startup emphasizing the development of an automated activity detection service designed to extend independent functioning for aging adults. Mapped out business plan, testing, pricing and models to prepare for further development and launch of the product.  • Conducted convincing presentations to attract potential investors. Product Manager ERUCES Data Security - Overland Park, KS 2001 to 2014 Governed industry certified encryption products for enterprises, federal, and international governments as the founding member for this startup. Served as a subject matter expert (SME) leading capital initiative and streamlining marketing, sales, partnership and vendor relation functions. Directed lifecycle and feature release for product portfolios. Implemented continuous integration and automated testing, build hybrid cloud and VM. Analyzed customer requirements to ensure all functions aligned with specifications; wrote stories, and designed content strategy for all product development efforts  • Supervised 100's of product releases values at $2M in sales; achieved federal and industry product certifications.  • Directed UX team; researched and created UI design patterns for massive data sets and cascading ACLs.  • Constructed and executed 30+ proof of capabilities projects for federal intel agencies.  • Achieved FIPS 140-2 and Common Criteria (NIST) product certifications.  • Created and coached process models and new product prototypes; led price modeling, licensing, and proposal generation efforts.  • Owned UX/UX and Product Content Strategy. Skills Dynamodb, Erp, Ecommerce, Api, Crm, Product development, Advertising, Relationship management, Organizational development, Training, HTML5, Jquery, PHP, Javascript, Front End, Angularjs, Wordpress Additional Information Areas of Expertise    * Product Development * Digital Information * Vendor Relationship Management  * Team Leadership & Training * Business Acumen * Organizational Development    TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Serverless Lambda, AWS DynamoDB, API Gateway, Advertising analytics platforms, ERP / CRM /eCommerce systems, Google AMP, Web apps