Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Experienced Database and Data Driven Website Developer Bethany, CT Web Development professional with extensive experience utilizing a wide range of software development tools. Projects range from designing and building simple websites to contributing as a team member and leading teams on large scale development projects.    Strong analytical skills   Excellent communication skills  Extensive programming and design   Excellent problem-solving abilities  Database design & programming   Agile/Scrum Methodologies    ASP, ASP.NET using C# and VBScript, PHP  HTML, Javascript, CSS, JQuery  SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, Oracle   Entity Framework, LINQ  Joomla, Wordpress  Coldfusion, Crystal Reports Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Varied March 2001 to Present Used knowledge of Web and Database technologies to develop complex database-driven websites and Content Management Systems for various clients.  Sample projects include:    • Customized CMS Websites - Assisted many small businesses in defining their needs, purchasing and customizing a design template, and creating a web presence and/or eCommerce site. Developed websites using Joomla or Wordpress Content Management Systems and Volusion eCommerce software.  Technology: Joomla, WordoPress, MySQL, CSS, PHP    • Analysis and Design - Completed an in-depth analysis of shop floor procedures for a local manufacturer in order to recommend methods for improved data capture and reporting.    • SQL Server Conversion - Converted a legacy system from MS SQL Server 2000 to MS SQL Server 2008. Project included migration of all tables and stored procedures as well as conversion of DTS packages to SSIS packages. Responsible for testing and creating migration plan for live website.  Technology: ASP, VBScript, MS SQL Server 2000 & 2008, Visual Studio, Crystal Reports    • Employee Compensation Resources Intranet - Developed an intranet for an Employee Compensation Consulting Firm. Responsible for analyzing customer requirements and developing front-end design, CSS, Master Pages, Base Pages, and common modules. Also developed SLL methods for Entity Framework. Worked as part of a team to develop system using ASP.NET and C#.  Technology: ASP.NET, C#, MS SQL Server, Entity Framework, Visual Studio    • Municipal Website - Developed a city website which included custom content management system. Worked with all city departments to define requirements, determine a common core for all departments, and design department-specific tools. Worked as part of a team to develop and implement system  using ASP.NET and C#.  Technology: ASP.NET, C#, MS SQL Server, Visual Studio    Web Developer  • Performance Reporting System - For a client providing Medical Transportation, converted existing reports from Access to Crystal Reports and SQL Server. Wrote SQL Server stored procedures to improve performance. Trained staff developers to create complex reports using Crystal Reports. Created Intranet to provide  access to new reports.  Technology: ASP.NET, VBScript, MS SQL Server, Crystal Reports    • Report Card System - As part of a development team, created a custom grade entry and report card generation system for a large school district. Worked with various departments to define project requirements and design the data collection methods. Responsible for database design, development, and coding of backend procedures as well as front-end design and coding. Worked as part of a large team to develop system and train end users.  Technology: ASP.NET, C#, MS SQL Server, Visual Studio, Crystal Reports    • Web-based Portfolio Review System- Developed a custom ecommerce website which allowed users to upload a portfolio of photos, describe their project, solicit critiques by professional editors, and pay for the service. Responsible for database design and all back-end programming.  Technology: ASP.NET, C#, MS SQL Server, HTML, Javascript, CSS    • Online Purchasing System - Developed a complex, custom sourcing solution for a large municipality. This system was developed to allow purchasing agents to enter solicitations and RFPs. Vendors use the system to register, set their preferences and receive alerts regarding upcoming bids. A complicated series of web forms were required to enter bid data and produce calculation sheets. Project included  an extensive reporting system to allow managers to view bids in different ways.  Technology: ASP.NET, ASP, VBScript, MS SQL Server, Visual Studio, Crystal Reports    • Transit District Website - Developed a custom content management system which allowed a Transit District to maintain all of their route information and post it online. Project included database design and development, website development, and coding complex search criteria.  Technology: ASP.NET, C#, MS SQL Server, HTML, Javascript, CSS    • Custom eCommerce Website - For a local chemical company, developed complex search and cross-referencing functionality and incorporated this into a website which allowed customers to order samples and products using complicated pricing algorithms.  Technology: ASP.NET, ASP, VBScript, MS SQL Server Independent Software Consultant April 1990 to March 2001 Worked as an independent/freelance contractor on large scale development projects using  technologies such as CICS, IMS, Telon, DB2, Oracle, SQL Server, Powerbuilder, ASP,  Coldfusion    Client companies included:  • Aetna • GE • Pratt & Whitney    • Cigna • IMS • State of Ct Labor Dept    • CBS • ITDS • General Reinsurance    • PanAmSat • IXnet • Hartford Steam Boiler    • Be There Senior Programmer Analyst Keane, Inc October 1987 to April 1990 Worked on project teams for Keane clients developing software applications using Cobol, CICS, CSP and DB2. Learned new technologies on the job as needed. Programmer Analyst General Electric - Bridgeport, CT July 1985 to October 1987 Completed the prestigious Information Systems Management Program (ISMP), a 2 year  program of coursework and varying work experiences. Worked for a financial division where I developed and maintained various mainframe systems. Education Bachelor of Science in Marketing in Accounting and Computer Science Fairfield University 1985 Skills C#, NET, Wordpress, HTML, Javascript, PHP, Front End, HTML5