Employment Counselor Employment Counselor Employment Counselor - Department of Workforce Service Bluffdale, UT Work Experience Employment Counselor Department of Workforce Service - Salt Lake, UT September 2010 to Present Provide counseling to unemployment insurance (UI) recipients to assist them in finding work. Counsel UI recipients who are likely to exhaust their UI benefits to save the State of Utah's UI fund.  * Counseled over 780 job-seekers one-on-one and helped 90% of them find work  * Determine customer's barriers to employment (mental, physical, or lack of skills)  * Collaborate with customer to find ways to overcome barriers to employment  * Create an employment plan with customer to help them achieve independence and fulfillment  * Act as a knowledgebase of DWS and community resources and services  * Performed on a team that saved the State of Utah's UI fund over $5.9 million dollars and assisted over 700 job-seekers find work Bus Driver Alpine School District - American Fork, UT February 2009 to August 2010 Transport and manage students grades k-12 throughout Northern Utah County Freelance Web Designer/ Developer American Fork, UT May 2008 to December 2009 Web Designer/ Developer  Started an e-commerce, promotional-products business. Partnered with an experienced promotional-products industry insider. Ran and developed the IT side of the venture.  * Created and executed a business plan for an online promotional product company  * Designed and deployed a PHP based e-commerce web site  * Implemented and managed SSL certificate, gateway and merchant account  * Performed SEO, usability strategies, and page weight optimization Implementation Consultant Omniture - Orem, UT December 2007 to May 2008 Consulted medium to Fortune-500 size companies in the deployment of SiteCatalyst. Designed solutions to collect web site traffic and sales data. Coached developers how to create dashboards and custom reports, which are used to optimize a site. Trained marketers how to generate reports to track online marketing campaigns and measure ROI.  * Defined client's business and web analytics needs, such as key performance indicators (KPIs)  * Designed custom solutions based on requirements  * Coached client's IT leads on best practices for deployment of solutions  * Conducted weekly follow-up calls to insure quality implementation of design solutions  * Managed a pipeline of accounts and set expectation for timelines and project scope  * Clients included Maersk, United Way, and the Chesapeake Bay Foundation Web Designer Heritage Web Solutions - Provo, UT November 2006 to November 2007 Designed web sites for a high-volume, low-cost web design and hosting company, which targeted small and medium sized companies.  * Created over 125 web-site design layouts based on customers' specifications  * Integrated layouts into dynamic, e-commerce web sites using CSS and HTML  * Used web development applications extensively (Photoshop and web authoring tools)  * Effectively handled a large pipeline (between 15 to 30 projects) and reliably kept deadlines  * Conducted design interviews, sold enhancements, and managed the development process Marketing Coordinator Liberty Lending - Temecula, CA August 2005 to October 2006 Managed the marketing communication efforts of a loan brokerage of 20 loan officers. Able to learn on-the-fly to achieve objectives. Taught myself Photoshop, web design, and HTML to create print ads, real estate flyers, and develop the company web site.  * Designed and executed niche direct-mail campaigns and marketing programs  * Created marketing material and newsletters with InDesign and Photoshop  * Coordinated with print shops and graphic designers on projects  * Administered customer appreciation program  * Performed as an event coordinator for monthly seminars    Technical Skills  Proficient with: Familiar with:  * Adobe Photoshop * Uworks * Adobe Illustrator  * Dreamweaver * Microsoft Office * Building Computers  * CSS & HTML * ImageReady * Adobe InDesign  * SiteCatalyst * JavaScript Education Bachelor's of Arts in Communications in Advertising/Marketing Communications Brigham Young University September 2001 to April 2004 Skills Css, Dreamweaver, Html, Javascript, Illustrator, Adobe illustrator, Indesign, Adobe indesign, Photoshop, Adobe photoshop, Microsoft office, Pipeline Additional Information Versatile professional with a background in employment counseling, education counseling, marketing, technical consulting, and web design.    Core Skills  • Skilled graphic and web designer.  • Created over 125 web sites design layouts.  • Conducted design interviews, sold enhancements, and handled a large pipeline of 15 to 30 client projects.  • Proven ability to quickly learn and teach complex processes, software, and technologies.  • Designed solutions to track web site traffic and sales data using SiteCatalyst.