Application and Solutions Developer Application and Solutions <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application and Solutions Developer - THE WRIGHT CENTER FOR GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION Lakeland, FL Work Experience Application and Solutions Developer THE WRIGHT CENTER FOR GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION - Scranton, PA 2019 to Present Scranton, Pennsylvania 2019 - Present  Application and Solutions Developer  Responsible for the development, design and support of custom applications, including The Wright Center's public and internal websites, as required to support the objectives of The Wright Center to provide excellent GME and patient care.  • Developed Web applications using ASP/Visual Studio  • Developed Databases using SQL Server  • Proven track record to prioritize deliverables Project Manager MIKE'S HOME REMODELING, LLC - Forest City, PA 2018 to 2019 Creation of billing and invoice system for a small construction company. Duties included writing of bids, management of construction projects, and all electronic related activities using MS Office suite' Developer Analyst PRUDENTIAL RETIREMENT - Moosic, PA 2005 to 2018 Create proposals and recommend software for users. Develop software solutions using MS Office and VBA. Lead online software instruction for users. Demonstrate SQL Server experience in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) / ETL, writing T-SQL queries, writing complex queries and dynamic stored procedures, functions; feeding data to web-based applications, and creating web applications in Visual Studio. Design applications to convert excel files into legitimate file formats and validate data.  • Develop Access based tracking application warning associates of file due dates and preventing lost contribution files.  • Recognized with Premier award from Prudential for creating Excel-based application to reformat data from unusable client report to acceptable format. Achieved high client satisfaction rating.  • Receive 'Service From the Heart' award for creating Visual Studio utility to resolve internal links in hundreds of documents due to a server remapping process.  • Resolve conflicts in under 20 days from Office 365 upgrade in over 150 applications spread across three departments without interruption of mission-critical services.  • Create VDES, external client facing application developed in Visual Studio allowing retirement plan managers to submit formatted payroll files. Adopted as industry standard and currently active on 2K desktops with 100 % performance rate.    PRUDENTIAL RETIREMENT PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE (conr'd)  • Develop Criteria Document application (CDA) for Client Consultant to help organize paperwork, create contracts, layouts and checklists based on retirement plans.  • Recognized with over 10 PruPower awards, peer-nominated and management approved awards, for performing beyond expectations.  • Achieve consistent reliable delivery of ad hoc ETL data requests from diverse sources. Programmer CRAFTBILT MANUFACTURING - Souderton, PA 2003 to 2005 Developed programs to enhance business operations. Consult with stakeholders in construction of computer programming methods and programs. Monitor program operation and fixing any errors. Presented at various events and venues about configuration software.  • Created Visual Basic 6.0 application to read and manipulated FoxPro tables and update pricing structures ad hoc.  • Developed configurator allowing users to enter parameters and receive exact sunroom material lists with reduced amount of waste.  • Designed user application to control pricing of metal extrusions in real time saving average of 200 annual hours in consultant costs.  • Aided sales team in closing deals by designing Visual Basic tool allowing real-time pricing and configuration of sunrooms while in customer homes. Received positive reviews from trade show demonstrations in Nashville and Las Vegas. Web Developer Software Engineer EASE DIAGNOSTICS - New Milford, PA 2000 to 2002 Automotive and Parts Mfg  Designed, developed, implemented and managed web applications. Researched and recommended software and hardware purchases for company use. Developed and maintained e-commerce web site, including graphics, scripts, testing, debugging, and cross-browser development, allowing submission of most orders from website.  • Developed time management system for in-house and off-site employees to record activities and timesheets submittal; allowed management to view and evaluate projects and create reports.  • Designed website initiating eCommerce component, boosting sales 20% and increasing product identification.  • Initiated new product line with creation of automotive diagnostics tool for WIN CE PDA devices utilizing EVB able to read data directly from car computer. Education COMPUTER LEARNING NETWORK - Camp Hill, PA Skills Data analysis, Data transformation, Sql server, Sql, Visual studio, Javascript, User interface design, Interface design, Vba, Vbscript, Visual basic, Asp, Web design, Cognos, Ssrs, User interface, Excel, Customer service, Problem solving, Reverse engineering Assessments Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7c-bauvrba6tm04s Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Areas of Expertise    Complex Problem Solving  User Interface Design  Web Design & Development  Customer Service  Data Analysis    Agile Methodologies  Project Management  Debugging  Reverse Engineering  Data Transformation    Performance Tuning & Analysis    TECHNICAL SKILLS    VBA (Expert) Visual Studio (Expert) COGNOS BI Stack SQL Server Visual Basic  JavaScript VBScript ASP Access Excel SSIS SSRS