ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT & REHABILITATION TECHNICIAN ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT &amp; REHABILITATION TECHNICIAN ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT & REHABILITATION TECHNICIAN Work Experience ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT & REHABILITATION TECHNICIAN Coastal Physical Therapy - Jacksonville, FL April 2013 to July 2019 Developed and built a physical therapy front end for a new outpatient clinic, including training guide and assisted with each hire as needed for six offices across northeast Florida. Assisted the administer of clinical practice with hires, development, and implantation  of front end practices in effort to create a happy work environment as well as build profit as a whole.  • Greeting patients and assisting patient services coordinator with check-in, collecting co-pays, answering phones, and scheduling  appointments. Performed insurance verification, eligibility, and counseling to patients on their insurance and payment issues prior to physical therapy services being rendered. Maintained electronic records of patient interactions and transactions, recording details  of inquiries, complaints, and comments, as well as actions taken.  • Assisting patients with their prescribed exercise program, tracking their times and recording their progress for the therapist. Educat- ing patients by demonstrating the proper use of equipment and exercise routines. Developed home exercise programs (HEP) based  upon need with clinical approval. Providing information to patients by answering questions and requests. Maintaining patient confi- dentiality.  • Maintaining a safe and clean working environment by complying with procedures, rules, and regulations.reventative maintenance  and cleaning of equipment. Maintaining physical therapy supplies inventory. Cleaning and organizing treatment areas and linens.  Performing preventative maintenance and cleaning of equipment. Cleaning and organizing treatment areas and linens. MARKETING MANAGER Changes in Motion - Jacksonville, FL January 2012 to April 2013 Acted as lead front desk manager. In charge of 3-4 front end employees and 5-6 clinical employees and 5-6 licensed professional  trainers. Developed schedules to organize profitable growth for a new company. Acted as lead for the entire company behind business  owner and aided in business decisions in efforts to build clientele and improve revenue.  • Assisted in content development for corporate website including content layout, design and website development updates. Managed  all social channels, including copy, graphics and reporting. Built and monitored campaigns in various using marketing systems and tools that are taught by top marketing and sales team members.  • Handled payroll for all staff members including adjusting for tips, usage of spa-based services, and taxes as required in the state of Florida. Ensured that all staff members obtained payment for services rendered during a set pay period by calculating amount earned  and submitting by required time to ensure deposit into employee account or by hand with paper check on a bi-weekly basis. CUSTOM WEB DEVELOPER Web.com - Jacksonville, FL March 2008 to November 2011 • Developed intuitive, usable, and engaging interactions and visual digital designs across the web and mobile platforms. Created web- site layouts and user interfaces using standard HTML/CSS practices.  • Collaborated with cross-functional teams to produce graphical resources in line with branding. Communicating and assisting various  departments throughout the design and production process.  • Identified user experience problems and translating them into actionable items to solve business problems. Crafted wireframes, mockups, site/flow maps to define the user experience. Implemented, tested, and maintained new functionalities and features across  websites in efforts to please user experiences and goals.  • Completed projects from conception to development including logo design, web design, branding and social media management.  Curated effective content to communicate brand messages in fresh, reactive ways.  • Utilized multiple software applications including Photoshop, InDesign to design marketing posts, promotional materials, email blasts  and website components. Implement web widgets and functions to best suit clients businesses including sub scripting tasks, reser- vation software, ecommerce, social feeds, subscription services and media players.  • Designed web designs from scratch. Sliced and coded for real time use. Developed fully functional websites for clients and adjusted  based on need and feedback. Delivered fully functional websites within a timely fashion. Education Bachelors in Psychology in Psychology University of North Florida - Jacksonville, FL August 2005 to May 2010 Bachelors in Graphic Design in Graphic Design University of North Florida - Jacksonville, FL August 2005 to June 2008 Links http://linkedin.com/oneverland