Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer ‘Ewa Beach, HI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Hoike Services Inc - Honolulu, HI February 2008 to June 2019 • Transitioned the legacy insurance system to a new, upgraded insurance system. Created a standalone Microsoft C# program to retrieve and format the Oracle database data to be imported into the new system.  • Implemented new features on the legacy Insurance system.  • Fixed bugs on the various software components of the legacy insurance system.  • Produced reports on demand, and automated their generation if needed.  • Assisted Business Analysts in searching for undocumented information that can only be found embedded within the systems' code, such as rating formulas, discounts, and fees.  • Provided backup to Database Administrator when needed, especially when he goes on vacation or is inundated with work. Web Applications Developer Intern Servco Pacific Inc - Honolulu, HI November 2007 to January 2008 • Developed and updated sales statistics web pages using Adobe ColdFusion Software Engineer II Spirent Communications, Inc - Honolulu, HI June 2004 to June 2007 • Helped in development of Spirent's TestCenter Tcl API for Cisco's command-line HLTAPI specifications. This product helped establish a foothold in Cisco, a major customer.  • Represented Honolulu site for multi-site TestCenter regression system. Created the test foundation for a number of network protocols.  • Assisted various development groups with hardware configuration and daily sanity tests. Prevents developers from breaking main builds, potentially delaying development across the various sites.  • Added new Tcl/C API library features for Spirent's AX/4000 Broadband Test System, a modular, multi- port system that generates broadband test traffic, analyzes full rate traffic in real time, and simulates network induced delays and Quality of Service (QoS) impairments.  • Corrected reported bugs on the AX/4000 GUI software. Education BS in Information and Computer Science University of Hawaii at Manoa - Honolulu, HI Skills Oracle PL/SQL (8 years), SQL (10+ years), Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0 (10+ years), Centura/Gupta (similar to Microsoft Visual Basic 5.0) (10+ years), C (10+ years), C++ (2 years), Tcl (5 years), GNU bash (3 years), Microsoft VBA (3 years), Microsoft Windows Batch Scripts (3 years), HTML (2 years), Microsoft C# (2 years), Java (1 year), Laravel PHP web framework (Less than 1 year), Angular 2+ web application framework (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), COBOL (Less than 1 year)