Full Stack .Net Developer Full Stack .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer San Bernardino, CA Sixteen years experience working on naval computer and weapons systems, including troubleshooting of electronic and electrical systems, Unix and Windows system administration and data base administration. Experience with web application and database programming. Also responsible for training and supervision of personnel on naval weapons systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack .Net Developer LuLaRoe - Corona, CA April 2018 to Present Responsible for the development and day-to-day operations of integration and supply chain services critical to business operations. Assists senior leadership on architecture planning and decision making. Supervises junior developers. Web/SQL Developer Dept of Defense - Riverside, CA September 2014 to October 2017 Responsible for the day-to-day maintenance and development of publicly facing and internal web applications using C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, SQL Server 2008, JavaScript, used for the public dissemination of information of television and radio broadcast information used by United States military, US government civilians, and US government contractors stationed outside the United States.  ? Responsible for maintaining and developing databases used to store television programming schedule information and displaying it on publicly facing website.  ? Responsible for taking input from public affairs and marketing personal and developing web applications to support their mission.  ? Responsible for reviewing legacy and new web applications for security issues and correcting problems when found.  ? Was key member of team defending organization's publicly facing websites during 'Hack The Pentagon' bug bounty beta program. Web/SQL Developer United States Navy - Virginia Beach, VA June 2011 to November 2013 Responsible for the day-to-day maintenance and development of web applications, using C#, ASP.NET 4.0, SQL Server 2005 (T-SQL), JavaScript, and SSRS, used for the collecting of corrosion assessment and repair data for the use of United States Navy surface ship life cycle planning throughout the Navy fleet.  ? Developed tools, using C# .NET 4.0, JavaScript, SQL Server 2005 Database Server, Oracle 10g Database Server, used to maintain, analyze, track and identify issues with collected corrosion data and related assessment and repair job work orders which are generated and inputted to the Navy's maintenance management systems.  ? Responsible for the design, development, and maintenance of a web application and database used for the analysis and reporting of critical problems area related to corrosion and structural integrity of US Navy ships  ? Provided analysis and data inputs, using SQL Server 2005 and Oracle databases programming, used to brief senior Navy personnel on the status of corrosion related issues on US Navy ships  ? Provided technical support to end users of web applications related to the collection of corrosion data for US Navy ships  ? Reviewed VB.NET and C# .NET 4.0 web applications for accuracy and compliance with best practices and security practices. Field Service Technician Anton Parr February 2011 to June 2011 USA  Responsible for the maintenance and repair of various laboratory analytical equipment. Fire Control Technician / Supervisor US Navy March 1994 to February 2011 Supervised 10 junior personnel in corrective and preventive maintenance of advanced weapons system's computers and electronics on board US Navy ships. Ship's Over-The-Horizon Targeting Supervisor. Responsible for the requisitioning of ammunition for all shipboard weapons systems.  ? Lead technician for Tactical Tomahawk Weapons Control System. Performed major system upgrade which included new hardware and software components (Unix, Linux, and Windows based systems). Troubleshoot various electronic and electrical problems, including fiber optic, power system, network, and communication systems.  ? Directly managed a team of 5 personnel in all aspects of weapon system computer maintenance and operations, including tactical use.  ? Three years experience of naval ammunition and weapons procurement. Responsibility for the procurement, receipt, inspection, and inventory of over $20,000,000 of ammunition and weapons, including generating regular reports for senior shipboard officers using PL/SQL querying of the ammunition tracking system's databases.  ? Trained a team of 10 personal from the ground up on Tomahawk tactical procedures in order for certification and deployment.  ? As ship's Assistant Public Affairs Officer, responsible for maintaining ship's public website (both SharePoint based and custom HTML based sites), and all official photography  ? Developed public facing website using SharePoint  ? Certified as Afloat Training Specialist  ? Provided 600 hours of training to over 300 shipboard personnel resulting in enhanced mission readiness.  ? Trained 20 personnel on system administration and operations.  ? Developed a tracking and inventory system for 10,000 classified items.. Education None in Afloat Planning Systems Administrator Fire Controlman "A" School Skills C# (7 years), SQL (10+ years), Javascript (8 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (8 years), SSRS, T-SQL, Ssis, ETL, Sql Server, AWS (Less than 1 year), Azure (1 year), Jquery, Node, Jquery, Node, Nodejs, NET, PHP Military Service Branch: US Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-6 March 1994 to February 2011 Fire Controlman (Weapons Technician/Supervisor)    Supervised 10 junior personnel in corrective and preventive maintenance of advanced weapons system's computers and electronics on board US Navy ships. Ship's Over-The-Horizon Targeting Supervisor. Responsible for the requisitioning of ammunition for all shipboard weapons systems.  ? Lead technician for Tactical Tomahawk Weapons Control System. Performed major system upgrade which included new hardware and software components (Unix, Linux, and Windows based systems). Troubleshoot various electronic and electrical problems, including fiber optic, power system, network, and communication systems.  ? Directly managed a team of 5 personnel in all aspects of weapon system computer maintenance and operations, including tactical use. Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ February 2015 to February 2018 CompTIA Cybersecurity Analyst+ July 2016 to July 2019 Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE:  Leadership Troubleshooting Problem Solving Training  Technical Research Web Programming Database Systems Documentation    SKILLS:  Software/Systems Skills  Cloud: AWS, Azure  Languages/Environments: C#, .NET 4.0, Visual Basic, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery, NodeJS, HTML, Oracle  Operating Systems: Windows, MAC-OS, Linux, Unix  Databases: Microsoft SQL 2005/2008, MySQL, Access, Oracle, MongoDb  Desktop Applications: Microsoft Office, SQL Server Management Studio, Photoshop, Adobe Acrobat  Server Applications: IIS, Microsoft SQL Server, Apache, Nginx