Adjunct Professor Adjunct Professor Graphic/UX Designer + Front-End Developer Philadelphia, PA Work Experience Adjunct Professor Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA 2006 to Present Develop and teach undergraduate clourses in web development and digital media. Guiding students through a series of homework assignments and interactive projects, designed to further their understanding of the various technologies available in today's web environment. Freelance Designer & Developer Malcolm McAtee - Philadelphia, PA 2005 to Present Design and produce print and web assets for a wide range of clients including: universities, filmmakers, furniture manufacturers, non-profits, musicians, political candidates and educational organizations. UX Designer Weavers Way Co-op - Philadelphia, PA March 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities  Designed UI/UX for custom web-based membership management system.   Created event scheduling system in Drupal.  Implemented responsive front end code for www.weaversway.coop. UX Designer Weavers Way Co-op - Philadelphia, PA March 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities  Designed UI/UX for custom web-based membership management system.   Created event scheduling system in Drupal. Contract Web Designer Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA January 2003 to December 2003 Responsibilities  Designed website, brochures and advertisements for Drexel University’s Steinbright Career Development Center. Web Manager Philadelphia Museum of Art - Philadelphia, PA 1998 to 2003 Participated as a key organizer for the design and development of the museum's public website, several special exhibition websites and an institution-wide internal website. Defined and developed site architecture, site functionality, user experience, and content strategy for the museum's public website.    Facilitated communication between curators, educators, department heads, editors, graphic designers, developers, and freelance staff to ensure the graphics and text coincide with the vision of the marketing manager.    Designed and improved the usability and effectiveness of custom web applications used for online ticket sales.    Selected and implemented e-commerce software for the museum's online gift store. Trained gift store employees to use the software to maintain and update store inventory and manage online sales. Web Developer CurtCo Freedom Group - Malibu, CA 1997 to 1998 Designed and developed websites as companions to the following magazines: Atlantic Technology, Home Theater, Mobile Computing, Flight Talk. Education Bachelor of Science in Digital Media Drexel University 2003 to 2005 Skills Graphic Design, Adobe Creative Suite, Illustrator, Photoshop, Typography, User Interface Design, Flash, User Experience, HTML, CSS, Javascript, WordPress, Drupal, Logo Design, Interaction Design, InDesign, Brochures, Posters, Graphics Links http://www.MalcolmMcAtee.com