SOFTWARE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> WEB SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Charlottesville, VA Web developer with 10+ years of front and back end development experience. Mostly .Net, C#, JavaScript and SQL. I enjoy learning new technologies and patterns. Currently preparing to take the Microsoft MTA JavaScript Certification Exam (I've passed the authorized practice exam several times). I'm also training on mobile app design using Xamarin and React Native. I also have formal graphic design training and plenty of UI experience. In my spare time, I enjoy working out and volunteering. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Silverchair - Charlottesville, VA November 2014 to July 2019 • Worked on top selling Scrum team developing large, data rich websites and content tools for big name STEM publishers.   • Supported multiple clients, launched over several years, using different programming languages, patterns and hosts.   • Required broad skill set and strong analytical abilities in order to shift quickly between divergent systems and a large, evolving code base.   • Required significant client side programming, UI skills and the ability to integrate with a variety of third party vendors.  • Required strong interpersonal skills in order to solve problems across multiple teams modifying shared code in a fast paced environment. WEB PROGRAMMER, CONTRACT CONSULTANT Fisher/Federated Auto - Staunton, VA March 2014 to November 2014 • Created custom business to business applications for a complex data set (auto parts, and the associated meta-data, for all major international automobiles, going back several decades).  • Supported and enhanced business web portal providing critical business functions for the parent company and its thousands of retail locations. SYSTEMS ANALYST / WEB PROGRAMMER University of Virginia Alumni Association - Charlottesville, VA 2009 to March 2014 • Authored and managed internal and external applications using C#, SQL and JavaScript. The largest of which being the UVA Alumni Event Registration System which allows alumni to purchase tickets and create a custom schedule.  • Created an event entry ticket bar code scanning system using smart phones, replacing printed guest lists and recording attendance in real time and saving labor hours.  • Programmed web applications consuming popular social media API's such as PayPal, Google Maps, Facebook, and Twitter.  • Supported WordPress installations. SENIOR UI WEB DEVELOPER SNL Financial - Charlottesville, VA March 2007 to March 2009 • Served as a front-end UI developer and JavaScript programmer for corporate websites.  • Created tool that allowed staff to assemble complex SQL queries for web site advertisement publication schedules.  • Managed small team of offshore web developers in India. Provided training.  • Developed complex, drag-and-drop interface using JQuery.  • Rebuilt Classic ASP/VB web pages as ASPX/C# web pages. WEB DEVELOPER Blue Ridge Outdoors Magazine - Charlottesville, VA 2006 to 2007 • Developed custom content management system and web applications using PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, CSS, XML and Flash.  • Set up Apache web server and MySQL database for custom content management system. WEB DEVELOPER/SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR C-VILLE Weekly Newspaper - Charlottesville, VA 2002 to 2006 • Developed custom Quark to Print/ Web workflow system using XML, saving many labor hours.  • Assisted with migration of sales database to newspaper industry standard, Pre1 system.  • Managed site redesign project that increased online content by 1000%. WEB SYSTEMS ANALYST General Electric Corp - Charlottesville, VA 2000 to 2001 • Six month contract to assist during intranet conversion (ASP to JSP) and data migration (SQL to Oracle).  • Developed web applications in JavaScript, ASP and JSP for corporate intranet. WEB ADMINISTRATOR / JAVASCRIPT PROGRAMMER Boxer Learning Inc - Charlottesville, VA 1998 to 2001 • Designed and managed corporate intranet to facilitate group development, using PHP and MySQL.  • Configured and managed LAMP intranet servers.  • Developed award-winning, educational web software. WEBMASTER/DESIGNER C-VILLE Weekly Newspaper - Charlottesville, VA 1997 to 1998 • Designed and developed the company's first website using HTML and Perl.   • Designed advertisements and editorial layouts. WEB DESIGNER The Olympus Group Inc - Alexandria, VA 1995 to 1997 • Designed and created early websites for a variety of well recognized clients, such as the NFL. EDITORIAL EXTERN SPIN Magazine - New York, NY 1995 to 1995 • Assisted national magazine editor with web research. PRODUCTION INTERN Albemarle Magazine - Charlottesville, VA 1994 to 1995 • Helped set up business servers, workstations and phones.  • Designed print and web advertisements for regional lifestyle magazine. Education B.A. University of Virginia - Charlottesville, VA 1987 to 1991 Skills Javascript (10+ years), C# (9 years), html (10+ years), Microsoft Azure (1 year), Amazon Web Services (Less than 1 year), .Net MVC (7 years), SQL and SSMS (5 years), Team Leader (1 year), Azure Continuous Integration (1 year), Vb.Net (9 years), Entity Framework (9 years), Accessibity (1 year), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Git, jQuery, CSS, SQL Server, SQL, XML/XSLT, React (Less than 1 year) Links https://jamanetwork.com http://surgicalcore.org https://aclandanatomy.com/ https://mhmedical.com https://www.hackthebox.eu/home/users/profile/10870 https://otaonline.org/ http://www.topshelfdev.net/B001/ https://github.com/ajhawald