IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager I have over 20 years specializes in application software developement, installation and computer hardware  reparies. I have experience in installing Microsoft server software along with all versions of Microsoft  windows software from Windows 3.1 to Windows 8.    Consultant in Web Design, Databases, Backup and Restore procedures, End user training, Software  Applications, Hardware, Cisco products, Server Software, Large software installations projects, Help Desk, and  other Information Technology. Work Experience IT Manager MCG Group June 2009 to December 2012 Comprehensive windows management and migration from windows 95 to windows XP. Designed and installed Help Desk and database.    Consultant with in-house and clients on new IT solutions. Senior Web Developer New Vision International May 2001 to June 2009 Developed large websites in several languages. Created a shopping cart system for website connecting a  Cobol software to a Microsoft Web Server and SQL database.    Developed websites using C++ and ASP for customers to login on private accounts for a multi level  marketing company.    Developed a Backup and restore procedures for Micrsoft Web Server. Installed and supported in house web  server. Network Administrator Winston & Strawn LLP October 1991 to April 2001 Day to day management of Network and desktop computers for a 100 attorneys and staff.    Installed serveral application softwares and hardware for new IT. Reasearched special software for litigation  support and accounting designed for attorneys. Created training materials for staff, user support for all  software, hardware and network.    Page1  Installation of email and internet for all users. Installed cables for network and related hardware.Set-up  remote installations and WAN.    Designed and created several databases using SQL and Microsoft Database software.    Skills & Expertise  Applications Installations  Migration Projects  Database Design  Microsoft Solutions  Microsoft Network  Backup Solutions  Website Development  Desktop Deployment  Windows Programming  Help Desk Implementation  Hardware Installation  Hardware Reparies  Programming Languages Education Bachelor of Science in Computer and Information Sciences and Support Services DeVry University Phoenix 1983 to 1987