WordPress Developer WordPress <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Web Programmer Pensacola, FL I’m a highly determined, motivated, and versatile full-stack web programmer. Able to work in high stress situations with a team or individually. Great people and leadership skills enable me to coordinate, drive system architecture decisions, and lead many projects from concept stages through the deployment process. Able to provide next-gen solutions and applications through creative thinking and great problem solving skills giving companies a competitive edge and producing outstanding results for customers. I’m eager to take my career to the next level by working in a fast-paced environment with teams that utilize DevOps. Work Experience WordPress Developer SOUTH CHARLOTTE BAPTIST CHURCH - Pineville, NC September 2018 to Present Volunteered to remotely support WordPress web applications for church and school. Kept websites  up-to-date with the latest versions of plugins and themes, redesigned church's home page and the school's faculty and staff page, kept websites up-to-date with upcoming events and photos, and  implemented new calendar plugin. Full-Stack Web Programmer PENSACOLA CHRISTIAN COLLEGE - Pensacola, FL July 2012 to 2019 Designed, developed, and supported web applications using C#, ASP.NET, JavaScript, and Oracle.  Worked with team members to maintain web applications for customers and administrative website for customer service.    Accomplishments  ? Implemented many new features.  ? Worked closely with users and stakeholders to perform a major redesign and rebranding of the customer portals.  ? Researched and integrated new technologies and software solutions.  ? Performed code reviews to validate design structures, evaluate for security weaknesses, and verified browser and device compatibility.  ? Integrated third party chat.  ? Integrated SaaS digital testing platform into customer portals.  ? Implemented SSL on websites.  ? Optimized SQL for speed and performance resulting in 30% increase in performance across database systems.  ? Maintained regression test library for Oracle PL/SQL code.  ? Trained new programmers and supervised them to ensure that coding standards are followed. Environmental Services Student Worker PENSACOLA CHRISTIAN COLLEGE - Pensacola, FL 2008 to 2011 As a student worker, I worked independently and on teams to keep college facilities clean. I took  pride in exceeding my supervisor's expectations. Education BS in Computer Science PENSACOLA CHRISTIAN COLLEGE - Pensacola, FL Skills Javascript, Website, Wordpress, HTML5, CSS3 Additional Information LinkedIn Learning Courses Completed    • WordPress 5 Essential Training - 1h 54m  • Learning Genesis for WordPress - 55m  • WordPress: Contact Forms (2017) - 1h 40m  • Installing and Running WordPress: WAMP - 57m  • Cybersecurity Awareness: Building Your Cybersecurity Vocabulary - 1h 9m  • Cybersecurity Awareness: Security Overview - 27m  • Cybersecurity Awareness: The Internet of Things (IoT) - 54m  • IT Security Foundations: Core Concepts - 1h 13m  • Analyzing Your Website to Improve SEO - 1h 47m  • Making Decisions - 11m