Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Zendesk Bethesda, MD Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Zendesk - San Francisco, CA July 2014 to Present Customer Service Portal- Built a customer support web form using Zendesk. This allows the customer support team to easily access data one help requested.  Key Responsibilities  • Designed SPAs (Single Page Application) using Angular.JS concepts of Directives, Services, Promises, Templating, Scope, Dependency Injection and two-way data binding.  • Migrated some of the application from Angular.JS 1 to Angular 2 and componentize the code as per the Angular.JS recommendations for better testability.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility for JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, and squashed bugs in several browsers and devices.  • Added a custom implementation of a gesture based navigation on page with snapping through the use of Vanilla JavaScript.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation using various frameworks like React.JS and Backbone JS.  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Extensive used of Angular.JS for developing the SPAs (Single Page Application) for internal application/tool.  • Created Web Application with real-time, two-way connection, where both Client and Server can initiate communication by using Angular.JS.  • Used Source Repository GIT stash to maintain current and previous builds. Used GIT to check-in and GIT Bash for check-out.  • Provided maintenance and features creation using front-end web technologies such as HTM 5, CSS3, Ajax, jQuery, and other client-side web development processes.  • Created and optimized graphic application interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Used ES6 and React.JS for constructing the UI with re-usable components.  • Worked on Responsive Web Design (RWD) using media queries and Bootstrap.  • Developed a fully functional module using JavaScript (Backbone.JS and Bootstrap.JS).  • Designed Website Markups using Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator.  • Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.JS to interact with MongoDB.  • Responsible for Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tool such as Chef.  • Migrated Cassandra cluster from one AWS account to another AWS account by using Cloud Formation Templates in JSON.  • Worked on application backend implemented as Node.JS express application server.  • Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring Framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and JSF.  • Updated Agile tracking systems to provide transparency on product and sprint backlogs.  • Wrote test cases in a JavaScript Framework Jasmine to run in a Browser using Karma.  • Wrote SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database using JDBC.  • Implemented procedures for testing and troubleshooting of HTML5 and revised code.  • Developed packages that involve complex PL/SQL codes.  • Worked with two different sources Oracle and Hadoop and display/hide data based on the data source.  • Installed and Configured Eclipse and Websphere application Server.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular.JS .  JavaScript, Angular.JS, HTML5, CSS3, React.JS, Bootstrap.JS, Node.JS, Backbone.JS, AWS, Hadoop, Weblogic, Agile, GIT, Oracle, GITHUB, Protractor, Jasmine, MAVEN, NoSQL, PL/ SQL, JDBC, Cassandra, REST, Eclipse Sr. UI Developer Citi - New York, NY January 2012 to June 2014 OASYS- OASYS is capable of managing the life cycle of numerous products including Credit, Equity, Treasury, Swap, Option, CFDs and other engineered and structured products. OASYS also manages the life cycle of Deals or trades created in other Citi Systems.  Key Responsibilities  • Used Angular.JS built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  • Created Angular.JS controllers, services and used Angular.JS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  • Wrote and modified procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and called them from JavaScript using the local application framework.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Used Backbone.JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model View Controller).  • Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  • Used Angular.JS resources for all data access, encapsulating URL's and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Developed API Gateway using Node.JS and Used MongoDB as a Database for storing information.  • Used Dreamweaver as CSS and HTML Editor for designing new pages.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Designed and implemented core front end API using Node.JS.  • Used Bootstrap.JS for customization of web application.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP protocols.  • Created sequence diagrams to show the page flows using WSAD.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Used Web services (RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Developed RESTful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API.  • Designed the UI and have drawn the UML Use Cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams.  • Developed and implemented web application into this system using SCRUM Agile methods.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit and Version control.  • Used GIT for version control and handled unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Developed Oracle objects such as Tables, Views, Indexes, Procedures, Functions and Packages in PL/SQL.  • Wrote JQUERY function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application.    JavaScript, Angular.JS, Node.JS, React.JS, Backbone.JS, JQuery, Bootstrap.JS, CSS, HTML5, DB2, CRUD, PL/ SQL, WSAD, UML, XML, JIRA, SVN, Junit, Jasmine, Scrum, Spring, Hibernate, MongoDB, SOAP, Eclipse, Websphere Portal Sr. Web Application Developer RXBenefits - Birmingham, AL July 2009 to December 2011 DataNet- Design & development of this application to manage member eligibility and claims. The flow of data is from claim files to the database and vice versa. Data is in the form of Eligibility, Pharmacy and Medical Claims.  Key Responsibilities  • Used JavaScript for client side scripting to reduce server trips and decrease the response time of the web application request.  • Used Angular.JS framework where data from backend is stored in model using http and security configurations for authentication and authorization for populated model on to UI.  • Developed UI event handlers and AJAX callback code using Sencha Ext.JS to interact with the Cloud Web services.  • Used Sencha Ext.JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller).  • Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using Angular.JS directives.  • Used JavaScript to make dropdown menus on web pages and displayed part of a web page upon user request.  • Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Worked on JavaScript for developing and maintaining graphs.  • Developed HTML templates and perform client side Validation using JavaScript.  • Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Angular.JS  • Used date-format and moment packages in Node.JS to save the timestamp in database converting into GMT.  • Developed web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plug-in for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete.  • Created SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures using DB2.  • Developed and implement Hybrid Driven automation testing framework utilizing Java, Test-NG and Selenium Web-Driver.  • Used UML for designing class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Developed Search engine using JSP, presented the XML data in the web pages using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/REST)  • Developed a web control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging.  • Developed EJB'S for the business logic using Session facade pattern and deploying them in Apache tomcat.  • Used various SDLC models like Waterfall, mainly Agile Scrum process.  • Separated all the queries away from the code and moved to the XML files using IBatis implementation.  • Used Node.JS for installing dependency packages node modules, and used project management tools such as JIRA.  • Designed custom cascading prompts using JavaScript and custom UI in Cognos reports.  • Developed stored procedures using TOAD.  • Wrote queries, stored procedures, triggers and functions in SQLServer.  • Worked with Clearcase source management.  • Developed and Deployed application through JBOSS application server.  • Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to compile and deploy J2EE components into the EJB container.  • Utilized Dojo framework for performing front end validations  • Developed EJB'S for the business logic using Session facade pattern and deploying them in Apache tomcat.  • Developed AJAX based web based UI framework by utilizing JQUERY library.  JavaScript, Angular.JS, Sencha Ext.JS, Node.JS, MYSQL, SQL, Server, DB2, HTML, Netbeans, JBoss, APACHE AXIS2, MERCURIAL, Water fall model, UML, ClearCase, Selenium, JSP, EMC Documentum, IBatis, Struts, JQuery, AJAX, DOJO JIRA, Jasper report, Spring, JSF, EJB Fullstack Developer Costco - Issaquah, WA May 2008 to June 2009 Costco Cash Card- This project is to design the website user interface and layout of various pages. The website provides a strong search function by which customers can find products, coupons, recipes and related articles.  Key Responsibilities  • Cleaned up and rewrote front end HTML and CSS to meet validation requirements.  • Converted wireframes and Photoshop documents into functional using JavaScript.  • Developed reusable Ext.JS components such as Viewport, Panel and Grids. Implemented filtering and search functions using Node.JS framework based on MVC pattern.  JavaScript, Ext.JS, Node.JS, HTML, Java, Spring, Hibernate, JUnit, EJB, Log4j, Ant, Swing, NetBeans, Oracle, JDBC UI Developer Siemens Technologies - IN February 2007 to April 2008 PLM Software- This software provides an integrated solution for additive engineering and manufacturing that allows you to quickly reimagine products, retool manufacturing and rethink business models to create breakthrough products and transform your business.  Key Responsibilities  • Utilized Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript and DOM structure to implement various functionalities.  • Worked on responsive version of Ext.JS by using Sencha modern.  JavaScript, Ext.JS, HTML, CSS, Java, JUnit, Ant, Oracle, WebService Education Master's Skills Angular (5 years), Javascript (7 years), HTML (9 years), CSS (9 years), React (5 years), Redux (4 years), Node.JS (6 years), ES6 (4 years), ES7 (2 years), ES8 (1 year), Angular 2 (3 years), Angular 6 (1 year), Angular 7 (Less than 1 year), Angular 5 (Less than 1 year), React Hoc (3 years), React observables (2 years), Redux-saga (3 years), Redux-thunk (2 years), Promises (3 years), AWS (4 years), Spring Security (4 years), Spring Batch (4 years), Angular 2 (4 years), Spring Batch (3 years), Spring Security (2 years), Angular 6 (1 year), Microservices (2 years), Microservices (3 years), Scala (5 years), Akka (3 years), Puppet (3 years), Chef (3 years), Ansible (2 years), Asp.Net (2 years), MongoDB (4 years), Angular 6 (2 years), CakePHP (3 years), Asp.Net (3 years)