Engineer Intern Engineer Intern Engineer Intern - SoCal Gas Tarzana, CA Work Experience Engineer Intern SoCal Gas July 2018 to Present Data mining, Data Analysis, and entering the data conducted from the feature studies on the pipelines to insure  the safety of the pipelines.  ? Managing important documents that has information on the pipelines, to conduct the feature studies using  various softwares.  ? Working with a team on projects to make sure we meet the deadline, and the efficiency of the team  ? Train new interns to make sure they understand the nature of our duties and make sure they are part of the team as quick as possible. Lifeguard/Swimming Instructor CSUN May 2015 to September 2017 Managed schedules, and delegated tasks to team members to assure the productivity of the department  ? Facilitated employee trainings in order to assure a successful hiring/onboarding process.  ? Managed inventory and supplies for weekly classes.  ? Provided swim lessons for campus faculty, staff and students.  ? Provided routine inspections of pool water to test for chemicals and toxins. Web Developer Intern HCETI February 2017 to August 2017 Developed structurally visually stimulating point-of-purchase displays (temporary and permanent) and packaging concepts for products utilizing any type of material that is suitable for the project.  ? Created drawings for current and future projects based on the designs provided by Sales and AV team members  ? Performed, and directed website updates to deliver the best experience for the customer.  ? Coordinated with the sales team to get clients to sign long term contracts with the company to develop and maintain websites or applications Military School December 2013 to December 2014 Trained to work under pressure and fast paced environment.  ? Learned discipline and tolerance to be able to achieve goals and tasks under any circumstances  ? Learned the importance of following the chain of command to assure a well organized and a professional work  environment Education Bachelors in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering California State University August 2014 to May 2020 Skills Data analysis, Etl, Informatica, Mdm, C++, Visio, Matlab, Labview, Microsoft office, Autocad Additional Information SKILLS    ? Microsoft Office ? Informatica MDM  ? AutoCAD ? Visio  ? C++ ? SketchUp  ? Matlab ? LabView  ? Data Analysis ? ETL