Owner Operator - FAA Part Owner Operator - FAA Part Owner Operator - FAA Part - AeroHiView Drone Services Larkspur, CA I am a self-motivated and highly-productive software engineer and a drone pilot. I love learning as well as teaching others and helping my teammates in any way possible. I am an effective communicator, who is empathetic and self-aware, with a passion for programming and drones. As a software engineer and a drone pilot, I became interested in machine learning and AI for drones. I am recently completed a micro master's degree in "Machine Learning" at Johns Hopkins University on Coursera.    https://www.linkedin.com/in/james-dacri/ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Owner Operator - FAA Part AeroHiView Drone Services - Larkspur, CA May 2017 to Present 107 #3911223, FAA 333 Exemption #15303  Professional Drone Services such as Photography, Mapping, Inspections and Training. I also build, test and troubleshoot both hardware and software for drones. I am experienced with flight systems software and hardware using different flight controllers and micro controllers like the Raspberry PI and Arduino. With a master's degree in machine learning I am currently training an AI Tensor flow model to follow and inspect rail road tracks. Power Pole Inspections - PG&E, C2 Group January 2019 to February 2019 Using both the DJI Matrice 210 RTK and the DJI Inspire 2 drones our team inspected over 2000 towers in the Northern California wildfire locations to the Santa Cruz mountains. I logged T&D time as a visual observer and as a pilot. Sr. FrontEnd Web Developer Fair Isaac Corporation - San Rafael, CA March 2013 to May 2017 I was the technical lead for the UI/UX team that developed a web application with over 150 web pages designed for decision making (risk management enterprise software) for financial institutions. This was built using jQuery and bootstrap framework with AJAX calls to a Java backend. Sr. Fullstack Software Engineer Fair Isaac Corporation - San Rafael, CA August 2012 to February 2013 I worked as a Software Engineer who designed, developed and supported http://www.myfico.com using C#.NET and a SQL Server backend. The website is a 24/7 e-Commerce platform with Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliance requirements. Projects included Mobile Web Services, Shopping Cart, and Build Automation. ASP.NET Software Engineer (Contract) Peet's Coffee & Team - Emeryville, CA March 2012 to July 2012 Responsible for development on the ASP.NET platform using C#, SQL Server and LINQ to SQL. Supported internal departments need to automate processes used to run the company. The departments included Sales, Marketing and Manufacturing. ASP.NET Web Developer (Contract) Financial Institutions - Sausalito, CA September 2011 to February 2012 APS.NET Developer responsible for updating the ASP application to the .NET platform using C#, and SQL Server. Completed an analysis of the data in the SQL Server database. The product is utilized by Financial Institutions for deal organization and asset management. ASP.NET Web Developer (Contract) Channel Management Solutions - Novato, CA August 2010 to August 2011 Performed new development and maintenance of ASP.NET (C#) and SQL code for a multi-tier SaaS application. Worked with both on-site and off-shore development teams, using Agile methodology to implement product changes and enhancements for our clients' applications. Incorporated Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2008 database management and Team Foundation Server 2010 for work flows and release management. ASP.NET Web Developer U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary - Oakland, CA January 2004 to July 2009 Responsible for the design, development and implementation of the Area Configuration Control Board Application (ACCB). The intranet application is used for the standardization and tracking of all computer related equipment though out the entire U.S. Coast Guard. Sr. Professional Services Consultant Pacific Visioneering - Los Altos, CA March 1998 to December 2003 Senior CRM Consultant providing Professional Services and Consultation to clients for Vantive and PeopleSoft CRM products. Acted as Primary Resource Engineer on multiple CRM implementation projects. Education Certificate Johns Hopkins University August 2018 M.S. in Computer Science San Francisco State University - San Francisco, CA B.A. in Communication Arts Stanford University Skills .net (5 years), Ajax (4 years), bootstrap (4 years), C# (5 years), Css (Less than 1 year), Html (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), jquery (4 years), Json (Less than 1 year), machine learning (2 years), Ms sql server (10+ years), Mysql (Less than 1 year), Oracle (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), Rdbms (Less than 1 year), Sql (2 years), Sql server (2 years), Vb.net (Less than 1 year), Xml (Less than 1 year) Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E4