Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Business Information Systems Elizabethton, TN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Business Information Systems - Piney Flats, TN 2015 to Present I have headed several web projects, following an SRS and staying in budget and on deadline for the State of Tennessee as well as projects for county clerks of  various states.  ? I am responsible for website maintenance and bug fixes for many enterprise level  websites.  ? My daily tasks include adding customer driven functionality to existing web apps as well as building new ones using javascript, node, vuejs, webpack, php and various  responsive design elements and libraries to build modular sites and components.  ? I am tasked with extensive use and modification of large MySQL and Microsoft  SQL database daily, as well as integrating webapps using both standard  synchronous (OOP) and asynchronous (api) methods both existing and created by me. Web Developer 2017 to 2017 Solely responsible for the design, timeframe, and development of the http://www.isaiah117house.com/ charity website including gathering  specifications from the founders.  ? Added responsive design and integrated with paypal to allow one time and monthly donations. Systems Manager Mahoney's Outfitters - Johnson City, TN 2014 to 2015 I.T. Head for the transition from RICS point of sale system to Celerant  Command Retail.  ? Brought the company up to PCI Compliance according to the PA-DSS 3.0  version and was responsible for the change over to tokenization and Point to  Point encryption through our payment processor, Shift4.  ? Prepared the company for the U.S. transition to EMV chipped credit cards by recommending, purchasing, and installing EMV ready credit card devices.  ? Responsible for coordinating upper management with third party IT groups.  ? In charge of day to day Microsoft Server management.  ? Responsible for re-coding and construction of the store site including payment  acceptance and adding merchandise as well as a mobile responsive interface. Contract Developer The Battery - Johnson City, TN 2014 to 2014 Sole developer for a website and custom content management system including  design, schedule, and development.  ? The system took about 40 man hours and had a reservations, seating, and content  manager. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science East Tennessee State University - East, Tennessee, US 2014 Skills Javascript (6 years), PHP (6 years), vuejs (3 years), HTML 5 (3 years), Jquery, HTML5, HTML