Freelancer Web Developer Freelancer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Los Angeles, CA I pride myself as a logical and creative thinker who enjoys learning new languages, frameworks and technologies. My analytical skills, education, and passion are crucial to be one step ahead in this ever evolving technological industry. My stellar organizational skills are essential to keep code DRY as re-factored as possible. The gratification of solving problems is what drives me to be a better programmer.     A business background combined with the entrepreneurial spirit can be utilized for aligning profitable goals when programming software. Work Experience Freelancer Web Developer Self Employed 2019 to Present ? Working on a range of freelance web projects, including my own portfolio.  ? Developed a series of HTML CSS and JavaScript project for Adler & Associates Entertainment group.  ? Proficient in MERN Stack, MySQL, GitHub and RESTful API and WordPress. Student UCLA Full Stack Web Development Coding Bootcamp - Los Angeles, CA 2018 to 2019 People who completed this course have participated in rigorous, fast-paced, hands-on training in theory and application of full-stack web development. They have covered computer science fundamentals, design patterns and algorithms, followed by a deep dive into the basics of coding and data structure. They will have a mastery in the following topics and skills:    • Building and implementing dynamic end-to-end web applications  • Developing user-friendly, programmer-friendly, customer-friendly, reliable, and easily readable JavaScript applications  • Building versatile JavaScript applications  • Understanding concepts and terminology of object-oriented programming  • Designing applications employing the most common design patterns  • Coding HTML/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, React, Node), and MySQL Assistant General Manager Four Seasons Hotel and Resorts | Cut by Wolfgang Puck 2014 to 2017 ? Increased customer satisfaction rate by developing and elevating guest service experience.  ? Decreased IT issues with Squirrel Software system, such as frozen system, upgrades or change of style. Also decreased labour cost by creating financial spreadsheet analysis for the restaurant and the hotel based upon implemented daily data. Senior Manager Wolfgang Puck 2013 to 2014 ? Proven records of leadership and training a team of over 60 members.  ? Increased revenue, by actively working with the reservation system team in creating ways of maximizing the amount of seating in the restaurant to implement data, based on dining time, reservation hours and number of tables algorithms. Education Certificate in Computer Science and Programming UCLA Full Stack Web Development - Los Angeles, CA 2019 High school or equivalent in Business, Business Administration School of Business Administration - Rome, IT 2005 Skills Css (2 years), Firebase (1 year), Html (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Mysql (2 years), Wordpress, HTML5, Front End, HTML5, Jquery, Front End, Bootstrap Links http://cj--portfolio.herokuapp.com http://www.linkedin.com/in/corradoalfano https://github.com/Corry104 Certifications/Licenses Full Stack Web Developer February 2019 to Present People who completed this course have participated in rigorous, fast-paced, hands-on training in theory and application of full-stack web development. They have covered computer science fundamentals, design patterns and algorithms, followed by a deep dive into the basics of coding and data structure. They will have a mastery in the following topics and skills:    • Building and implementing dynamic end-to-end web applications  • Developing user-friendly, programmer-friendly, customer-friendly, reliable, and easily readableJavaScript applications  • Building versatile JavaScript applications  • Understanding concepts and terminology of object-oriented programming  • Designing applications employing the most common design patterns  • Coding HTML/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, React, Node), and MySQL Full Stack Web Developer February 2019 to Present People who completed this course have participated in rigorous, fast-paced, hands-on training in theory and application of full-stack web development. They have covered computer science fundamentals, design patterns and algorithms, followed by a deep dive into the basics of coding and data structure. They will have a mastery in the following topics and skills:    • Building and implementing dynamic end-to-end web applications  • Developing user-friendly, programmer-friendly, customer-friendly, reliable, and easily readableJavaScript applications  • Building versatile JavaScript applications  • Understanding concepts and terminology of object-oriented programming  • Designing applications employing the most common design patterns  • Coding HTML/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, React, Node), and MySQL Additional Information Technical Skills  Visual Studio Code, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL, Bootstrap, Handlebars, Firebase, Cookies, Local Storage, RESTful API, Security and Session Storage, User Authentication, MERN Stack, Heroku, GitHub, Algorithms, WordPress