Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Sacramento, CA Work Experience Software Developer UC Davis Mouse Biology Program - Davis, CA May 2017 to Present • Lead the data collection efforts of several laboratory experiments involving mutant knockout mice.  • Developed an online tool to parse large amounts of experiment data from Excel spreadsheets to process and store in a MySQL  database.  • Develop and maintain mice colony management tool that helped save over $1M in the colony production process.  • Utilize CakePHP to create pages to add, view, edit, and delete experiment data.  • Gather and upload mice data to the International Mouse Phenotyping Consortium (IMPC) through the IMPC API.  • Improve site loading time by refactoring front-end code and optimizing SQL queries. Full Stack Developer Cambria Solutions - Sacramento, CA Present Web Application Developer California Public Employees' Retirement System (CalPERS) - Sacramento, CA January 2016 to May 2017 • Developed, implemented, and maintained dynamic web applications using CalPERS in-house LAMP MVC framework.  • Participated in Joint Application Design sessions with UX designers and project stakeholders to rapidly develop working  prototypes of proposed applications.  • Developed and implemented new features on the CalPERS website while maintaining ADA compliance.  • Responsible for developing the Power Finder and Mentor Matchmaker features on CalPERS' internal professional networking site  called illuminet which provides staff the opportunity to voluntarily share and document their knowledge, skills and certificates and search for potential mentors.  • Built admin dashboards using D3.js to display workforce and succession analytics from Oracle and MySQL databases.  • Lead the development of the CalPERS IT Career Fair Registration site that allows potential attendees to register for the event,  upload resumes/cover letters, check in via QR code, and receive emails and text messages from the CalPERS project team.  • Build ServiceNow portal applications using Angular.js and Bootstrap to streamline CalPERS application development process and provide proof of concepts. Software Developer Runding Corporation - Folsom, CA October 2014 to January 2016 Assisted with the design, development, and implementation of Walt Disney Imagineering's Next Generation Project Management  Control System supporting 3,000+ users. Key technologies involve a multithreading, true event-driven model and a highly  scalable and high-performing server/client model.  • Participated in all phases of the project, including business process evaluation, requirements gathering, unit testing, system  testing, user acceptance testing, deployment, and production training and support.  • Involved in the design and development of data migration for the system being retired to the Go-Live System. More than  50,000 cost control and instruction documents migrated from multiple program areas and projects.  • Produced clean and modular code that accommodates all browsers and devices.  • Developed algorithms to streamline document management and workflow processes based on complex business logic and user  roles.  • Managed metadata for process and security configurations.  • Responsible for visualizing contract and change control data into various charts using Chartist.js.  • Played a key role in software verification and validation, version control, defect tracking, and documentation. Education BS in Computer Science Oregon State University - Corvallis, OR September 2015 to December 2018 Skills MYSQL (2 years), BOOTSTRAP (1 year), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (1 year), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (1 year), MVC (1 year), Javascript, Git, PHP Links http://www.jadetran.co Additional Information SKILLS  Experienced: JavaScript, Node, PHP, React, HTML/CSS, Angular, MySQL, NoSQL, Wireframing, MVC, Agile,  SDLC, Wordpress, Bootstrap