Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Bensalem, PA • 3+ years of work experience in development using .Net and software testing.  • Proficient in .Net development with good expertise in C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net.  • Proficient in SQL Server/Oracle.  • Excellent Analytical and Development Skills  • Extensive Background in Full life Cycle of Software development Process including requirements gathering, Design, Coding, Testing, Debugging and maintenance.  • Good at analyzing Business Requirements, Functional and Technical Specifications  • Expertise in developing and executing Test cases as per the end-user requirements.  • Solid record of establishing good relationships with operations, development and support teams as well as client.  • Strong problem solving, communication, teamwork skills and adaptive to changes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Voluntary Job September 2012 to November 2013 Rishi Valley Website- This is a website developed for an organization called Rishi Valley. The purpose of this website is to broaden the awareness of the environment and protecting the rare species of birds and insects.  ? Vizmaya Website -This website provides information about travel and tours, recipes, book reviews etc.  ? Gathered the requirements from the client.  ? Identified the features to be developed  ? Developed the web pages using HTML, JavaScript and PHP. Software Engineer IPSR Solutions Ltd March 2007 to February 2009 Developed 'E-Commerce Site'- provides standard features of any e-commerce website. Some of its features includes Registration for new users, Login for existing users, Search Products by price range and/or category and Edit user profile such as address, contact information and password  ? Developed the 'CARE' system - Hospital Management System, manages information of Doctors, nurses, patient, medical history, pharmacy, medications, bills and payments.  ? Involved in all phases of the project including requirements gathering, Design, Prototype, Coding, Testing and Troubleshooting.  ? Responsible to convert Client requirements into system and application design.  ? Responsible for communicating with other IT groups and Clients in collecting the requirements and also implementing the applications.  ? Develop and deploy the functional changes required for the application as per the business requirements.  ? Created tables and stored procedures in SQL Server  ? Prepared test plans.  ? Executed unit and integration testing.  ? Provide support to existing Clients Education Msc in Computer Science 2005 to 2007 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems: Window XP, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10  Languages: C, C++, C#, ASP.NET, XML, HTML, SQL  Databases: SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2008, Oracle (PL/SQL)  Browsers: Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Firefox  Documentation Tools: Microsoft Office Suite