Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer ReactJs Developer Rahway, NJ Expert frontend developer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Cherre inc. - New York, NY August 2018 to Present Chere provides investors, insurers, brokers and other large enterprises with a platform to collect, resolve, and augment real estate data from thousands of public, private, and internal sources. By providing a “single source of truth,” we empower you to evaluate opportunities and trends faster and more accurately, while saving you millions of dollars in manual data collection and analytics costs.    Using bleeding edge technology such ReactJS and Redux, NodeJS, GraphQL, docker/kubernetes and Material UI to build and maintain Cherre's unique web applications.   Built the front end for a wide range of products that Cherre offers using ReactJs, Redux, HTML5, CSS3 and ES6 JavaScript.   Utilize Material-UI and styled components to build rich UI.  Contributed to backend-end development using Nodejs, BookShelf, MongoDB, MySQL and PostgreSQL.  Use GraphQL and normal CRUD to make API’s.   Build upon G-suit/google Cloud.  Senior Frontend Developer National Debt Relief - New York, NY August 2017 to Present Build a lending platform with bleeding edge technologies listed below:    ReactJS & Redux, Nodes, HTML5, CSS3, Scss, JavaScript and Amazon- web-services AWS | API gateway|Lambda function and Mango BD and DynamoDB Senior Frontend Developer Mullen Lowe - New York, NY May 2017 to July 2017 Senior Frontend Developer  May 2017 - July 2017 (3 months)  Build frontend projects according to provided designs and functional specifications.  Write clean and readable code, review and refactor code written by the developers, helping them to grow to the right direction in improving their output.  Technologies  CSS, JavaScript, Nodejs, HTML3 and Implementation of Gigya web-services and React and Redux. Software Engineer OnDeck April 2014 to May 2017 UI Designer/ Developer, Front End Developer  Developed HTML5 structures  Styled with CSS3  Bootstrap and Jquery UI for most APIs.  Angular JS Environment.  RWD (Responsive Web Design) Utilizing tools such as Media Queries, Java Script and JQuery  Mobile.  Hand over HTML to Angular developers for Integration.  Utilized Agile methodology and participates in daily scrum meetings Using JIRA. UI Developer A&E Television January 2014 to March 2014 Developed an In-House workflow application for rapid receiving and information sharing.    UI Developer Front End Developer  Developed HTML5 structures  Styled with CSS3  Bootstrap and Jquery UI for most APIs.  RWD (Responsive Web Design) Utilizing tools such as Media Queries, Java Script and JQuery  Mobile.  Hand over HTML to Backend developers for dynamic content development.  Utilized Agile methodology and participates in daily scrum meetings Using JIRA as out Tool.  Worked in a team to develop dynamic webpages using PHP. UI Developer Knowledgent May 2013 to January 2014 Developing and world-class web application for RS Investments. RSI is redeveloping there website to investors to view their funds and strategies when and where they want. Additional functionalities  are implemented for literature and interest magazines ordering. In keeping up with today's advance  society the application is developed for all devices using responsive web designs. Web Developer Global Card Solutions Inc June 2012 to May 2013 • Developed rich components using Html5, CSS3, Web 2.0, JavaScript, JQuery, Adobe CS5 tools.  • Developed pages for User Enrollment, Accounts Creation for one time and reloadable card  issuance, Credit-card information capture to buy Card or events' tickets.  • Team work in developing Single Page Application (SPA).  • Provided Open Source Solutions and content management with frameworks like Drupal 7, and Wordpress.  • Created internet marketing campaigns using SEM and SEO to promote clients' websites to increase their visibility on search engines and other portal sites.  • Used paid advertising with Ad Words and pay per click campaigns  • Implemented social media marketing using Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn.  • Controlled and managed the websites using Cpanel and WHM.  • Used SQL Developers Data Modeling (SDDM) for Data Modeling.  • RWD (Responsive Web Design) Utilizing tools such as YUI and EXT-JS, Java Script etc. Webmaster/ Developer January 2010 to June 2012 Developed rich components using Html 5.0, DHtml, CSS 3.0, Web 2.0, XHTML, JavaScript,  JQuery using Dreamweaver, Flash and Photoshop.  • Utilized CMS - Wordpress 3.xx, to manage content and data of client.  • Created internet marketing campaigns using SEM and SEO to promote clients' websites to increase their visibility on search engines and other news portal sites.  • Used paid advertising with AdWordsandpay per click campaigns  • Submitted articles to relevant blogs and news portals to promote client websites  • Used web advertising and made sure SEO has been done for each client website  • Implemented social media marketing using Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn.  • Install and configure Wordpress Modules and maintain the web site for them.  • Created and installed new modules in the system according to the business needs.  • Assisted with the system configuration, troubleshooting and transitioning the system to a cloud  server environment.  • Maintained the websites' MySQL database.  • Managed the websites' back-end using web Cpanel and WHM.  • Programmed using PHP/MySQL interactive content using web service and public API's. CUSTOMS OFFICER/ Technical Support Team Lead January 2006 to June 2010 • Implemented web servers, database server and related infrastructures.  • Designed, developed, tested, and integrated Intranet and Internet web sites for both internal and outside users.  • Created database on SQL server; designed and created tables, views, triggers and stored  procedures.  • Administrated Intranet and Internet web sites Education Bachelors of Science in Management Information Systems Excelsior Community College 2003 to 2007 Clan Carthy High School Skills Front End, React, UI, Javascript, Front-End, Node, Bootstrap, CSS3 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/sadikie-williams-bsc-mis-29a87655