IT Manager IT Manager Crownsville, MD Work Experience IT Manager Maryland Historical Society - Baltimore, MD October 2005 to Present Technology Operations Management 2005-Present  • Administration, configuration, and security policy development for firewalls, VPNs and remote access.  • Installation, configuration, maintenance and upgrade of network consisting of 12 mixed-platform application and file servers (Windows, Linux), 60+ Mac/Windows workstations and 2 external cloud servers.  • Develop long-term and near-term plans for IT hardware, software and service solutions.  • Partner with education and museum staff to develop exhibition content and experiences deployed on iPads.  • Develop and administer plans to manage IT risks, data security, privacy, redundancies and continuity.   • Develop and enforce organizational technology policies, accepted practices and procedures.  • Provide daily support and break/fix – hardware, network, software, printers, copiers and mobile devices.  • Maintain organizational websites and train staff to update digital properties using Drupal/Wordpress CMS.  • Administration/maintenance of keyless entry and video security systems. Develop physical access policies to areas containing valuable museum collections for more than 50 staff and volunteers.  • Deploy patches and security updates to workstations and servers via Microsoft WSUS.  • Support software and applications including Microsoft Exchange, MIP Accounting, Blackbaud Raiser’s Edge, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Office 365, Symantec Antivirus, Avast Business Antivirus and Adobe CS/CC.  • Collaborate with departments to develop requirements, test, select and implement various software packages.   • Manage technology budget and vendors. Negotiate contracts.  • Create, implement and document backup procedures for all network resources.  • Maintenance of Panasonic and Avaya digital phone systems.  • Installation of network/phone cabling. Perform terminations, jack and patch panel installations.  • Track all organizational assets.    Maryland Historical Society Exchange to Office 365 email migration - 2019  • Formulated budget with senior management for migration of email services from onsite Exchange to Office 365 Hosted Exchange. Created RFP to disseminate to various companies. Reviewed proposals and selected vendor.  • Worked with vendor to create project milestones. Created “what to expect” documentation for users based on discussions with vendor. Assisted vendor with installation of migration tool.  • Verified move of all Office user profiles and 150 mailboxes, lists and calendars after service cut-over. Provided post-cutover support for end users and performed manual migrations where necessary.  • Project completed on-time and 10%+ under budget.    Maryland Historical Society Campus-wide Wifi installation - 2018   • Formulated budget with senior management for installation of Wifi network throughout three buildings on the MdHS campus. Created RFP to disseminate to various companies. Reviewed proposals and selected vendor.  • Reviewed site installation plan with vendor. Assisted with cable runs and installed racks for MDFs.  • Project completed on-time and 15% under budget.    Maryland Historical Society CRM onsite to cloud migration - 2017   • Collaborated with Development Manager to assess current Blackbaud CRM system. Explored various software packages. Opted to migrate to cloud-based Blackbaud system based on business requirements, newly-introduced functionality, ease of integration and vendor’s ability to expedite migration.  • Worked with Development Manager and vendor to create milestones. Provided vendor with scrubbed data dumps and reviewed configuration of sandbox environment. Assisted users with testing and provided vendor with feedback and change orders. Configured workstations for new system and provided post-cutover support.   • Project completed on-time and on-budget. Web Developer Discovery Communications - Silver Spring, MD March 2008 to October 2008 Creative website application developer with experience in open-source and proprietary coding technologies for global cable television network.    Discovery “Ad Sales” website - 2008  • Collaborated with business customer and design team to formulate requirements for website allowing salespeople to create customized one-sheets and collateral for prospective clients.  • Incorporated functionality using Coldfusion and MYSQL into design provided by design team.   • Project completed on-time and on-budget.    Discovery Communications “Shark Yourself” website app - 2008  • Collaborated with business customer and design team to develop concept and formulate requirements.   • Worked with lead developer to create website-based app for “Shark Week” to allow users to upload a photo of themselves, add shark’s “teeth” and share via social media or SMS texts. IT Manager/Associate Advertising Manager The Rosen Group - Baltimore, MD June 2001 to October 2005 Versatile IT Manager and Advertising Manager responsible for managing all information technology needs for arts marketing and publishing firm. Experienced manager for 3 salespeople and 2 graphic designers.    The Rosen Group – IT Manager 2001-2005  • Internalized hosting and maintenance for 3 company sites. Migrated hosting platforms to Red Hat Linux.  • Maintained/secured network of more than 8 Windows servers and 40 Mac/Windows workstations.  • Performed upgrades and offered daily break/fix support.  • Supported client applications including Office, FileMaker Pro, Peachtree Accounting and Adobe products.    The Rosen Group – Advertising Manager, Niche and AmericanStyle Magazines 2001-2005  • Managed publication advertisement workflow for team of 2 graphic designers and 1 advertising coordinator.  • Managed team of 3 salespeople and formulated sales target for each individual.  • Maintained advertising client relationships and functioned as point of escalation for satisfaction issues. Education Bachelor of Arts in American Studies University of Maryland - College Park, MD Bachelor of Science in Applied Information Technology University of Baltimore - Baltimore, MD Skills Linux, Active directory, Network administration, Cms, Html, Sql, Coldfusion, Budgets, Vendor management, Contract negotiation, Strong communication skills, Training Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  Technology Expertise  • Network administration  • Desktop installation & support  • Website development/CMS  • Phone systems  • Keyless entry/security cameras  • Active Directory  • Software support    Management  • Vendor management  • Contract negotiation  • Technology budgets  • Training  • Project management  • Internalizing/formalizing IT  • Strong communication skills    Platforms & Languages  • Windows 9x-10  • Windows Server NT-2012  • Linux - CentOS, Ubuntu  • Mac8.6-10.X  • ColdFusion  • HTML  • SQL