Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - PowerSchool Kansas City, MO Work Experience Software Engineer PowerSchool - Shawnee, KS August 2017 to Present Responsibilities: As a software engineer, I'm responsible for the new features and maintenance of a web based suite of software products that allows K-12 schools to field applicants, hire, onboard and evaluate talent. Working with technologies such as C#, VB.Net, WebAPI, and SQL Server Databases. Sr. Web Developer/Analyst Forrest T. Jones and Co - Kansas City, MO August 2005 to August 2017 Responsibilities: As a senior web developer, lead project teams in the development of new applications as well as efforts to update and maintain existing applications and systems used company wide. Extensive use of Agile Software Development Methodologies to prioritize system functionality and timelines. Ability to switch from technical to non-technical terminology has been key to interact with Agile Product owners and other cross-functional team members. Primary development tools have been Visual Studio utilizing C#, ASP.NET and SQL Server. Developer/Analyst Software Outfitters - Overland Park, KS November 2003 to August 2005 Responsibilities: Design, develop and implement internet applications using Microsoft's .NET development platform with MS SQL back end. Developed several database driven, dynamic internet and intranet websites, intergrading 3rd party software applications. As a lead programmer, developed a secure e-commerce site. As a team effort, I contributed to the establishment of standards and better coding practices. Development tools used include: C#, ASP.NET, VB.NET, Visual Studio .NET 2003, Multi tiered architecture, SQL Sever 2000 development tools, Transact-SQL, transactional processing, Windows Services Applications, Windows Console Applications, web services, Chart Director, , XML, HTML, VB Script, JavaScript, and XML-RPC. Programmer/Analyst - Project Leader Lanter Logistics - Excelsior Springs, MO April 2002 to November 2003 Responsibilities: Analyze, design, develop and implement web based traffic management systems using Microsoft's .NET development platform. As a project leader, involved in all system design and implementation decisions, establish and maintain design and development standards, manage time lines, and mentor less experienced developers. Development tools used include: ASP.NET, VB.NET, Visual Studio .NET, Multi tiered architecture, SQL Sever 2000 development tools, complex stored procedures, transactional processing, Windows Services Applications, Windows Console Applications, web services, Crystal Reports, XML, HTML, VB Script, and JavaScript. Web Developer Corvus - Louisville, KY July 2000 to November 2001 Responsibilities: Develop and maintained dynamic, interactive web applications. Using tools such as Microsoft Visual Studio .NET, Internet Information Services, Visual InterDev, and SQL. Strong skills in HTML, ASP, VB Script, Transact-SQL, Visual Basic and JavaScript. Develop and implement system design specifications for database and programming projects in a team environment. Manage multiple development projects to deliver those projects within aggressive deadlines. Obtained the lead developer position on a team to create an online project management application and also for the Corvus Corporate Internet and Intranet site as well as designing, coding, and implementing online administrative functionality for these sites. Performed Analysis and Design, to create the second version of an online order fulfillment application for Fidelity Investments as well as development of both the pubic and administrative phases of the project. Systems Administrator American Cold Storage - Louisville, KY July 1999 to July 2000 Responsibilities: Administer and maintain a RS/6000 with an AIX-UNIX operating system with 25 users. Troubleshoot Network connectivity problems. Provide technical support and training for users, including writing technical documentation, developing training programs, and implementation plans for new computer systems. Implemented an MS Back Office Server. Using an Ethernet bus topology with TCP/IP protocol. Designed maintained company web site using. Design and implement new systems and procedures. Creating Cost/Benefit analysis and accountable for all computer-related hardware, software and systems purchasing. Night Operations/Network Administrator Thomas Transportation Group - Louisville, KY September 1997 to February 1999 Responsibilities: Performed night dispatch operations and Administrator duties for a small flatbed carrier with $10 million in annual revenues. Maintained a Novell Network with 22 users, created users, user groups and directories for each, assigned privileges and security, and performed nightly system back-ups. Solved problems and provided computer solutions for in-house personnel using packaged software. Used TMS, Truck Management Systems, a trucking based software package. Collected data and produced a daily activity report using Excel spreadsheets and charts. Produced weekly, monthly, and annual revenue and growth analysis reports. Took incoming calls from customers, agents and contractors. Analyzed and solved problems that occurred after regular business hours. Education B.S.B.A in Computer Information Systems University of Louisville - Louisville, KY AA Maple Woods Community College - Kansas City, MO Skills Data integrity, Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Sql, Stored procedures, Asp, Asp.net, Web design, Web services, C#, Coding, Content management, Html, Javascript, Vb.net, Xml, jquery, Analyzer, Git Certifications/Licenses Driver's License