UI Lead/ Developer, Retail Bank UI Lead/<span class="hl">Developer</span>, Retail Bank UI Lead/ Developer, Retail Bank - Citigroup Dallas, TX • Front-end Developer with around 11+ years of experience in User Interface (UI) application development.  • Proficient in developing Web applications using HTML 4.0/5.0, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, DOM, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, and XML  • Extensive experience with Responsive Web Design and creating cross browser compatible applications using HTML5 and CSS3 confirming Web 2.0 standards using Angular 6/7 Framework.  • Knowledge of using XML/JSON and AJAX to link with Back-end applications.  • Worked extensively in Agile development process. Working closely with Business Analysts to gather requirements.  • Sound knowledge of Object Oriented design, MVC Architecture and successful implementation of the same.  • Proficiency in Application Programming using Java, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Spring, DOM/SAX, JDBC, Web Services, JSON, Tag Libraries, JUnit and related technologies like Struts Framework, JDBC.  • Knowledge of tagging and scripting languages like JSTL. Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design using UML and Rational Rose.  • Proficient in various Software development tools like SQL Plus, SQL Worksheet, Toad, and version control systems like CVS, clear Quest, & Git.  • Impressive interpersonal skills, quick learner, adaptability to new environment and a good team player. Work Experience UI Lead/ Developer, Retail Bank Citigroup - Irving, TX September 2016 to Present Lending Platform  • Worked with the project manager/scrum masters to create communication plan. Planned and created written communication with various stakeholders.  • Worked with business to understand the functional and non-functional requirements  • Created process flows, conceptual diagrams, wireframes, and mockups to effectively communicate high-level design strategies and detailed interaction behaviors.  • Mentored by pair programming and code reviews with developers to uphold coding best practices.  • Experience in building end to end web applications using MEAN stack with Angular 6/7.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript with ES5 and JQUERY.  • Responsible for building responsive front-end web applications using CSS, Bootstrap, and Angular 6/7 to create an interactive user interface.  • Developed the UI layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matched requirements. Working in the Agile/Scrum development environment with frequently changing requirements and actively participated in scrum meetings and reviews.  • Code, test, debug, implement, and support applications  • Unit testing with Karma.  • Experience as Java developer with very good understanding of Microservices architecture.  • Working experience in Sprint Boot, spring cloud and angular 6/7.  • Framework technologies: Spring Framework, REST Standards.  • Ability to manage multiple priorities and projects coupled with the flexibility to quickly adapt to ever-evolving business needs.  • Cloud foundry - Understanding and implementation applications in Pivotal platforms.  • GitHub or Bit Bucket and CI/CD with Jenkins & Deployment tool.  • Ability to communicate effectively, both written and verbal, with technical and non-technical cross-functional teams & Technical problem solving skills.    Technologies & Environment: JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3,html, AngularJs 6/7, Rest, Git, Karma, gulp, Node.js  D3js, Bootstrap, Apache, Java, JSP, Bootstrap, XML, MVC Framework, RTC, Visual Studio. Senior Lead UI Developer, Web and mobile app Avaya - Irving, TX September 2013 to August 2016 • Responsible for building responsive front-end web applications Used JSP, JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS to create an interactive user interface.  • Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Angular JS.  • Written code in jQuery/JavaScript /CSS/AJAX for the navigation oriented application. Created Dynamic Integration of jQuery Tab, jQuery, and other jQuery component integration with Ajax.  • Built multiple web pages with the help of Event-driven programming offered by Node JS.  • Used Firebug for debugging and for element styling. Resolved some cross browser issues.  • Worked on new products and enhancements of existing web application as part of a cross-functional project team.  • Worked with latest technologies like D3js to create dashboards for partner portal for Avaya web pages.  • Worked on REST Web Services Consumption, JS Unit Testing  • Prototyped and demoed several versions of possible UI approach to provide choices to the business.    Technologies & Environment: JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, AngularJs 1.3, Rest, Git, Karma, Grunt, Node.js  D3js, Bootstrap, Webstrom, Apache 2.2. Senior Lead Web Developer, RedBox Instant for Samsung TV Verizon - Irving, TX November 2012 to September 2013 • Responsible for web application enhancements and involved in various initiative for web development  • Developed Interactive user interfaces using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer using JavaScript, jQuery. Integrated JSON data using Java script.  • Integrated In-Application Purchase API to enables users to purchase items using their Samsung Apps account.  • Worked with Samsung web design API, Interactive remote API, common module API for developing the UI.    Technologies & Environment: JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Samsung SDK, Eclipse, Apache 2.2.    Video Media Server-Provisioning  • Worked with user controls using jQuery Plugins (calendar, date picker, jqGrid, model dialogs, lightbox CKEditor, etc.) and other scripting tools.  • Developed HTML form values without refreshing page using jQuery and Ajax.  • Designed and developed a perfect CSS form validation using JavaScript regular expression.  • Created XML files and XSL/XSLT/XPATH for Presentation and transferring Data to HTML page.  • Developed different modules for consuming JSON/XML from Web Services. Used Web Services for some new add-on App Modules.  • Worked with Samsung web design API, Interactive remote API, SEF Plugin, common module API for developing the UI.    Technologies & Environment: JavaScript, bacbone.js, Node.js, Dust, CSS3, Html5, webStrom6.0, Apache 2.2. UI Developer Amtel Inc - Santa Clara, CA May 2012 to September 2012 • Responsible for web 2.0 migration of the enterprise web application, involved in various initiative of enhancement, user interaction to develop prototypes.  • Developed user controls using jQuery and other scripting tools.  • Developed the pages according to W3C standards and Section 508 compliant. Developed HTML form values without refreshing page using jQuery and Ajax.  • Used CSS (Cascading Style Sheet), HTML, DHTML and JavaScript. Developed CSS to control the style and layout of multiple web pages.  • Developed different modules for consuming JSON/XML from Restful Web Services.  • Developed application using JSP and AJAX under Eclipse, Tomcat environment. Extensively used controls such as Data Grid and Data List to populate the records for presentation layer.  • Developed XML Services for storing and retrieving data. Handled JSON/XML data from the connected to Spring MVC controller and displayed in the respective controls using jQuery and JavaScript presentation layer.  • Used AJAX and JSON for transmitting data and integrated with Spring Controller. Coded the forms for creating Compass stories using HTML, JavaScript    Technologies & Environment: JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, Html5, CSS, Eclipse, JavaScript, Apache 2.2. Team Lead West Caldwell, NJ November 2008 to December 2011 UHGAR  • Involved in designing software component model and authoring system requirements specification document.  • Developed the Web interfaces using JSP and HTML.  • Designed the projects using MVC architecture providing multiple views using the same model and thereby providing efficient modularity and scalability.  • Used Hibernate for creating object / relational mappings, persistence classes and Hibernate Query Language for developing query services.  • Developed many web-based features such as survey editors, search utilities and secure application forms using J2EE technologies.  • Designed and developed a utility that parses and stores the patient information. The information represented as an XML document is parsed into Java objects (using JAXB) and subsequently stored in a DB.  • Wrote ANT scripts to build and deploy projects onto the WebSphere application server. Implemented web service using Remote procedure calls (RPC).  • Create both unit and integration tests for facilitating a test driven environment. Used CVS for version control.    Technologies & Environment: Eclipse, WebSphere Application Server 6.1, Java, Struts 2.0, EJB 2.0, Hibernate, Oracle, XML, JAXB, UML, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle10g, SQL, PL/SQL, JUnit, ANT, and CVS.S Sr. Web Developer AOL - Sterling, VA September 2007 to October 2008 • Involved in writing EJB Beans. Application based on MVC Architecture using Spring & J2EE technologies.  • Involved in developing code for getting RSS Feeds from third party sites Using Mule.  • Involved in Creating Payloads/content in CMS. Designed JSP pages for the front end.  • Involved in writing build script using Maven.  • Involved in writing Soap requests to third party Site using Mule.    Technologies & Environment: Java, JSP, Spring, Struts 2.0, HTML, Mule 1.4.1, Atomics (AOL Tool), CMS (AOL tool), Linux server, JavaScript, Eclipse, MySQL, Maven, tomcat .SVN 1.5.0. J2EE/ Web Developer BEARING POINT - Washington, DC July 2006 to August 2007 • Actively participated in Requirement analysis and Design Phase of the development. Followed Rational Unified Process for the complete life cycle of the project.  • Worked with Agile Software Methodologies by rapid, continuous delivery of software. Application based on MVC Architecture using J2EE technologies.  • Used Struts, Tag Libraries, CSS, HTML, XML, XSLT, JSP, and Servlets for developing web-tier.  • Used EJB 2.0 for business flow functionality.  • WSAD 5.1 is used as an IDE and WAS 5.0 is used as application Server.  • Used SAX XML parser for XML parsing. Used JDBC connectivity for data access.  • Developed DAO's and DTO's for some parts of the application.  • Developed SSL connecting to a JSP serving as a client to another application server.    Technologies & Environment: Windows NT, J2EE, Jakarta Struts 1.1, JSP, JavaScript, WSAD 5.1, WAS 5.0, Oracle9i, Clear Case, UNIX, and Linux Education Bachelor of Technology in Engineering in Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Masters Texas A&M Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Xml, Xslt, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Jboss, jquery, Jsp, Rmi, Servlets, Jakarta, Wsad, Angularjs, Knockout, Front End, React, Angular, Front-End, UI