Consultant Consultant New York, NY User Experience Lead with extensive experience in Interaction Design, User Research, Information Architecture along with Front End Development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant Clients include Marsh Inc, American Express, Hachette Publishing, Conde Nast, Time Inc, Comixology, and CANCapital - New York, NY 2010 to Present ? Create wireframes, functional specifications, and sitemaps using Omnigraffle and Axure in collaboration with stakeholders including senior managers, visual designers, engineers, and end users  ? Manage and mentor contractors on best practices and delegate work to them  ? Design information architecture and interaction models based on user research and content libraries for mobile and desktop applications including responsive websites  ? Create prototypes with production quality javascript using AngularJS and Bootstrap.  ? Conduct research via user interviews and usability testing to validate schema and functionality  ? Devise and implement strategies to improve e-commerce sites' revenue by delivering competitive analysis, road maps, and user pain points  ? Plan and deliver new products and major enhancements  ? Design and support complex workflows, visualized large datasets  ? Streamline team work-flow by introducing Javascript libraries and SASS CSS libraries Web Designer III Fidelity National Information Services - New York, NY 2009 to 2010 ? Wire-framed screens for a financial application based on customer feedback  ? Prototyped in XHTML and CSS with cross-browser compatibility in mind  ? Developed user interface standards for interaction and layout  ? Coordinated with product development team to balance between developer constraints and timeline needs  ? Designed iconography, typography, and backgrounds standards for both the application and printed reports  using vector-based applications  ? Educate colleagues on new digital technologies and trends Lead Developer MTV Networks - New York, NY 2006 to 2007 ? Created and updated pages using Dynamo, XML, XHTML, XSL, CSS, and JavaScript  ? Wire-framed page layout and flow for new CMS to enhance user experience  ? Developed with AJAX to speed up multimedia heavy pages for faster response to user  ? Incorporated and customized flash elements in collaboration with graphics designers  ? Mentored new developers on VH1.com's proprietary systems Lead Web Developer and User Experience Engineer Standard & Poor's - New York, NY 2005 to 2005 Transformed complex, powerful, and difficult-to-use application into organized, user-centric one  ? Wire-framed screens for usability in alignment with business needs  ? Prioritized and delegated responsibilities to meet tight project deadlines  ? Provided Quality Assurance feedback to team members to meet high-quality standards  ? Mentored and guided team members in technical and personnel issues  ? Established coding standards for more efficient and manageable code  ? Organized meetings to gather user needs and requirements for the presentation layer  ? Implemented CSS-driven prototype pages compliant with both Mozilla and IE browsers  ? Determined hiring needs and interviewed candidates  ? Taught workshop to Java developers on CSS and JavaScript  ? Developed DHTML JavaScript libraries using DOM objects and CSS for interactive interfaces Education MS Business in Computer Information Systems Baruch College CUNY - New York, NY Master's Middlesex University - London BA in Government Cornell University - Ithaca, NY High school or equivalent Stuyvesant High School - New York, NY Skills JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, OBJECT-ORIENTED, VISIO, XML, User Experience, UX, Ecommerce Links http://jodychen.bitbucket.io