Software Developer Associate - Secret Clearance Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Associate - Secret Clearance Software Developer Associate - Secret Clearance - CSRA Riverdale, MD • I am a recent graduate student, who just completed my Oracle 12c studies and took my Oracle 12c Exam. I have over 11years experience as an IT Professional, which includes It Field engineering, Web development/management, and Oracle 12c internship work. Work Experience Software Developer Associate - Secret Clearance CSRA - Arlington, VA August 2017 to Present TSA ITIP    • Perform database and operating system tuning and performance monitoring.  • Maintain Oracle backup and recovery policies and procedures.  • Perform database integrity checks, performance and optimization validations, and Oracle Enterprise Management optimization.  • Working knowledge of Unix/Linux security posturing; technical working knowledge with Unix  • Committed, proactive life-long learner with a willingness to take on new assignments and learn new technologies.  • Worked with technologies that includes Windows 10, Windows 2003/2008, 2012 and 2016, and Active Directory.  • Ability to use and interpret scripts using SQL, Korn, Bash, Bourne, Batch, and C Shel  • Ability to train and mentor other team members.  • Provide guidance and clarification toward Database design and implementation  • Work as a member of a team to provide 24x7x365 support  • Create and maintain processes and standards documents.  • Perform database capacity planning. - Interface with Oracle technical support  • Researches, designs, develops, and/or modifies enterprise-wide systems and/or applications software.  • Involved in planning of system and development deployment as well as responsible for meeting software compliance standards  • Excellent communications skills, both oral and written, at all levels of the organization  • Ability to monitor application related jobs and data replication activities.  • Provide guidance and clarification toward Database design and implementation  • Perform patch management and version control within a team.  • Evaluates interface between hardware and software, operational requirements, and characteristics of overall system  • Flexibility and reliability to support a team environment, and prioritize multiple tasks.  • Committed, proactive life-long learner with a willingness to take on new assignments and learn new technologies.  • Understanding of J2EE architecture; Troubleshooting knowledge of TIBCO  • Assist with projects as may be required to contribute to efficiency and effectiveness of the work.  • Performed Builds, methodologies, and repair OPs  Intern - Oracle Database 12c DBA DBA Montgomery College - Rockville, MD August 2016 to November 2016 - OCA exposing me to a wide array of important database features, functions and tasks)    • Write subqueries, combine multiple queries via set operators, report aggregated data using group functions  • Entry level processes to performs database programming and supports systems design. Includes maintenance of database dictionaries, overall monitoring of standards and procedures, file design and storage, and integration of systems through database design.  • Oracle database, create operational databases, performance monitoring, database security.  • Establishes and enforces processes to ensure a consistent, well managed data warehouse infrastructure  • User management, and back/recovery, techniques  • Proficiency with SQL queries; Analyzes and identifies data and metadata requirements  • Design, create, and maintain database in a client/server environment  • Knowledge of Oracle: Perform database programming, Procedures, SQL Queries, Data Integrity, Pl/sql, Capacity planning  • Maintain and create Recovery Manager (RMAN), maintain and create Oracle Grid control environment  • Monitor and track disk space usage and growth Web Developer/ Web Manager (Self Employed Online Retail Store March 2013 to September 2016 • Assisted and provided support and solutions to customer queries to meet company objectives.  • Maintained, updated knowledge of company products and services to better provide customer support and services.  • Used an administration console with a user interface and help identified when WebLogic could automate system-level tasks that would otherwise have demanded programming time.  • Referenced Oracle WebLogic platform with the guidance of an Engineer to help resolved online transaction processing problems.  • Performed troubleshooting techniques over the phone or via web messenger.  • Researches and help identify firewalls, anti-virus systems, and e-mail accounts with the guidance of an Engineer as needed.  • Web Design and Development for all company products  • Offered assistance in computer software and hardware trouble shooting when needed  • Conducts quality control and auditing of databases  • Code and modify code using XML and C++ (Templates), pHp as needed.  • Provides all activities related to the administration of computerized databases  • Used the Big Commerce Platform, Big Commerce University and varies It firms. Field Engineer Sony TV, Sony IBM & Dell April 2007 to January 2015 • Knowledge of Sony TV, Sony IBM & Dell computer equipment.  • Experience in PC/Laptop, TV, Printer repair; diagnose, and resolve desktop and portable microcomputer software and hardware failures.  • Analyzes, Repair, trouble shoot computer Hardware, computer peripherals Diagnose Hardware and software issues; Install desktops, portable microcomputers, peripherals, and software products for networked, classified and unclassified, and standalone environments.  • Provide information, guidance, and instruction on use of desktop and portable microcomputer hardware and software.  • Worked with technologies that includes Windows 10, Windows 2003/2008, 2012 and 2016, and Active Directory.  • Applied Unix with shell scripting, C++ for Dell servers, modified and tested coded with guidance from Dell Engineers and supportive manuals.  • Provided technical support  • Analyze and assess customers' service request and provide prompt technical solutions  • Contact and effectively communicate with users by telephone, electronic communications, or in person.  • Interfaced with customers, vendors, and management for the purpose of communicating status of performance and troubleshoot problem areas.  • Work with program managers, staff, project and engineering managers to mitigate operational and technical risks  • Inform management in a clear, concise, and timely manner of any customer or technical issues using a corporate portal ticket and reporting system.  • Troubleshooting the problems with servers 2003, 2008, 2012, 2014, windows software operating systems, and computer hardware.  • Oversee/perform new and existing equipment, hardware, and software upgrades.  • Perform installation, configuration, maintenance, and troubleshooting of customer managed hardware, software, and peripheral devices.  • Monitor network performance and troubleshoot problem areas as needed.  • Highly self-motivated and directed, with keen attention to detail.  • Manage and maintain key partner relationships such as Cisco and Microsoft  • Manage and maintain demonstration capacities around key partners solutions Information System Manager International Development & Resources January 2002 to January 2004 • Developed and compiled reports to ensure compliance with required documentation, computations, and rules/regulations.  • Supported federal programs laws, rules, and regulations, policies and procedures  • Helped manage a comprehensive information management system, which integrated the program and business processes; accounting procedures at The Nation Institute of Health/Events Management Division.  • Process the accounting functions for NIH Events Management.  • Automated NIH's Events Management sector to Schedual software by Creating, testing, and documenting work flow processes. Helped set up and create databases and financial reports within Schedual. Education Certificate Rice University 2016 to Present Certification in Oracle Towson University February 2016 to August 2016 Bachelor of Science in Computer & Information Science University of Maryland University College September 2009 to December 2013 Master of Science in Accounting & Financial Management Computer Career Institute at John Hopkins University Additional Information Technical Skills:  • SQL Databases  • Unix    • Solaris 10-Unix  • POS hardware and software set-up, configuration and maintenance    • Dell Products/Servers, Apple Computers  • Oracle    • RDMS/Oracle 11g, 12c  • Creating tables/constraints/Sql Developer  • Microsoft SQL Server 2008, 2014, 2016    New Technology I learned to create a project and use on the job.  • MicroSoft Azure and Git Hub  • Oracle BI Reporting  • Oracle Enterprise Manager