Web Applications Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Server Administrator Holt, MI Work Experience Web Applications Developer Agate Software January 2017 to September 2017 Design, build, or maintain web sites, using authoring or scripting languages,  content creation tools, management tools, and digital media.    Maintain understanding of current web technologies or programming practices through continuing education, reading, or participation in professional  conferences, workshops, or groups.    Develop databases that support web applications and web sites.    Renew domain name registrations.    Write supporting code for web applications or web sites. Equipment Installer Dobie Computer Solutions - Grand Ledge, MI October 2013 to August 2017 Feed cables through access holes, roof spaces, and cavity walls to reach  fixture outlets; then position and terminate cables, wires and strapping.    Drill holes for cabling in wall studs, joists, ceilings, or floors.    Keep informed of new products and developments.    Mount raceways and conduits for cabling.    Provide customers with cost estimates for equipment installation. Server Administrator June 2014 to January 2017 Manage backup, security and user help systems.    Consult with users, management, vendors, and technicians to assess computing  needs and system requirements.    Meet with department heads, managers, supervisors, vendors, and others, to solicit cooperation and resolve problems.    Provide users with technical support for computer problems.    Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing  environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications  software, and all configurations.    Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.    Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.    Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications or virus protection  software.    Design, configure, and test computer hardware, networking software and operating system software.    Maintain an inventory of parts for emergency repairs.    Train people in computer system use.    Coordinate with vendors and with company personnel to facilitate purchases. Customer Support Representive ACD Telecom - Lansing, MI March 2014 to June 2014 Answer customer phone calls and emails regarding service outages and troubleshoot to resolve customer outages. Education High School Diploma Holt High School - Holt, MI May 2004 Skills Active Directory (3 years), Coldfusion (3 years), CSS (4 years), DNS (3 years), Exchange (3 years), Vmware, System Administrator, Veeam Additional Information Windows 7/10    Windows Server 2008/2012/2016    Centos 6/7    Ubuntu 14/16    Microsoft SQL Management Studio    Linux MySQL    VMWare 6.0    DNS (BIND)    Basic Network IP Subnetting    Adobe Coldfusion 13    HTML    CSS    Javascript/JQuery/GoogleMapsAPI    Microsoft Exchange/Active Directory