Web Developer II/Mobile Engineer (remote) <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> II/Mobile Engineer (remote) Web Developer II/Mobile Engineer - AECOM Seattle, WA Web and mobile application developer with front and back end experience. Most recently working with HTML/CSS/JavaScript, Bootstrap, KnockoutJS, and Java. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer II/Mobile Engineer (remote) AECOM - Tallahassee, FL June 2014 to Present • Developed electronic forms for the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) StateWide Environmental Project Tracker (SWEPT) project that enabled real-time management of construction project documents.  • Converted the Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) Transportation Investment Act (TIP) site from ASP site to C# so that site is easier to maintain and is more secure.  • Created dynamically generating photo galleries for GDOT's TIP site using the Flickr API that reduced image publishing workflow steps and standardized user experience.  • Modernized Regional Offshore Sand Source Inventory website to use Bootstrap and ArcGIS API that allowed for faster site performance and site development. Mobile Application Developer University of Georgia - Athens, GA February 2012 to June 2014 • Developed Native Plants of North Georgia (iOS, Android) where users can browse, sort, and search for plants as well as add notifications, calendar reminders for bloom times, and share plants on social media.  • Built Service Forester's Toolkit (iOS) where foresters can calculate the site index for multiple tree species, make other common calculations, and look up frequently used research.  • Led multiple quality assurance (QA) rounds with co-workers and external users by writing test plans, provisioning devices, and distributing ad-hoc app files that ensured data accuracy and device support. Web Software Developer Intuit/Digital Insight - Athens, GA December 2004 to February 2012 • Published content to websites that ensured bank and credit union customers were up to date on rate changes, bank operational status, and other financial information.  • Ensured website changes followed security standards and disclosure compliance.  • Tested and implemented office-wide process improvements for time-sensitive work and disclosures, reducing errors and the number of requests that go late. Education Master's in Internet Technology University of Georgia - Athens, GA May 2011 Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Georgia - Athens, GA December 2005 Skills Android (2 years), Bootstrap (4 years), C# (1 year), JavaScript (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Objective-C (2 years), Java (4 years), JQuery (8 years), HTML 5, CSS3 Additional Information SKILLS  Primary Languages/Libraries  CSS3, HTML5, Java (Android), JavaScript, jQuery, Objective-C (iOS)    Secondary Languages/Libraries  ArcGIS API for JavaScript, ArcObjects, Bootstrap, C#, Flickr API/FlickrNet, Java (Hibernate, Velocity), Knockout, SQL, XML/XSL    Business Software  Eclipse/MyEclipse, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint), Visual Studio, Xcode