Senior Database Developer Senior Database <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Database Developer - Intel Corporation Sunnyvale, CA Work Experience Senior Database Developer Intel Corporation February 2016 to May 2019 Deal Management Application- Technical lead for an internal web application supporting over 500 users to define terms for front-end and back-end rebates.  • Enforced complex business rules and legal requirements to ensure purchase price with rebates don't fall below cost to prevent anti-trust and multi-million-dollar litigations.  • Co-ordinated with upstream and downstream applications to ensure requirements are implemented and dependencies among data and technologies are understood and implemented correctly.  • Designed SQL database tables along with general infrastructure to support transactional and reporting solutions including infrastructure objects to support general application capability (e.g. error logging, performance monitoring).  • Created scalable and re-useable SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, and Views to implement multifaceted legal and business requirements to reduce the time to market. Change Control Technical Lead Intel Corporation March 2015 to May 2019 Provided guidance for database requests for the entire Market to Revenue common application database that supported over a dozen applications responsible for over $20 billion in information.  • Reviewed request for new or modified tables to certify structures were robust and complied to standards.  • Ensured the database health of the Market to Revenue database by identifying long running or resource intensive queries and removing or archiving unused objects. Technical Lead Developer Intel Corporation August 2014 to February 2016 Internal web application supporting multiple types of credit and cash payment approval processes while maintain stringent process and data audit requirements.  • Designed data structures to import master data from source systems and developed a scalable application that enabled the expansion of data and/or users with minimum code or performance impact.  • Provided estimates for database, UI and sever-side object's development cycle to be incorporated into a project plan.  • Built C# libraries to create and export multi-million-dollar payment files to be processed by Accounts Payable source systems.  • Assigned tasks and reviewed code of the entire development team including SQL, C# and Kendo UI objects. Technical Lead Developer Intel Corporation August 2011 to August 2015 Internal windows application that accrues over 5 billion dollars annually in customer rebates by processing customer's invoices to determine if they are eligible for rebates and calculate the appropriate rebate amount.  • Analyzed and implemented multiple performance tuning techniques to improve slow or resource intensive queries that have improved the application's performance by over 50 percent.  • Oversaw a team of 20 business and technical stakeholders, assigned tasks, and performed code review for new database enhancements.  • Created data structures and design to support application and environment changes. Senior Database Developer Intel Corporation June 2008 to August 2011 Reporting Solution- Internal facing reporting solution used to analyze the impact of rebates against revenue to be reported in quarterly stock announcements and provide analysis to determine the return on investment for various rebate strategies.  • Analyzed source data and designed database structures to track changes over time and identify market trends.  • Coded and developed SQL Stored Procedures used to support the process of credits against invoices spanning hundreds of millions of records for both historical and future looking impact to the Average Selling Price of a product. Web Developer Intel Corporation April 2000 to June 2008 Marketing Developer Fund Application- Marketing web application supporting over 900 internal and external users that reimbursed over two billion dollars to customer's advertisement cost that promoted Intel products and met appropriate T&C's to enhance Intel's brand awareness.  • Programmed an internal and externally facing web application using a 3-tiered architecture utilizing ASP.NET (JavaScript and VBScript), Visual Basic, and SQL Oracle environment.  • Owned two mission critical aspects of a Marketing Development Fund application used for enforcing Terms and Conditions and for payment submission and data analysis to reimburse customers and determine possible fraud.  • Created VBA macros and develop excel templates to upload data using web services and flat files into an Oracle database significantly reducing data entry time by 80 percent. Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science Ohio University - Athens, OH Skills C#, SQL, Database Development, Database Management, Oracle, Visual Basic for Applications (Excel), Excel, Data Analysis Links http://linkedin.com/in/doug-l-chapman