Sr. Python Developer Sr. Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer Boston, MA • More than 10+ of experience in Web Application Development & Designing.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) Programming.  • Experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts in Java and Python  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Vast experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including JDBC, Spring, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Hibernate.  • Expertise in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, JDBC, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  • Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  • Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  • Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using REST, SOAP, WSDL  • Hands on UML compliant high level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer.  • Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Cardinal Health Inc - Dublin, OH September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM,  • Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked on several python packages  • Used ECMAScript 6, ReactJS, Flux, Babel, Node and Web-Pack to create a SPA.  • Worked with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.JS, EXT.JS, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, Ember.JS, bootstrap.JS, Require .JS, D3.JS, etc.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Stored the data in an Apache Cassandra Cluster Used Impala to query the Hadoop data stored in HDFS.  • Developed custom consumers and producers for Apache Kafka in Go (golang) for cars monitoring system.  • Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes.  • Created real-time dashboard for Executives, utilizing Logstash, Elastic Search, Kibana & Redis.  • Created sites to organize client contracts and to summarize monthly financial data using Ember.js, D3.js and MySql.  • Created the Application using React.JS and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  • Used scala scripts for spark machine learning libraries API execution for decision trees, ALS, logistic and linear regressions algorithms.  • Designed the real-time analytics and ingestion platform using Storm and Kafka. Wrote Storm topology to accept the events from Kafka producer and emit into Cassandra DB.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, d3.js, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and Eclipse as Text Editor  • Implemented Restful web service to interact with Redis Cache framework.  • Worked on developing Restful endpoints to cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like REDIS and also exposed them with Restful endpoints.  • Worked with NoSql Databases like Apache Cassandra, Mongo DB.  • Building a Command line tool to interact with RESTful API using in Golang.  • Designed SPA (Single page applications) in Flux architecture using React.js.  • Implemented AWS solutions using DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Wrote scala and python scripts as required for spark engine.  • Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  • Developed a Spark job in Java which indexes data into ElasticSearch from external Hive tables which are in HDFS.  • Developed code in Java which creates mapping in ElasticSearch even before data is indexed into.  • Worked on developing CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, ReactJS and NodeJS) and REST based API.  • Validated BI Support events, transformed and batched events which are sent to HNM and Kafka by triggering these events using Kafka, Mesos.  • Worked on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Developed front-end using Html, CSS, Javascript, React, Redux, Bootstrap.  • Developed new Widget-app module for MMD 2.0 using React.js with Redux architecture and ES6.  • Implemented mapStateToProps, mapDispatchToProps for the interactions between Redux and React.  • Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  • Used Python to pull Docker images of analysis tools from Docker hub and containerizing those tools.  • Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  • Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angularjs, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  • Extensively worked on Application servers like Weblogic and Apache Tomcat.  • Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT    Environment - Python, Django,HTML, CSS, XML, Scala, JavaScript, redux, Angular.js, Docker, AJAX, Kubernetes, React.JS, Redis, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, flux, AWS, Elasticsearch, Kafka, Spark, Java, Oracle, Golang, Mesos, PL/SQL, Cassandra, MS-Sql, JDBC, Maven, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, Subversion (SVN), C++, Linux Sr. Python Developer IBM - Armonk, NY August 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and PHP.  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts.  • To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  • Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using Python scripts.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as Jython  • Constructed powerful and modern frontend architecture, involving React, Redux, and ES6.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Creating new MEAN / MERN stack React applications.  • Used GoLang to create backend servers.  • Developed a front-end application using React JS and FLUX architecture for internal team's productivity use.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Extracted data from PostgreSQL, Cassandra, Redis, Influx dB and Elastic Search.  • Designed and built flexible, innovative web-based data visualizations, working with D3.js.  • Built data visualizations to monitor file server load, web server speeds, data processing and more using d3, backbone, jquery, mysql.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python library.  • Used Cassandra for database and Redis for cache, for storing and fetching the data.  • Used Redis Cache for high performance, which creates space for new data by removing old data.  • Developed Ruby on Rails web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django  • Loaded the log data and data from UI apps into Hadoop lake using Apache Kafka service.  • Developed rating and sharing single page application by using Angular.JS, Bootstrap, Ember.js and React JS.  • Created responsive graphs using D3.js and CSS  • Involved in creating a reusable component using React JS and Redux JS for DOM Manipulation.  • Developed backup and recovery engine using VMware, GoLang programming language  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Worked with search business and search team to implement dynamic rule updates to search using elasticsearch.  • Analysis the logs data and filter required columns by logstash configuration and send it to elasticsearch.  • Used micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting of REST and Kafka.  • Developed Kafka producer and consumers, HBase clients, Spark, shark, Streams and Hadoop MapReduce jobs along with components on HDFS, Hive.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used R for prototype on a sample data exploration to identify the best algorithimic approach and then Wrote scala scripts using spark machine learning module.  • Worked on ElementTree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Build back-end application with Python / Django, Worked on Dockers, RabbitMQ, Celery, and Jenkins.  • Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jerkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Designed and implemented Python, Scala, C++, Tcl and Windows Service components for a line card port utilization tracking system.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  • Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  • Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  • Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT  • Writing JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional qualityDeveloped framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies    Environment - Python, Django,HTML, CSS, XML, Scala, React.JS, Kubernetes, redux, Mesos, Docker, JavaScript, Node.js, Redis, JSON, Cassandra, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, d3, Java, Elasticsearch, DB2, flux, Kafka, Spark, Golang, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, Apache CXF, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum, C++, Maven. Python Developer Dole Food Company, INC - Westlake Village, CA March 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • sed Python & Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange & business logic implementation between servers.  • Worked on development of backend services using Python, SQL and Linux. Created many API's for Iscrum project which involves creating and maintaining projects in an organization. and developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL.  • Involved in developing a video calling application using python web-sockets.  • Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency.  • Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  • Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  • Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS  • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI  • Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  • Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, Angularjs, JQuery and REST Services  • Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  • Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other javascript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  • Prepared statements are used for communication Sql database  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  Environment - Python, Django, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. Web Developer American Express - New York, NY January 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Made the application responsive using Bootstrap.  • Involved in web designing using HTML , CSS, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • After making the applications to be responsive, worked on different mobile devices bugs (like ios and android).  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Jquery.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Used Adobe Experience manager for building websites, mobile apps and forms.  • Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface    Environment: HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos Software Developer TCS - IN November 2007 to December 2009 Responsibilities:  • Worked on various UI technologies like JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP tag libraries.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Made the web pages Responsive using JQuery UI and bootstrap, which can be operated in both PC's and Mobiles.  • Used advanced JavaScript concepts to validate input fields using regular expression.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with Responsive Web Design (RWD) to support the web page in Mobile browser as well.  • Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  • Used Bootstrap along with CSS to design web-pages by HTML.  • Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Used Jenkins as continuous integration tool for building archive files and snapshots for all applications.  • Worked on DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Added analytics and tagging functionality for all the existing pages to track all the user actions using JavaScript.  • Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  • Tested the application under Scrum (Agile) Methodology.  • Created Test strategy, Test plan, execution plan and Identified test data requirements.  • Worked on major bug fixes, which included UI issues and functionality issues as well    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, AEM, PLSQL, Oracle, Windows Education Bachelor's