Assistant Manager Assistant Manager Cypress, TX To seek a career in a field where my skills and educational background are best put to use to reach a common goal as a team. Work Experience Assistant Manager Midwest Hospitality 2012 to Present As an assistant manager for Church's Chicken my duties included scheduling among all employees, Quality control, Inventory management, Payroll management, and assisting General manager in overseeing day to day operations of employees to ensure that the daily task/service levels are being met. In addition, I trained and mentored new and seasoned employees in attaining common goals as a team. Learned very quickly how to delegate customer service issues while striving to achieve excellence in customer satisfaction. Logistics Manager, Web Developer, Electronics Technician Prattigan Technology Group Inc 2008 to 2012 TVParts4Sale, 2008-2012 Logistics Manager, Web Developer, Electronics Technician As a multitalented employee for Prattigan Technology Group Inc. my duties included managing incoming and outgoing parts for televisions. I oversaw shipping and receiving issues as they arise and routed delivery drivers to reduce down time and increase efficiency. I Built and maintained the online store for retail and wholesale buyers. In addition, I assisted with inbound sales and customer service by providing excellent sales skills, rapport, and follow up with retail and wholesale accounts. Shift Manager Taco Bell/KFC 2006 to 2009 I started as an employee and worked my way into a shift manager position in a year. As the shift manager my services consisted of overseeing employees tasks and duties were in coordination with the guidelines of the company. Assisted in streamlining the production line by increasing production flow by lowering "to go" order times down by 30% from when I originally started. In addition, my other duties included assisting upper management in overseeing scheduling, inventory control, and striving to achieve optimum customer service levels through customer driven surveys. Education Computer Engineering West Georgia Tech - Douglasville, GA Douglas County High School Additional Information KEY STRENGTHS  * Strong combination of interpersonal and customer relations skills  * Quick learner and able to adapt to any situation  * Enjoy working in a team environment    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Platform: Windows XP Professional, Vista, Windows 7, Windows 2000, NT 4.0 Workstation, Windows 98, Windows 95 and DOS.    Software: All MS Office, Outlook, Front Page, Lotus Notes, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, Netscape, Sony Vegas, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Premier, Illustrator, Flash, Fireworks, XSplit, Joomla, Magento, Cubecart, Wordpress.