BAY IT SUPPORT SOLUTIONS BAY IT SUPPORT SOLUTIONS Hayward, CA 8+ years of previous experience troubleshooting in IT support, network administrator, desktop support, environment (Active Directory Management and Implementation, Windows Server Network Services , Troubleshooting , Administration, ,imaging and Deploying (SCCM), Remote monitoring and management (Solarwinds RMM) Microsoft Azure Active Directory, Administration for cloud - Based Office 365, and enterprise-level mobile device management with Intune, Audit server utilization and licenses consumption, • Backing up and restoring Mac OS X and windows, troubleshooting Mac OS X and windows, configuring storage sense, creating storage spaces, configuring Migrating Salesforce , Dynamics 365 ,Create tacket helpdesk manage and solved issues users and groups and configure the queues, notifications and other critical settings, troubleshooting Network and Security , L2 technologies-VLANs/VLAN tagging, VTP, Spanning Tree, Etherchannel, portchannel, Gigabit/10Gigabit switched networks, L3 technologies-IP Sub-netting, IP routing, OSPF, VRRP, HSRP, VRF, Network protocols, including TCP/IP , OSPF, IPSec, VRRP, HSRP, TCP/IP and various Internet Protocols DNS, NAT, IPSec, HTTP/HTTPS, SSH, SSL, SNMP, NFS, IPv4, IPv6, Digital Certificates and SNMP.,VPN ,ASA Firewall ,CUCM ,NX OS , Network Media (WANs), Cloud Computing, data center virtualization: Virtualization vSphere , v-Center , Hyper-V Server , Administration Google AdWords, Automation( Ansible ,Python NAPALM), Agile and Develoment (Java , C#, C++ ,Data Strucure and Algorithms ) scripting ( Bash shell , PowerShell ,SQL and SDN, Open Flow Administration Mojo Helpdesk and more ) , Micosoft SQL Server , Pster SQL, API's , Work Experience BAY IT SUPPORT SOLUTIONS September 2014 to Present Responsibilities  • Serve as a point of escalation and troubleshoot infrastructure issues, and work with associated vendors/partners to drive towards resolution.  • support for infrastructure  • Deploy new servers into the environment, manage server configurations and update as necessary  • Performs backups and maintenance of infrastructure systems  • Maintain standards-based software deployment for all Collaboration Systems  • Audit server utilization and licenses consumption, recommend and execute upgrades as  • Adding domain users and accounts to a Mac OS X and windows pc, managing Mac OS X and windows firewall. • Backing up and restoring Mac OS X and windows, troubleshooting Mac OS X and windows, Migrating from Salesforce to Dynamics 365 configuring storage sense, creating storage spaces, configuring one drive.  • Create tacket helpdesk manage and solved issues users and groups and configure the queues, notifications and other critical settings  • Responsibilities Create an environment oriented to trust, open communication identify, manage, escalation and resolve technical issues.  • • Active directory management, dynamic ip addressing through the dynamic host, configuration protocol (dhcp), installation dhcp, configuring scopes, managing the dhcp database, managing the dhcp server, providing dhcp ip addresses in a routed environment. dhcp failover. • Working with vpn, bridges and switches, ensuring hardware redundancy.  • Working with the domain name system (dns) and domain controllers in windows server: •Creating dns zones, maintaining, monitoring, troubleshooting dns and monitor wireshark for network performance.  • DNS socket pools, domain name system security extensions (dnssec), global names, cashed locking, network policy server (nps).  • Implement and support voip telephony systems including protocols such as sip, h.323, ftp, sftp, smtp, http, dhcp, qos.  • Troubleshooting, administration, networking and security, deploy windows (xp, vista, 7, 8 & 10)imaging and deploying windows with toolkit 2013, microsoft deployment toolkit (mdt) windows deployment services at medium-sized organizations. as well as the upgrade paths from windows 8/8.1 and older version, installing, working with windows group policy.  • Adding domain users and accounts to a windows pc, managing windows firewall. • Backing up and restoring windows, troubleshooting windows, configuring storage sense, creating storage spaces, configuring onedrive.  • Configuration of the routers, switches, voip servers, firewall and protocols such as sip, ftp, sftp, http.  • Use network and diagnostic tools such as trace route, ping, dig for issue identification and removal.  • Desktop and laptop repair, hard drive imaging software, asset management, inventory management software, computer security principles, anti-virus software, vpn software, setting up ntfs permissions, configuring disk quotas, configuring folder options auditing files. setting up file sharing:  • Microsoft azure active directory. Creating an azure ad directory, managing users and groups, enabling azure ad authentication Running active directory reports.  • Administration for cloud - based office 365. • Creating office 365 user accounts, adding domains, configuring outlook and skype, configuring sharing and shared mailboxes, troubleshooting an office 365 deployment, administration mac os x  • Installing and configuring el capitan. protecting user data, performing a partial or full-system recover with time machine, installing applications, managing application preferences, monitoring the system, configuring security, networking.  • Directory binding, troubleshooting problems, understanding spotlight problems and how to fix them, collecting system information.  • Administration mojo helpdesk manage users and groups and configure the queues, notifications and other critical settings in mojo helpdesk. tickets are submitted, routed, updated and resolved. reduce incoming requests for support. • Identify, manage, escalation and resolve technical issues.  • Install and configure software print drives, utilized on workstation and computer network. Implement manage and maintain hardware and network solution to conduct client with over 100 and control creating and managing organization units (ous), creating and managing user objects, creating and managing computer accounts , dynamic ip addressing through the dynamic host , configuration protocol (dhcp) , configuring scopes , managing the dhcp database, managing the dhcp server , providing dhcp ip addresses in a routed environment. different types of network cables like office computer network servers to workstation identify, manage, escalation and resolve technical issues. • Install and configure software print drives, utilized on workstation and computer network. I.T Suport and web developer Bay Transpotration 2010 to 2014 • Create an environment oriented to trust, open communication identify, manage, escalation and resolve technical issues.  • Active directory management, dynamic ip addressing through the dynamic host, configuration protocol (dhcp), installation dhcp, configuring scopes, managing the dhcp database, managing the dhcp server, providing dhcp ip addresses in a routed environment. dhcp failover.  • Working with vpn, bridges and switches, ensuring hardware redundancy.  • Working with the domain name system (dns) and domain controllers in windows server:  • Desktop and laptop repair, hard drive imaging software, asset management, inventory management software, computer security principles, anti-virus software, vpn software, setting up ntfs permissions, configuring disk quotas, configuring folder options auditing files. setting up file sharing  Creating dns zones, maintaining, monitoring, troubleshooting dns and monitor wireshark for network  • Creating and mounting website (HTML and CSS)  • Understanding quality score and the auction system ,setting realistic expectations, adwords campaigns ,creating an adwords account ,researching keywords with the keyword planner tool ,setting campaign budgets and bidding ,writing great ad headlines and copy ,using ad groups Golden State Overnight - San Jose, CA 2008 to 2010 Responsibilities  • Identify, manage, escalation and resolve technical issues.  • Install and configure software print drives, utilized on workstation and computer network. Education Master of science in Engineering Arizona State University 2017 to 2020 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Kabul University 2004 to 2007 Skills Active directory, Ccna, Cisco, Data center, Dns Additional Information SKILLS    Programming    • programming skills in HTML, JavaScript Utilize development areas including object oriented programming (C++ ,C# , JAVA ), databases (SQL), Model, View, Controller (MVC), and web applications (ASP.NET)experience in enterprise web site development and writing web applications Proficient in troubleshooting, maintaining, and debugging complex applications Position firm in web development and general programming processes including analysis, design, and implementation. knowledge of development tools and environments, testing tools and environments, algorithms, data structures, and object-oriented principles ,Experience with version control, branch management, IIS, and other web infrastructure technologies.    System Communication, Networking and Security    • Bit Sequences , Discrete Time Channel , Data Communiocation Protocols , Chanel model, Noise, Bit Errors , Channel Coding , Bit Codes ,Lossless Source Coding (Huffman Codes) , Freguencey Domain , Filter and the Freuency Response , Discrete Fourier Tranform , Signal Transmission , networking in CCNA level such as (Switch Operation Layer 2 Switch Multilayer Switch ,Managing Switch Tales, Switch port Configuration (Ethernet concepts Managing Error Discovering connected Devices Using Power Over Ethernet ) VLANs and Trunks (Virtual VLANs , VLAN Trunk , Voice VLANs , Wireless VLANS VTP,STP, aggregating Links,Multilayer Switching ,DHCP,DHCP Snooping , SNMP,IPSLA,SPAN, HSRP and Securing a Switch , Hands-on 2 years of experience in networking in CCNA level such as(,LAN, WAN, TCP/IP (IPV4and IP v6), Migrate a network , Remote Connectivity, MPLS ,VRF,DMVPN IPsec, EIGRP on Cisco Routers, Named EIGRP ,Advanced OSPF Redistribution, Route Selection. TCP/IP and various Internet Protocols DNS, NAT, IPSec, HTTP/HTTPS, SSH, SSL, SNMP, NFS, IPv4, IPv6, Digital Certificates    Network Media (WANs)    • Understanding the technology: from dial-up to vpns , working with hubs, bridges, and switches , ensuring hardware redundancy  • Using switching types and mac tables, preventing bridge loops with stp, routing with routing tables , using nat , securing your switches and routers , setting up firewalls    Active Directory Management and Implementation    • Active director domain services(ad ds) creating and maintaining ad ds objects creating and managing organization units (ous), creating and managing user objects, creating and managing computer accounts ,  • Active directory and group policy working with managed service account , maintaining the active directory (ad) database, creating and creating ad sites and site link ,global catalog servers and universal group caching ,replication ,sit link bridging, tools used to manage replication  Windows Server Network Services    • Dynamic ip addressing through the dynamic host , configuration protocol (dhcp) ,installation dhcp, configuring scopes , managing the dhcp database, managing the dhcp server , providing dhcp ip addresses in a routed environment. dhcp failover , working with the domain name system (dns)and domain controllers in windows server  • Creating dns zones, maintaining, monitoring , and troubleshooting dns ,  • Advanced dns concepts dns socket pools , domain name system security extensions (dnssec) , global names , cashed locking ,network policy server (nps) network access service policy. network access services(nap) nap troubleshooting, installation and configuration    Troubleshooting , Administration, ,imaging and Deploying (SCCM)    • Networking ,Security ,imaging and Deploying Windows (XP, vista ,7,8&10)  • Installing , working with windows group policy. adding domain users and accounts to a windows pc  • deploying windows with toolkit 2013, microsoft deployment toolkit (MDT)(SCCM)the upgrade paths from windows 8/8.1 and older version  • Administering bitlocker and efs , understanding the boot process , installing client hyper-v for windows virtualization , managing windows firewall  • Backing up and restoring windows , troubleshooting windows, configuring storage sense, creating storage spaces, configuring onedrive  • Setting up ntfs permissions , implementing multifactor authentication, encrypting data , configuring disk quotas , configuring folder options auditing files , ,setting up file sharing  • Remote monitoring and management (Solarwinds RMM)  Microsoft Azure Active Directory ,  • Creating an azure ad directory ,managing users and groups ,enabling active directory self-service ,implementing azure ad authentication ,running active directory reports    Administration for cloud - Based Office 365    • Office 365, and enterprise-level mobile device management with Intune Creating office 365 user accounts, adding domains, configuring outlook and skype, configuring sharing and shared mailboxes, troubleshooting an office 365 deployment, configuring powershell, creating sharepoint service, MS Word, Excel, Power Point and Outlook    Administration Mac OS X    • Installing and configuring el capitan. protecting user data , performing a partial or full-system recover with time machine , installing applications , managing application preferences, monitoring the system , configuring security , networking. directory binding  • Troubleshooting problems , understanding spotlight problems and how to fix them , collecting system information    Cloud Computing  • Virtualizing computer desktops ,designing a private cloud ,choosing the best virtualization solution for you ,creating a virtual machine with hyper-v and vmware workstation ,configuring your network for virtualization ,backing up, restoring, and migrating virtual machines  data center virtualization: Virtualization vSphere , v-Center , Hyper-V Server    Hands-on years of experience Virtualization , ESXI and v-Center Deploy and Auto deploy (create that custom depot , deploy images with Auto Deploy ) Consolidate a Data Center , Configure and Manage Network configuration and administration Storage administer (ISCSI, VMFS, NFS, Software-driven solution such as VSAN and Virtual Volumes ,maintain V-Cloud Air deploy v-Apps configure and administer Security , Networking , Configure and Manage VDS Manage Resources, network Troubleshoot a Deployment , Back up and recover configure High Availability Features ,Configure Advanced DRS Features ,Upgrade a Deployment Virtualizing computer desktops ,designing a private cloud ,choosing the best.  Administration Google AdWords    • Understanding quality score and the auction system ,setting realistic expectations, adwords campaigns ,creating an adwords account ,researching keywords with the keyword planner tool ,setting campaign budgets and bidding ,writing great ad headlines and copy ,using ad groups  Administration Mojo Helpdesk    • Manage users and groups and configure the queues, notifications, and other critical settings in mojo helpdesk. Tickets are submitted, routed, updated, and resolved. reduce incoming requests for support.