Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Pacific Communications Irvine, CA Work Experience Developer Pacific Communications - Irvine, CA December 2018 to Present Skills: jQuery, MongoDB, Node.js, dataTables.net, amCharts, faker.js, moment.js, Express.js, AWS  ? Successfully developed a prototype site and integrated it with Webflow and Zapier to mimic a live site for a major pharmaceutical company.  ? Developed internal and external emails compatible to various email clients.  ? Created web applications to automate tasks for clients such as plotting icons on map for visited cities and creating fake patient data. Owner Blue Diamond Partners - Irvine, CA June 2018 to Present Currently selling men's accessories online.  ? Setup a Shopify store and sales are mostly from Facebook and Google ads.  ? Provide customer support on a daily basis.  ? Handling all the logistics of orders. Full-stack JavaScript Developer Avik Partners - San Clemente, CA December 2016 to May 2018 Skills: jQuery, JavaScript, MongoDB, Express.js, Angular, Node.js, Bootstrap, AWS, Shopify  ? Customized a Shopify site that displays a preview of customized books. https://my.storymakery.com/  ? Frequently making improvements to the retail business website. http://www.storymakery.com  ? Added new features such as hard book creation using PhantomJS.  ? Successfully developed reservation pages with AngularJS.  ? Created multiple landing pages within a very tight schedule.  ? Debugged and fixed issues posting data to third party APIs. (Dropbox and Shopify)  ? Utilized Adobe Photoshop & Illustrator to create and edit majority of the assets for the websites. Full-stack JavaScript Developer Omniplatform - Irvine, CA September 2016 to October 2016 Skills: Backbone.js, jQuery, JavaScript, Mustache, Less  ? Redesigned layout and revised patient scheduling process.  ? Successfully resolved several issues occurring on patient scheduling portal. Student Orange County Code School - Newport Beach, CA May 2016 to August 2016 Videofive: A site for video chat, video recording and uploading videos.  Skills: JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular, Node.js, Express.js, MongoDB, Mocha, Chai, Gulp, Git  ? Utilized webRTC library to create chat rooms and peer-to-peer video chat.  ? Built backend REST API with Node.js, Express.js  ? Entire site using Bootstrap and AngularJS.  ? Setup MongoDB to store user login, registration and chat room names.  Streamers: A site that records video from your webcam. Live Demo:https://streamers.herokuapp.com/  Skills: JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Node.js, Express.js, Git  ? Video recording strictly uses HTML5 Video and Canvas.  ? Built backend REST API with Node.js, Express.js  ? Utilized Navigator, MediaRecorder, FileReader and Blob built-in Web API's.  ? Recorded videos can be stored on the backend server.  Amazon Clone: An Amazon clone site. Live Demo:http://tomazon.herokuapp.com/  Skills: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Git  ? Wireframe the layout with Balsamiq  ? Replicated Amazon's website with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  ? Review stars were implemented with CSS sprites.  ? Bootstrap carousel is created dynamically based on purchased products. illustrator, Fireworks and InDesign Celestial Lighting - Santa Fe Springs, CA January 2013 to May 2016 Santa Fe Springs, CA January 2013 - May 2016  Design & Development  ? Successfully upgraded company website from Joomla to Wordpress.  ? Setup SSL and enabled login/registration features to the site with custom fields for registration.  ? Modified CSS for a responsive layout.  ? Edited and created product photos and specification sheets with Adobe Photoshop, illustrator, Fireworks and InDesign. Developer & Translator 2Advanced Studios - Aliso Viejo, CA April 2011 to December 2012 Acted as technical liaison for Japanese game developers.  ? Translated technical emails and documents both in English and Japanese. Web Developer Gamepot USA, Inc - El Segundo, CA December 2008 to March 2011 Developed an entire game tool using ASP.NET/C#, PostgreSQL, MySQL and SQL Server for an MMORPG game.  ? Created game related web pages such as inviting friends, beta bug reports and item code give out.  ? Built windows utility to filter specific IP addresses based on IP numbers.  ? Created various SQL Server stored procedures and T-SQL script to provide game data to Marketing. Education Orange County Code School May 2016 to August 2016 Master of Science in Information Systems Management in Information Systems Management Keller Graduate School of Management September 2009 Bachelor of Science in Telecommunications Management in Telecommunications Management DeVry University February 1998 Skills HTML, Javascript, Linux, jQuery, SQL Links https://github.com/tcomtom Certifications/Licenses Driver's License