Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Developer - LONGWOOD SOFTWARE Maynard, MA I am an experienced software engineer seeking a web developer opportunity where I can use my expertise in Microsoft  technologies. I have close to 20 years of web development experience and specialize in Classic ASP, along with .Net  work, as well as extensive front-end development, utilizing technologies such as HTML(5), JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX,  etc. In addition, I have expertise in back-end programming, utilizing numerous database platforms such as Sql Server,  MySql, Oracle, and MS Access. My exceptional communication skills and the ability to quickly grasp and adapt to new  concepts, technologies, and environments, have allowed me to thrive in every position I have had. Work Experience Senior Web Developer LONGWOOD SOFTWARE - Maynard, MA December 2014 to Present Owned, maintained, and enhanced primary application, RevBase, a marketing-based asset management system.  Involved in all aspects of development life cycle - requirements gathering to wire-framing concepts to development to QA testing to release of code. Responsible for architecting / implementing / testing all database  changes. Developed and implemented code repository policies using GitHub. Architected and developed  numerous web services (using .NET C#) to interface with our customers data and application. Assisted in IT  Operations / Support whenever needed Senior Web Developer PHILIPS COLOR KINETICS DIVISION - Burlington, MA November 2012 to November 2014 Developed, supported, and enhanced two internal product/job inventory management website and one customer facing job  request websites using Microsoft Classic ASP technologies. Responsibilities included bug fixes, feature enhancements, design fixes, UIX enhancements, code optimization, database management, as well as international user support.  Co-ordinated meetings with numerous clients from around the world to discuss support issues. Introduced and implemented development and code rmanagement procedures. IT Specialist - Web Application Developer U.S. Department of Agriculture - Riverdale, MD February 2011 to September 2012 Designed, developed, and administered Sharepoint sites for use by the department using Designer and InfoPath. Team  lead for migrating data from Domino environments to SharePoint using third party tools. Responsible for training and documenting others to migrate data, as well as setting up migration environment. Designed, developed, and supported  custom InfoPath forms making use of SOAP web services. Developed and supported Lotus Notes custom applications.  Researched and documented information on building enterprise level SharePoint farms, as well as the differences between Domino and Sharepoint environments. Web Application Developer TechTarget - Newton, MA June 2006 to December 2010 Designed, supported, and maintained 2020 website and family of TechnologyGuide websites using ASP, ASP .NET, and Java. Developed database structures for use with websites. Responsible for entire product development life cycle, from  early on planning stages to implementing and coding application specifications. Applied bug fixes, database changes, and code updates to production environment. Performed several SEO changes across all websites. Developed several new  features and applications to be used within websites, including bug reporting tool, product search interface using AJAX, Google chart interface, and implemented URL re-writing techniques to allow for better SEO results. Developed  administrator and front end interfaces that allowed for videos to be uploaded and displayed on websites using BrightCove. IT Manager / Web Developer WorkTechnology, Inc - Somerville, MA July 2001 to May 2006 Designed and developed several multi-tier applications, using Oracle and Microsoft technologies. Led a team of 3  engineers to support company IT needs. Responsibilities included PC / laptop administration, network administration, database administration, set up and maintaining secure company FTP site, Windows support, MS Exchange support  (Active Directory), VPN administration, and recommending and ordering software and hardware products needed for company employees. Served as head webmaster for company website. Wrote internal and external technical guides for  employees and customers. Performed quality assurance work for internal applications. Technical Support Representative FastChannel Network, Inc - Belmont, MA January 2000 to March 2000 June 2001 - March 2001  Provided telephone support to new clients installing company software. Assisted Network Administrator by creating  accounts for potential clients. Fielded and troubleshot incoming calls from clients, shared 24-hour on-call responsibilities, trained two-thirds of support department, and served as IT Support Technician. Technical Support Representative Raytheon Company - Lexington, MA December 1997 to March 1998 June 1998 - December 1998  Led Level I support by responding to or dispatching help to all incoming support calls. Facilitated site upgrade of new  desktops/laptops. Responsible for computer support and network maintenance. Trained and guided new Technical  Support Representatives. Covered help line desk when needed. Served as temporary support technician at remote office. Education Bachelor of Computer Technology in Computer Technology Northeastern University - Boston, MA June 2001 Skills Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Ajax, Javascript, NET