Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - State Farm Insurance Bloomington, IL • Skilled and experienced UI developer with over 11+ years in developing responsive and cross platform front-end web application.  • Strong experience in using debugging tool like Firebug, Chrome Developer tool and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Have a good experience in using JIRA Tool for Bug Tracking.  • Experienced with Wireframes for developing the layout and functionality on a page.  • Good Understanding of Browser Object Model (BOM), Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions  • Experience in fixing cross browsing compatibility issues and web application scaling.  • Experience in using Spring Boot and Spring frameworks including Spring core /IOC, Spring Web, Spring Security and Spring MVC  • Hands-on experience with various design patterns like MVC Architecture, Front Controller, Singleton, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Observer, Decorator, Session Facade, Factory Pattern and DAO pattern etc.  • Proficient in handling & administering web server's/application servers - WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss and Apache Tomcat  • Experience in using Bower, Grunt, Yeoman and Angular CLI  • Good knowledge of using testing frameworks Karma, Jasmine and Protractor  • Hands on experience in setting up the Jenkins configuration to build nightly from Dev, release and deploy in INT and TEST environments.  • Experience working with version control systems such as GIT, Accurev and IBM Clear Case  • Experience in using build tools like Maven and ANT  • Extensive experience in maintaining the source code and documentation by using CVS, SVN and GIT.  • Experienced in using SQL, MySQL, Database Design, Storage Procedures, and triggers on using SQL Server.  • Experience in creating and utilizing components related to React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Hands on experience in creating and refreshing a site page utilizing AngularJS, Angular (2-6), React JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery crosswise over different programs and consequently accomplishing cross program similarity.  • Proficiency in using DOM, AJAX, JSON, responsive web design, Bootstrap 4, for designing web sites.  • Extensive experience in developing software products using Methodologies such as Agile and Waterfall Model.  • Experience with web development mark-up and scripting languages such as HTML5, jQuery, XML, JavaScript and XSLT.  • Good experience in React.js for creating interactive UI'S using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, and React Native concepts.  • Experienced in developing React.js pages, web services and Ajax calls for the applications used in development of the web application to blind the data.  • Experience in creating Templates, Web Interfaces, Layouts, Prototypes with Adobe and Mock-Ups.  • Strong understanding in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC), and Methodologies like Waterfall and Agile/SCRUM.  • Have a good experience in utilizing AngularJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Scope content.  • Experience in Cross browser compatibility for implementing browsers like Safari, Firefox, Opera, IE and Chrome.  • Extensive experience in developing User Interface (UI) with MVC frameworks such as AngularJS, Node JS, and Ember JS.  • Implemented RESTFUL microservices using spring boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Eureka, Spring Zuul, Spring Feign, Spring Hysterix, Ribbon and consumed using spring REST services using Spring Rest Template.  • Experience in Unit/Integration Testing frameworks and libraries like Jasmine, Mocha and Karma for AngularJS and Node JS.  • Good comprehension of how node.js functions in the backend.  • Installing and Configuring and troubleshooting Linux Operating Systems.  • Used Test Driven Development (TDD) as part of agile process.  • Experienced in implementing various jQuery UI Controls and corresponding Event Handlers.  • Experience in using Responsive Web design with Media Queries, SASS and LESS.  • Strong communication skills for interacting with the team, outstanding problem solving, strong focus on teamwork, result oriented and data analysis skills.  • Extensive experience in interacting with clients/users to gather the user requirements.  • Easily adaptable to the work conditions and consistently deliver the quality work and Capable of adapting to new technologies and can face any new challenge that exist in the project. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer State Farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in writing UI code using ANGULAR 6, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap4.  • Created various Angular directives, controllers, DOM, expressions, templates, data binding, etc  • Implemented the Select and Appoint feature for the applicants who filled the applications using the external module of the Designee Management System applications using Angular  • Created the single page application using Angular 6, JavaScript, TypeScript and the state of the application is kept in store and is accessed using selectors where ever needed.  • Develop and maintain micro services using Spring Boot and Kubernetes.  • Using Visual Studio Code, Angular 5, TypeScript and the Angular CLI for coding, scaffolding, data binding, debugging, compiling, bundling, minifying and building modules (i.e. components, services, pipes, directives, and routes.  • Implemented Angular promises to handle asynchronous communication with our Rest API for various requirements  • Make pluggable UI microservice for each platform which should solve the monolithic problem of seed generation and create Docker image and deploy them into kubernates using Angular.js 2.0.  • Worked with Docker for containing microservices and write docker file, Jenkins for Automated Integration and deployment process and kubernates for deploying pods. And maintaining each pod on kubernates dashboard and load balancing.  • Working on single client platform supported by around 9 other services, an internal API to connect them, and an external API for partners. It allows us to keep codebases smaller, optimize more specifically, and explore new technologies with isolation.  • Developing Dockerfile for different end points and validate them through the docker-central to run the Jenkins job with given parameter and deploy job to the kubernates.  • Working on AT&T plugin components like Authentication and Authorization, Cookie based Authentication and login, developed logging mechanism to dashboard to keep all logs for application.  • Integration with CICD (Continuous integration and continuous Deployment) Process for all microservices and serve them to external innovations.  • Support Client side libraries like angular and database connection like MySQL, Casandra, mongoDB and postgres through the Node base microservice and have them connected with Api calls.  • Created Polymer.js, ES6 application to make UI by Dragging and Dropping the web components, where each component contains different microservice and make UI after combine all microservice together. Developed ES6 web components for the multiple uses in the UI.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Written Junit test cases for testing UI Framework classes.  • We setup the development environment using Node.js, Npm, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, git.  • Essentially worked on Message Routing and Kafka Broker implementation in node.js.    Environment: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, Typescript, Angular4/5/6, Ajax, Bootstrap 4, MongoDB, RESTful, AJAX, JQuery, NPM, Eclipse, JSON, Apache Tomcat, Adobe Dreamweaver, Agile Methodology. Sr. UI Developer Fiserv - Alpharetta, GA July 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing Custom Directives using Angular 2 Imperative Routing, Guards and implemented Routing with the help of Angular 2 Router Module.  • Designed and Developed Web Application using Angular with TypeScript, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular 2.  • Worked on creating responsive Webpages for smart devices using Bootstrap 4 and Media queries.  • Designed modular and reusable Angular 2 components for SPA development and Implemented share models to interact with RESTful API's.  • Wrote controllers that are responsible for transferring control between components, routing, and rendering views using Angular 2 framework.  • Involved in working with the back-end developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features using Angular 2.  • Developed the application as Single Page Application (SPA) utilizing Angular2 MVC structure.  • Developed front-end components using Angular6, TypeScript, Angular Material and NgRx-bootstrap and Node.  • Worked on Node.js Middleware framework like Express.js and Hapi.js and essentially developed microservices and serve them through middleware. Served any Client side libraries through microservices.  • Worked on NPM packages and published them to nexus repositories, Developed Gulp, grunt task runner or application and involved in to write Unit test cases.  • Essentially working to develop restful Apis and invoke Soap Apis in Express.js and Hapijs, validating Apis with swagger. Developed the features, scenarios, step definitions for TDD (Test Driven Development) using Cucumber.  • Involved in developing dynamic UI using Angular JS and produced dynamic, interactive data visualizations by using JavaScript library like D3.js.  • Responsible for writing database programming in SQL Queries, Stored procedures, function, triggers, cursors, object types, Cursors, sequences, indexes etc.  • Used Jira as a device for venture following and administration where we refresh the day by day undertakings performed.  • Responsible and used React.js for creating interactive UI's using one-way data flow, virtual DOM, JSX, and React Native Concepts.  • Responsible for using React.js components for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, and Multi-level Dropdown.  • Involved in creating React.js components using JSX and Virtual DOM followed Redux Architecture for unidirectional data flow and manage data in React and make Http requests in React & Redux.  • Utilized D3.js for comparing sales across the years, and after observing that our webpage is integrating with data by using D3.js then we focused on binding data to DOM elements, for more performance we reused code and added specific functions to our content.  • Involved in implementing JWT Tokens also Oauth2 Token Authentication and build the components which can be reusable for the n-tire Application.  • Maintained and handled database access using Node.JS and Express and manipulated data using CRUD operations of MongoDB database management system.  • In connecting to MYSQL database for faster and easier web development we used Bootstrap as a front-end framework and Node.js as a backend.  • In developing unit test cases and functional test cases we used Karma framework.  • Most of the time I have contributed to client and server-side Development using HTML5, CSS3, and LESS, also JavaScript framework libraries such as NodeJS, AngularJS, etc.  • Responsible for maintaining Continuous Integration and code version using GIT.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS/SCSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, node.js, Java, AJAX, ReactJS, Redux, Flux, Bootstrap, Ionic, Angular 2, Backbone.js, JSON/XML, jQuery, Agile methodology, Karma, Jasmine, WebStorm, GIT. Web/UI Developer Wyndham - Orlando, FL November 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including Mobile, Tablet, and Desktop.  • Created different site page formats utilizing HTML and CSS, Bootstrap with center around client experience and consistence to gauges.  • Handled the change of the current undertaking written in JavaScript/jQuery to AngularJS.  • Handled program similarity issues in HTML, CSS and JavaScript for IE, Firefox and Chrome.  • Involved in developing page layouts, navigation, and animation Buttons and Icons.  • Responsible for implementing user interface designs from UI specifications and product requirements.  • For creating line and pie charts we used High-charts third-party library, and for some complex visualizations we explored D3.js.  • Responsible for managing the code repository through source version control tool GIT.  • Involved in working with CSS3 Background, Positioning, Text, and CSS3 Border.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with the backend Java code, AJAX and JSON via REST web services and APIs.  • Responsible for developing business logic along with connecting the application to server with REST web services.  • Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers with Linux, WebLogic etc.  • Involved in using Agile/Scrum methodology of Software Development.  • Responsible in working with the AngularJS custom qualities for DOM controls.  • Worked with Spring MVC and Hibernate in the backend to assemble the business rationale.  • Wrote and expended Restful Web Service brings in both JSON and XML groups.  • Responsible for maintaining cross browser compatibility issues with Styles, Layouts and fixed bugs for supported platforms and browsers.  • Involved in co-ordination with Software Engineering teams for interactions between Mobile UI and back-end Staff.    Environment: HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, XML, JSON, LESS, Karma/Jasmine, Eclipse. Web/UI Developer Navigating Cancer - Seattle, WA March 2012 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and created intranet web applications utilizing Java, JavaScript and CSS.  • Involved in developing AngularJS services for reusable functionality.  • Developed front-end, cross-browser HTML/DHTML templates and all GUI features through HTML, CSS and jQuery.  • Responsible for deploying, designing and developing Cloud-based solution using core AWS Services.  • Maintained and developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages like HTML, CSS3 and JavaScript, with Jasmine framework.  • Responsible for coordinating with Business Analysts and after perfect analysis conducted feedback session.  • Involved in developing and designing the application using CSS3 and HTML5 achieved responsive layouts using Bootstrap grid system.  • Responsible for producing content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations, also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Involved in using JIRA tool for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  • In development of different styles used jQuery CSS selectors, toggles and hover functionality, ToolTip and Ajax Forms.  • In configuring web server plug-ins used Apache 2.2 for WebLogic application servers.  • Developed framework for templating and used Ember JS for Client-Side functionality.  • For maintaining the team in a proper way helped team members and provided technical assistance regarding client website, applications and user experiences.  • Performed application upgrades, patches, identities and troubleshoot bugs that involved Tuxedo, Tomcat and Apache.  • Used broadly AJAX idea of JavaScript utilizing the XML Http Request protest associate with outer administrations to send and get information in SOAP organize.  • Efficient in Using Configuring version controls like SVN, GIT.  • Analyzing the site movement and Search Engine Optimization.    Environment: AngularJS, LESS, AJAX, Apache, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, JIRA, Bootstrap, Jasmine, jQuery, AWS service, Emberjs, GIT. UI Developer Information Builders - New York, NY July 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating documents like Functional Specification and System Design based on Business Requirement document provided by business analyst.  • Involved in writing code through cross browser of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer, Firefox.  • Participated in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  • Responsible for using IDE like JDeveloper to develop application and CVS for Version Control.  • Maintained and developed various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) by using Water fall Methodology.  • Wrote application level code to interact with APIs, web services using AJAX, JSON, and XML.  • Responsible for creating and executing Unit test cases using Jasmine and Juint.  • Involved in writing complex SQL queries by using joins, sub queries and later correlated sub queries to retrieve data from database.  • Created and Updated Database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, function, packages.  • Involved in developing various generic functions used JavaScript for validations also used SOAP UI for testing web services.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, jQuery, CSS and HTML.  • Created Classes, Methods for different functionalities and error handling, exception management features in the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to Git hub.  • Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Developed Web API using MVC framework for all business logic and exposed to the front-end interfaces    Environment: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON, DOM, AJAX, Bootstrap, REST Web Service, GIT, XHTML, PERL, MongoDB, Express.js, Firefox, Opera. Software Developer Audible - Newark, NJ March 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing all the User Interface (UI) pages using AngularJS, HTML, DOM, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax.  • Involved in developing single page web application using JavaScript framework AngularJS.  • Designed and created webpages according to client's guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintained the website using HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Responsible for using CSS to change the styles to be used in future web layouts and debugging the errors with CSS.  • Involved in testing application on Internet Explorer and other browsers like Opera, Firefox, and Google chrome to achieve cross browser compatible issues.  • Responsible for converting Photoshop documents to table-less semantic XHTML, CSS and performed validations of XHTML and CSS (using Firebug, HTML Tidy, W3C validator).  • For handling Form submissions incorporated PERL scripts.  • Executed all the test cases and fixed bugs/issues that identified during the test cycles with respect to various devices.  • Involved in creating REST APIs by using NodeJS as backend, Express.JS as a Middleware, and MongoDB as Database.  • Responsible for gathering Design & Analysis of the Project Specifications, development and customization of the Application.  • Used Angular v1.6 and Angular materials as the front-end framework, with CSS, and HTML4 as the main programming languages.  • Used jQuery to navigate to different pages of application and create AJAX to handle asynchronous communication between client and server.  • Developed course video search system using jQuery with YouTube search APIs and implemented efficient paper search on Scottrade database.  • Used GIT for version control.    Environment: HTML, CSS, SDLC, JavaScript, jQuery, Usability testing, SOAP, SQL, CVS, AJAX, Water fall Methodology, Jasmine, Git, MVC. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (10+ years), Bootstrap (10+ years), Css (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Jquery (10+ years)