Sr. RoR Developer Sr. RoR <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. RoR Developer - Fidelity Investments Seattle, WA • Over 8+ years of extensive professional experience in Design and Development of Web based applications in Banking, Healthcare Domains using JavaScript framework, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3 and HTML5.  • 6+ years of software engineering experience including extensive experience in Ruby on Rails applications.  • Expert in object oriented programming OOP concepts using Ruby.  • Expert in making progress and examining using object oriented and Model view controller practice.  • Expert in Distributed Version Control Systems like Mercurial or Git.  • Strong on development of Gems on Rails, JMS integration, Java, Tomcat, VIM, HTML5, Javascript, browser compatibilities, JRuby, integration with Gems running on Ruby.  • Developed features using Ruby on Rails in a UNIX/LINUX environment.  • Developed front-end management features for the Ruby on Rails-based website. This involved view, controller, and model development as well as CSS and Javascript front-end work too. SASS and Compass were used in later iterations.  • Used RSpec to create test driven development. Experience with all of the GEMS and libraries for this version of the ruby.  • Developing high-quality Web applications while improving and maintaining an existing MVC code base in Ruby on Rails  • Used Filters, Rails finder methods and wrote model scopes in the application.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Design, develop, and deploy engaging web applications using Python.  • Developed MVC for Events and Theme data for Creating, Updating and Deleting Events and Theme in Neo4j database.  • Used Ember.js and Redis as backend for Django to retrieve data from CouchDB to display rich reports to users.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Developed user interface solutions using a Django web framework. Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Built with Ruby on Rails as a JSON API for Backbone and js on the frontend.  • Object oriented concepts are mainly used to design applications.  • Designed user Interface for website with ERB, JQuery, RJS, Ruby, Ajax for View, Controller, Model in Ruby on Rails Framework.  • Worked on Integrated Development Environment like RubyMine.  • Involved in handling code reviews and bug fixes.  • Used RSpec and Cucumber to create Test Driven Development (TDD) and Experience with all the RVM, GEMS and libraries for this version of the Ruby/Rails. Work Experience Sr. RoR Developer Fidelity Investments - Charlotte, NC August 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked in the design and development phases as lead of the application using ROR framework.  • Used Rails, AJAX, JSON, CSS and JQUERY to design the front end of the application. Back end of the application is developed mainly using Active Records.  • Developed and tested many features in an AGILE environment using Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS JavaScript, Bootstrap, Rspec, and Html.  • Input validations were done using Rails Validation functions.  • Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  • User Interface for website with ERB, JQuery, RJS, Ruby, Ajax for View, Controller, Model in Ruby on Rails Framework on Mac OS X and Operating System.  • Worked with Active record Classes from Rails Console for Database programming, which also involved writing active record validations.  • Designed and developed the web applications and interface using Ruby, Rails, and AJAX.  • Developed and implemented flagship e-commerce platform using Ruby on Rails and Mongo db.  • Designed and developed the frontend application using Rails, CSS, AJAX and JQuery.  • Wrote ruby scripts for deployments onto AWS and Continuous Integration provisioning.  • Developed web applications with W3C XHTML, HTML5, CSS3 standards and using Ruby, Rails, Git and Heroku.  • Developed stored procedures compatible with MYSQL in ruby.  • Developed solutions using Ruby on Rails and Active Record and integrated gems, plug-in etc.  • Created Ruby on Rails API for Angular front end mobile home sharing app.  • Created and modified code within a Ruby on Rails-based application  • Ruby on Rails-based platform via decoration, extensive use of view models, and additional customer based customizations  • Involved in developing and implementation of the Back-end web application using Ruby on Rails.  • Developed site-utilizing Ruby on Rails on Mac OS, upheld by MySQL and Capistrano to automate and facilitate the • Developed site-utilizing Ruby on Rails on Mac OS, upheld by MySQL and Capistrano to automate and facilitate the deployment process on Phusion Passenger server. Utilized RHTML, YAML, RJS and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to outline the site pages.  • Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  • Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, AngularJS, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  • Involved in Cassandra data modeling going through the phases of creating Conceptual model, Application flow, Logical model, Physical Optimization, Final Physical model.  • Create new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development  • Implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO) . Also Developed hibernate mappings to tables using JPA annotations.  • Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  • Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic.  • Worked on stored procedures, triggers, cursors, DB scheduler, PL/SQL, MySQL and SQL queries  • Developed automation test cases using Java and Junit on Eclipse application.  • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.  • Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT    Environment: Rspec, Ruby, Rails, Redis, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, React.JS, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Java, Oracle, , PL/SQL, MS-Sql, JDBC, Maven, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, Subversion (SVN), Windows XP, Linux. Sr. RoR Developer Quicken Loans - Palo Alto, CA August 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed automation test using Ruby, Jruby, and Watir-Rspec for Browser testing, and Cucumber in Ruby for SLT.  • Developed website using Ruby on Rails on Unix/Linux operating system, backed by MySQL, Oracle and Mongo db.  • Responsible for writing code in Object Oriented Programming supported by Ruby on Rails in Agile SCRUM environment.  • Implemented Complex data structures (Sorting, Searching, Stack, Queue, and Link List) for Ruby programming as per client specifications.  • Used Rails, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, Node JS and Angular JS to design the front end of the application. Back end of the application is developed mainly using Active Records.  • Ruby on Rails on Linux operating system, backed by Capistrano and PostgreSQL to automate and ease the deployment process on Phusion Passenger server. RJS, YAML and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to design web pages.  • Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming is used to develop client based features and applications.  • Implementation of Rails back-end for Case Manager on Linux environment.  • Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  • Working with Ruby gems such as ruby-pg for Oracle- PostGRE-SQL  • Wrote backend programming in Ruby on Rails.  • Database modeling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  • Implementing ROR upgrades and patches and publishing Ruby Gems. Using Ruby Gems.  • Wrote various interfaces to the management system in Ruby on Rails  • Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  • Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  • Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQL.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  • Lead, Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite  • Involved in Development of the application Using J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSF, Struts)  • Developed the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle and MS SQL Server.  • Developed SQL queries with PHP Doctrine and Propel to create, retrieve and update data and programming SQL sentences based on CRUD.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  • Utilized Agile Methodology/Scrum (SDLC) to managed projects and team.  • Responsible in configuring and setting-up Apache Tomcat/Spring-TC Server for the development phase.  • Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Extensively involved in the development of backend Logics or data access logic using Oracle DB & JDBC.  • Create webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware  • Used XML WebServices using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  • Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validators and JavaScript.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  • Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT  • Writing JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional quality.    Environment: Rspec, Ruby, Rails, Redis, HTML, CSS, XML, React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Java, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, Apache CXF, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum. Sr Web Developer The Home Depot - Chicago, IL March 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Extensive experience in developing Ruby Gems and scripting using Ruby Core, JRuby and Ruby Standard Libraries.  • Proficient in design and implemented intranet applications using Ruby on Rails and PostgreSQL on Heroku Cloud Packages and Triggers on databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL and Oracle.  • Developed application in agile development methodology using Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS BDD and pair based programming.  • Designed the front end of the application using Rails, CSS, HTML, jQuery and JSON.  • Worked with bash, powershell and ruby scripting. Strong Object oriented development experience in Javascript, Ruby and Python.  • Development using Ruby On Rails, Angular JS, Elastic Search, TDD  • Developed automation test using Ruby, JRuby, Rspec Watir for Browser testing, Cucumber in Ruby for SLT  • Created data validation scripts for data validation (Ruby)  • Created blog posting tool using Ruby on Rails.  • Developed internationalization testing tools, using Ruby, Python and Visual Basic.  • Coded model level validation using Ruby programming with emphasis in web security.  • Front end expertise using HTML and CSS, and also managing Ruby on Rails layouts and views.  • Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  • Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  • Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS  • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI  • Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  • Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, AngularJS, JQuery and REST Services  • Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  • Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other javascript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  • Prepared statements are used for communication Sql database  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  • Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL.  Environment: Rspec, Ruby, Rails, Redis, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. Developer Ruby on Rails - Boston, MA February 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Ruby on Rails on Mac operating system is used to design the website, backed by Capistrano and MySQL to automate and ease the deployment process on Phusion Passenger server. RJS, YAML and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to design web pages.  • Used Rails, AJAX, JSON, CSS and jQuery to design the front end of the application. Back end of the application is developed mainly using Active Records.  • Used SCRUM and Agile methodology.  • Normalization and de-normalization is carried out by writing Stored Procedures and simple queries using MySQL database.  • Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming is used to develop client based features and applications.  • Object oriented concepts are mainly used to design applications.  • User Interface for website with ERB, JQuery, RJS, Ruby, Ajax for View, Controller, Model in Rubyon Rails Framework.  • GitHub and unit tests are used to manage code.  • Developed hundreds of features in an agile environment using Ruby on Rails, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in handling bug fixes.  • Used RSpec and Cucumber to create Test Driven Development (TDD) and Experience with all the RVM, GEMS and libraries for this version of the Ruby/Rails.  • Interacted with the IT Project Management Office through project task assignments, web application design from documented business requirements, and developer testing.  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Implemented Test Driven Environment with RSpec and Behavior Driven Development using Cucumber.  • End-to-end web application development with Ruby and the Ruby on Rails  • MVC framework for the back-end while the front-ends were built using the Blueprint CSS Framework and HTML  • Developed web applications that were consistent with W3C, XHTML, HTML and CSS3 standards.  • Development with the following technologies: Ruby, Rails, MongoDB  • Practiced Test-Driven Development with RSpec and Behavior Driven Development with Cucumber and Capybara.  • Developed custom Rails applications specific to client's unique needs.  • Involved in developing the screens for delete, Edit, and Enable, Disable and Impersonate Users in web application  • Involved in developing the page to show regular news feed by using crack 0.1.8 Ruby Gems to parse the XMLs.  Environment: Ruby on Rails, CSS, BDD, jQuery, RSpec, Unit Testing, MySQL, HTML, Cucumber. Web Developer CSW Solutions Inc - Chicago, IL July 2008 to January 2010 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end applications, user interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML, XHTML and CSS.  • Developed CSS page layouts, styles and table less coding for efficient design.  • Designed page - layouts using Dreamweaver and banner using Adobe Flash. Implemented Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Responsible for content and UI development.  • Worked on Ext.JS to implement MVVM JavaScript framework for building a rich cross-platform web application.  • Created Use case diagram, Class, Sequence diagrams for the module.  • Created complex controls like data grid, tree node multi selector and comments input control using ExtJS technology.  • Used Struts/MVC framework to standardize the interactions between the JSP/View layer, the action controller and the underlying Form model. Internationalization was inherent to the design the objects that were locale to the database.  • Developed and Implemented WebServices and used Spring Framework.  • Used Ibatis to populate the data from the Database.  • Design (architectural), develop, and deployment of front-end and presentation layer logic of sites using JSP, HTML/DHTML, CSS, and JavaScript  • Expertise in developing enterprise applications using Struts Frameworks.  • Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Implemented CSS, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Developed Contract List to pull all the contracts which returned a JSON which is acceptable by Dojo Grid.  • Developed the web services by using WSDL, SOAP using SOA.  • Contributed to organization of testing and quality improvement process (JIRA, Confluence)  • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  • Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Servlets, EJB's using Web sphere Studio Application Developer and used CVS for version control.  • Design and development of the exception management workflow using Oracle BPM  • Used JMS to pick xml file from IBM MQ series Queues and Parsed xml documents using DOM parsers to get data.  • Developed and designed web interfaces and layouts using PHP, Javascript, HTML and CSS  • Used ADO.NET to provide connectivity to SQL Server back end database.  • Developed J2EE code for the order submission components which interface with mainframe CICS programs through a CICS gateway.  • Worked on stored procedures, PL/SQL and SQL queries.    Environment: JavaScript, EXTJS, Node.JS, Java/J2EE, PHP, Spring, iBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, JQuery, MYSQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, Net beans, JBoss, CVS, Visual Source Safe, Selenium, Water fall Model, UML, JSP, SERVELT, ANT, JSON, Xml, EMC Documentation, JIRA, SWING, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, ASP, C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, PL/I Education MS Columbus State University