NET/ Web Designer/ Developer NET/<span class="hl">Web</span> Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Charlotte, NC ? Over 8+ years of experience in Requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Coding, Testing, Implementation & Product support of various applications with involvement in all stages of software development life cycle.  ? Experience in developing Web based applications and Client-Server technologies using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XHTML/DHTML & XML, DOM, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Angular.JS/Angular2, TypeScript and JSON.  ? Solid understanding of Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOD& OOPS) Dependency Injection, UML and RDBMS principles.  ? Extensive experience in .NET Technologies .NET Framework 4.5, 4.0, 3.5, 2.0, C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, LINQ.  ? Designed and developed the application using Agile Methodology and followed TDD and Scrum.  ? Experience in gathering requirement analysis, architecture, design & development of enterprise N-tier applications, documentation of user requirements, functional, systems Integration and architectural specifications.  ? Proficient in Model View Control (MVC) design pattern, Model-View-View Model (MVVM) design Pattern, Team Foundation Server (TFS) and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  ? Experience in accessing data using ADO, ADO.NET, LINQ and Entity Frameworks. Strong developing experience in Visual studio.NET.  ? Experience in web development with JavaScript, JQuery, Typescript, AJAX, JSON, CSS, Angular JS, HTML, HTML5 and DHTML.  ? Extensively used new software tools in designing user interfaces and adapt to the changing environment.  ? Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC framework in the browser, event-driven applications using Ajax, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, and XML.  ? Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML, and JavaScript.  ? Expertise in maintains websites, software and understanding and modifying existing code.  ? Thorough understanding of CSS principles with a clear ideology for managing maintainable, scalable and cross-browser code.  ? Extensive Knowledge in developing single-page applications (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Backbone.js, AngularJS, Underscore.js, and Bootstrap.  ? Expertise in handling response data from RESTful web services using XML, JSON.  ? Good Experience using Bootstrap for Responsive Web Design (RWD) and CSS media Queries.  ? Expertise in using source code control systems such as TFS and GIT.  ? Good report creation skills using Microsoft Reporting Services (SSRS), SSIS with proficiency in using Report Designer as well as Report Builder.  ? Good in creating stored procedures, Triggers, Functions and Optimizing Queries for performance by looking at execution plan using MS-SQL Server.  ? Expertise in coding optimized SQL queries on databases like MySQL.  ? Highly Curious about new front-end development technologies and adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering them with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of programming solutions.  ? Able to effectively communicate with wide range of clients and coworkers.  ? Capable of quickly learning and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NET/ Web Designer/ Developer .NET/Web Designer/Developer - Columbus, OH March 2016 to Present Nationwide is an Auto insurance company and its greatest asset in providing excellent customer service to our customers. That's why Nation Wide Supply Management Services group makes sure their agents and associates get the best quality products and services, at the best possible cost. We developed a mobile and web application using technologies like ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, Typescript. ts, MVC framework, HTML5, CSS3, Adobe, AJAX, Angular.js and JavaScript.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements analysis, designing, development, testing and maintenance of the website.  • Developed website using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular.js.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using MVC 5.0, DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery UI.  • Developed web application using MVC 5.0, ASP.NET, C#.NET and VB.NET for Middle tier processing.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Created Typescript controllers for the different pages in the views using Typescript.ts.  • Created Directives, Services, Filters using Angular.js with Typescript.ts.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Developed the code using C#, ASP.NET, HTML 5, AJAX, Angular JS and JQuery using Visual Studio 2015  • Worked with type definition files using Typescript.ts.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript and Angular.js.  • Created Utility API's for AJAX calls using JavaScript, XMLHTTP Object and JQuery for making Web Service calls.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for version controlling of application.  • Designed and developed Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.  Environment: C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, TypeScript.ts, MVC 5.0, HTML/HTML5, DHTML, TFS, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS/CSS3, Adobe, Chrome, SQL Server, Windows and MS Office. NET/ Web Developer Washington State Employment Security Dept April 2015 to March 2016 WSESD)  Next generation tax system (NGTS) is a web application used to track and process employment security related transactions for Washington state. This application is used to collect tax from employers, process unemployment Insurance, generate and send various correspondence to employers in the state etc. Adding new features, fixing bugs identified by users, automating test cases using ATATA framework, writing documents, developing web tool using MVC and Angular JS to help business and dev team analyze bugs using UI experience, are my core responsibilities in this project.    Responsibilities:  • Description of the work performed - Meeting with business users and collecting information related to bugs.  • Writing requirement analysis document and technical specification documents  • Fix bugs, write unit test case documents and unit testing the modules.  • Develop web tool (TAAC - Tax Accounting Analysis Console) using MVC, web API, Angular JS.  • Creating RESTful services to help communicate between UI and database  • Automated test cases using ATATA framework as part of helping test team.  • Maintaining code base using TFS and later GitHub, as the client moved to Git.  • Upgrading SSRS and SSIS packages from version 2005/2008 to 2014.  • Following agile methodology, attending daily scrum meetings to discuss the project progress.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015/2017, SQL Server 2014, C#.net, MVC, Web Api, Angular JS, TF NET/ Web Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA June 2014 to April 2015 AT&T Inc. is an American multinational telecommunications conglomerate, headquartered at Whitacre Tower in downtown Dallas, Texas. AT&T is the world's largest telecommunications company. AT&T is the second largest provider of mobile telephone services and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States, and provides broadband subscription television services through DirecTV. AT&T is going to introduce a cloud-based DVR streaming service as part of its effort to create a unified platform across DirecTV and its DirecTV Now streaming service with U-verse. The aim of the project was to reduce the time taken to process the applications. Development included user management feature User Interfaces (UI) using Angular.js, jQuery, ASP.Net MVC 4.5 using industry best practices. NET/ Web Developer Ernst & Young - Tysons Corner, VA April 2013 to June 2014 Ernst & Young (EY) is a multinational professional services firm. The organization operates as a network of member firms which are separate legal entities in individual countries. This project involved the development of EY Leases Accounting Navigator Tool that helps to track the contracts or lease information of the company properties.    Responsibilities:  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, CSS3 and Ajax.  • Created user interface using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3 and HTML5.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Bootstrap is used for making the pages responsive to the changes in User Interfaces  • Worked on MVC framework like AngularJS as a development framework to build single page applications.  • Web application development for backend system using AngularJS and Node.js with cutting edge.  • Experience with jQuery, Angular JS in templating and Bootstrap.  • Experience in using JavaScript and ASP.NET validation controls for performing Form Validations.  • Worked with technologies like jQuery and Ajax to make more attractive and easy to use website.  • Worked on developing web application on a mobile platform using jQuery mobile, jQuery Google API plugin.  • Used several jQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Involved in the development of SOAP-based XML Web Services like Financial account management and Purchase Orders which forms the business logic components of the system.  • Used Grunt as the automated task runner for a better development/build/production workflow  • Used Node.js (npm) as the package manager for development workflow dependent plugins.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, and Google Chrome.  • Involved in the search for errors, broken links and missing images etc. and rectify.  • Collaboration with team members design, analysis, coding, testing, and review website.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular.js, Agile, Adobe Photoshop, Bootstrap, Ajax, SOAP, JSON, jQuery. NET/UI Developer IBM - New York, NY July 2012 to March 2013 IBM (International Business Machines Corporation) is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Armonk, New York with operations in over 170 countries. IBM manufactures and markets computer hardware, middleware and software and offers hosting and consulting services in areas ranging from mainframe computers to nanotechnology. IBM has a large and diverse portfolio of products and services. These offerings fall into the categories of cloud computing, cognitive computing, commerce, data and analytics, IT Infrastructure, mobile and security.    Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface using HTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, and jQuery UI.  • Used jQuery to handle the client-side validations.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Responsible for transforming designed mock-ups to web pages.  • Used to update the HTML pages using jQuery, Ajax via JSON response.  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter.  • Involved in Writing, Modifying complex Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Developing User Control for Common Functionality in the ASP.NET.  • Performed validations using Validation Controls.  • Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development with MySQL database as the backend.  • Used AngularJS to develop a standalone test application, in the scope of future usage of the framework.  • Creating browser compatibility web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox.  • Following Scrum methodology to track the project details and updating the development status every day in the SCRUM.  • Performing new website support research in the areas of Latest Web Technologies, Usability, Accessibility, and User Experience.  Environment: Visual Studio.Net, ASP.Net, JavaScript, SQL Server, XML, CSS, C#.NET, HTML, CSS, Angular.JS, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, Eclipse, Bootstrap. NET/ Web Developer TriHealth - Cincinnati, OH June 2011 to July 2012 TriHealth is the integrated health care system that formed as a partnership between Good Samaritan Hospital and Bethesda Hospital, Inc. TriHealth is a full-service, not-for-profit health system that provides a wide range of clinical, educational, preventive and social programs. The Enterprise Data warehouse has all the data from Patient, Physician and Hospital perspective. The Clinical Warehouse has data about the Patient Encounters, Diagnosis and Results.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Webpages using ASP.NET, C#.NET, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery CSS and server controls.  • Developed secure login interfaces with ASP.NET Server controls.  • Used various server controls like Multi View and Grid View with extensive data binding to display, page and sort multiple records.  • Developed Custom Controls and User controls for reusable part of the web pages using C# with ASP.NET.  • Worked with AJAX enabled WCF services using C# and ASP.NET.  • Implemented the functionality for the plugin using C#, ASP.NET, MVC, WCF and Entity Framework.  • Coding the presentation layer using WPF and service layer using Windows Communication foundation technology.  • Developed front-end using AngularJS, jQuery, HTML based on MVC architecture.  • Used LINQ Data context object with ADO.NET Entity Framework for LINQ, invoked tables and stored procedures.  • Extensively worked with Controllers, Directives, Scope, Model and Modules in AngularJS.  • Extensively used MVC for the designing on multiple devices.  • Developed test-driven development (TDD) strategy guiding use of the Nunit testing framework.  • Used Validation Controls for corresponding validations required for business logic in Web Forms.  • Worked on T-SQL programming (triggers/views/functions) in SQL Server including data integrity and schema enhancements.  • Developed Web Pages using SPA (Single Page Applications) Framework, HTML, CSS, Angular JS.  • Used Entity Framework Code First Approach and LINQ to create the data layer for the application.  • Created Views by applying complex queries on multiple tables to create the virtual tables and implemented Cursors in Stored Procedures using SQL Server 2010, Implemented Joins in Stored Procedures to get the desired data by joining multiple tables.  • Involved in testing like Unit test, Integration test, Acceptance test and Regression testing using NUnit and responsible for writing test scripts and scenarios.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for source code control, project related document sharing and team collaboration.  • Integrated custom Administration Back-End into SiteFinity CMS.  • Responsible for testing, fixing the bugs and troubleshooting the technical problems.  • Modified applications according to the user's requirements.  Environment: ASP.NET, C#.Net, ADO.NET, OOP, XML, AJAX, WCF, WPF, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, IIS 6.0, LINQ, Entity Framework, MVC, SOA, SQL Server, SSRS, SSIS, Win Forms, T-SQL, AngularJS, TFS, TDD, NUnit, HTML, and DHTML. Front End Developer CSC - San Francisco, CA January 2011 to June 2011 Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC) was an American multinational corporation that provided information technology (IT) services and professional services. CSC initially provided programming tools such as compiler and assembling software. CSC provided software writing services to major computer manufacturers like IBM and Honeywell and secured their first contracts for the U.S. public sector with NASA. CSC ranked among the leading IT service providers in the world. It provides application services will helps to develop, manage and modernize apps to accelerate the digital transformation and the business results. It provides the Enterprise and Cloud application services to deliver value and innovation to the enterprise applications, with industry, business process and systems integration services.    Responsibilities:  • Developed front-end code using advanced JavaScript, jQuery, HTML & CSS techniques, with a focus on object-oriented design.  • Created the user interface for all the static and dynamic pages.  • Coded application logic in ASP.NET using C# as code behind.  • Designed end user interface using Web-forms in ASP.NET with various Validations Controls.  • Developed data layer logic for user logging which lets user to access the specified services.  • Coded and optimized ADO.NET for data access.  • Consumed Web Service for searching the files and logging into the application at the company.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web page.  • Extensively used the jQuery library for visual effects, event handling, and document manipulation.  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Resolved several cross-browser compatibility issues across application pages.  • Tested for compliance with specified standards such as accessibility standards in the client's region or domain.  Conducted observational user testing, or reviewing designs against usability heuristics.  • Worked together with engineering team to ensure that layouts are developed in a fluid and flexible manner to allow for seamless back-end integration.  • Worked closely with graphic design and user experience teams to ensure industry standards and best practices are being used across all client applications.  • Participated in project planning sessions with project managers, UX team members, and engineers to analyze requirements and outline proposed solutions.  • Developed clean, reusable and well-documented code.  Environment: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, SQL SERVER 2008, Web-Services, Visual Studio.NET 2008, Angular.JS, T-SQL, C#, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Visual Source Safe. Software Developer Southwest Airlines - Atlanta, GA June 2009 to January 2011 Ops Suite application is designed to support end-to-end flight operation needs of Southwest Airlines, such as flight tracking, load planning, movement control, and aircraft data link communications. It helps in managing the complexities of flight operations. My team contributed in upgrading the existing architecture to leverage Spring MVC features; consuming web services using JERSEY implementation and performing unit tests on day-to-day basis.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design discussions, review meetings with Southwest clients and provided design and development estimates based on the complexity of the service(s).  • Actively participated in the SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Created REST service for authentication using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat server on Docker Container.  • Worked on Java 8 upgrade using new library for refactoring lambdas functional interfaces, Streams -parallel processing and Aggregations.  • Involved in using Spring AOP framework for logging purpose.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework for persistence.  • Implemented Restful web services using JAX-RS annotations, used JERSEY and implemented security using OAUTH.  • Created custom SQL Queries and stored procedures to interact with database.  • Involved in loading data to MongoDB (NoSQL Database) using automated scripts.  • Designed and Implemented the DAO layer using spring with Hibernate.  • Involved in creating batch process using Spring Batch framework to extract data from database and load into corresponding tables.  • Involved in full text search feature implementation using Elasticsearch.  • Installed KAFKA on cluster and configured producer and consumer to establish connection from twitter source to HDFS with relevant hash tags.  • Developed Spark Streaming script which consumes topics from distributed messaging source and periodically pushes data to Spark for real time processing.  • Designed, built, and deployed application to AWS stack (Including EC2, R53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SQS, IAM, and EMR), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Integrated Open stack API with Amazon EC2 cloud based architecture in AWS.  • Developed AWS Lambda & RDS function to send a request for internal service end points through API Gateway using Apache Http Client.  • Developed Microservices and integrated with AngularJS and NodeJS applications.  • Developed front-end content using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, XLTS, Bootstrap, and Angular JS.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality.  • Used Maven as build automation tool for deploying the project on WebSphere Application Server and used Jenkins to perform continuous Integration.  • Used GIT for version control tool and Spring Tool Suite (STS) for IDE.  Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Hibernate, Web Services, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, React JS, Ajax, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, Servlets, XML, Maven, Web Sphere, JMS, MongoDB, Hadoop, HDFS, Kafka, SQOOP, Map Reduce, Spark, Spark Streaming, SQL, HQL, Agile Methodology, AWS, Amazon Cloud, Elasticsearch, Tortoise SVN, JSP, JIRA, Log4J, JUnit, Linux, STS, Oracle. Education Bachelor's Skills jQuery (7 years), .NET (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), SQL (6 years), AJAX (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages .Net Framework, VB.NET, C#, ASP.Net, HTML, T-SQL, VBScript, XHTML, DHTML, WSDL, CSS, XML, XAML.  Operating System Windows NT /Vista/7.  .Net Technologies ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Windows Forms, Web Forms, AJAX, Web Services, ActiveX, WCF, WPF, LINQ.  Web Application Servers IIS 7.0/ 6.0 / 5.0.  Technologies  Angular.JS, Angular2, JavaScript, jQuery, Typescript, Kendo UI, knockout.JS, React.JS HTML/HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap 3/2, Telerik UI for Silverlight.    RDMS Oracle 10x/11x, MS-SQL Server  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SSIS Package.  IDE Tools Visual Studio 2015, FrontPage, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, UML.  Version control tools Visual Source Safe 6/5, Team Foundation Server.  Methodologies Waterfall and Agile Scrum