Sr Web Developer Sr <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Web Developer - Integrated Merchandising Solutions Accomplished and driven Software Engineer with over 9 years' experience of application development in technology, energy, supply chain and logistics industries.  Successfully designed, developed and maintained robust and efficient web, client-server and object oriented applications.  Strong communication, leadership, collaboration and teamwork skills. Expertise in translating user needs into technical solutions while focusing on fundamentals and principles of software application development.  Proven record in leading and managing projects from inception to final release in fast paced work environment. Work Experience Sr Web Developer Integrated Merchandising Solutions November 2011 to Present • Led, Designed, developed, and enhanced applications primarily in .Net and also front-end technologies.  • Experienced in Agile, Waterfall and XP methodologies.  • Developed e-commerce web applications in MVC, Asp.Net and Vue.Js frameworks.  • Developed Restful API solutions using Web API, OData and Mulesoft technologies.  • Integrated with backend ERP systems using XML services,  • Implemented Searching and Indexing capabilities using SOLR.  • Implemented micro-services and created swagger specs to collaborate with cross functional teams  • Provide technical documentation to the API's.  • Heavily used responsive design format and optimizing the websites to work efficiently across various devices.  • Responsible for code reviews and technical recommendations.  • Make performance improvements, recommendations to the existing applications and team members.  • Introduced several cutting edge technologies to the team to help solve complex problems.  • Acted as a technical lead developer on the projects and responsible for end-to-end of the design and implementation.  • Provide technical expertise and risk analysis of the technologies and implementation.  • Provide feedback, mentoring and technical solutions to junior associates and team members.  • Help the project team with screening and finding the right technical candidates for the team and on-boarding them.  • Implement POC's of net new technologies as required by the management.  • Work closely with stakeholders to help understand the needs and converting them into efficient technical solutions.    Environment: .Net, Dot Net Core, Asp.Net, MVC, Web Api, OData, Vue.JS, NUXT, React.JS, NPM, Ado.Net, C#, DevX, Telerik, Kendo, jQuery, JavaScript, Axios, Mulesoft, API Management, OAuth, SAML, REST, CSS, Entity Framework, SOLR, Log4Net, NLog, Elmah, SAML 2.0, SQL Server, Bootstrap, Dot Net Nuke, Docker, Bitbucket, SVN, XUnit, MS Unit, Python, Azure. Sr .Net Developer Northern Natural Gas June 2011 to October 2011 • Worked in Agile development with short-term goals and scrum-defined objectives.  • Converted applications that are written in vb.net to c#.  • Consumed FTP client to read and write files in the Network.  • Worked on existing windows service application and adding new processes to the windows service to process various file formats as per business needs.  • Implemented new features to the existing web applications and introduced jQuery and jQuery UI.  • Used Telerik Rad Controls to provide require functionality for the Grid, further enhancing the features of the control.  • Worked on Windows service multi-threaded project and refactoring, configuring the application to process new threads and files.  • Created, configured and consumed WCF service applications with multiple bindings.  • Optimized data layer implemented in Entity framework to reduce data base round trips and also to avoid memory leaks.  • Implemented logging across existing applications  • Created build projects and monitored it with CruiseControl.Net for constant build and integration.  • Created MS unit tests and incorporated them into build projects.    Environment: .Net 2.0/3.5/4.0, Asp.Net 3.5, Ado.Net, C# 2.0, VB.Net 3.5/4.0, Telerik, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS, WCF 4.0, Entity Framework 4.1, Windows Service, IIS 7.0/6.5, SQL Server 2008, Fiddler, Windows Server 2008/2003. (Contractor), Issaquah - WA Microsoft June 2010 to May 2011 Net Developer  • Studying the business requirements, Functional Specification of the system and prepared the technical design document specification.  • Prepared the Designed level documents and Data flow diagrams, such as sequence, class, component and package diagrams using Enterprise Architect.  • Worked on creating the WCF SOAP, REST and MSMQ services for the Order, Fulfillment, Delivery and AVS integration services.  • Created the test clients using WPF to send the messages for delivery and AVS integration of WCF MSMQ services.  • Developed the partner integration toolkit using the Silverlight and MVVM design patterns.  • Created the unit test projects for the services and business layer using the VSTS unit test frame work, PEX and MOLES framework.  • Created the data base tables, pre and post scripts for the deployments, Functions, Indexes, and SQL Server 2008.  • Created and generated the Ado.net entity framework POCO, ADO.net entity framework repository methods and written the efficient LINQ to entities and LINQ to object queries.  • Worked on creating the repository pattern, mock repository and mock entities.  • Used the Fiddler tool to test and debug the WCF REST services.  • Implemented caching mechanism using Windows AppFabric service.  • Implemented exception blocking, tracing and logging mechanism using the Enterprise Library5.0  • Developed Concurrency and Thread Safe code.    Environment: VSTS 2010, .Net 4.0, TFS, WCF4.0, WPF, Silverlight, C#, ADO.NET Entity Framework, Windows AppFabric, LINQ, SQL ServerR2 2008, BizTalk 2010, Enterprise Library5.0, WIX Votive, Fiddler, IIS 7.0, EA, Windows Server 2008, Sandcastle, Visio.    Academic Experience programmer Asp Net January 2010 to April 2010 Project: Voting Statistics Web Site  Voting Statistics application is a web application designed for election system. In general voting system, voters register their vote at voting center. It is difficult to know whether a particular person voted or not during election period. So we need to identify non-voted voters, contact them and make sure that they vote.  Our web application is developed to help election parties identify non-voted voters and contact those people to vote for their parties. When voter reaches voting center, the person at voting center will update voter details in this website. Involved in complete lifecycle of the application from design to implementation and actively involved with team.  Environment: C#, .NET, ASP.NET, SQL Server 2008, HTML, JavaScript, IIS Software Developer / Graduate Assistant Department of Kinesiology January 2009 to April 2010 Graduate assistant, Department of Kinesiology. My role is to assist the graduate students in the department and also working as a software developer in the department. As a software developer we developed a survey tool, which will take the inputs from the users and after the inputs are collected we will mine the data and show the results in the form of charts to the respective users. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Louisiana - Lafayette, LA Bachelors in Information Technology in Information Technology Kakatiya University Skills Ado, Ado.net, Sql server, Sql, Api, C#, Docker, Javascript, Vue.js, Lucene, Oauth, Orm, Python, Solr, Svn, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Solr, Cms Additional Information Skills  • C#, VB, Python.  • SQL Server, ADO.NET, ORM.  • REST, SOAP, Web API, OData.  • MVC, ASP.NET.  • JavaScript, jQuery, Axios.  • CSS, Sass.  • Windows Forms, WPF.  • MS Unit tests, XUnit, Mock frameworks.  • Bitbucket, TFS, SVN.  • Agile, XP, TDD.  • UML  • Dot Net Core    • Npm, nuget.  • React.Js, Vue.Js, NUXT.  • SAML, OAuth.  • SOLR, Lucene.  • NoSql.  • Mulesoft, API Management.  • Microservices, Docker.  • DNN, CMS.  • Elmah, NLog and Log4Net.  • DI, IOC.  • Kendo, Telerik, Devex.  • Swagger, RAML