Designer/Illustrator Designer/Illustrator Front End Web Developer, Designer, Illustrator Aurora, CO Seeking a full-time position. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Designer/Illustrator PixelBit January 2011 to Present Take ownership of the front-end phase of a project, producing various assets and elements and delivering them with clean, error-free code to make the design come alive. Troubleshoot across multiple browsers and devices to ensure superior user experience. Frontend Web Developer 3Pixels - Aurora, CO October 2006 to Present Assist clients by translating their ideas and designs into fully functional, responsive digital experiences using HTML/CSS. Test for functionality and responsiveness across multiple devices and browsers. Consult with clients on functionality, performance, and visual aesthetic recommendations. Print/Graphic Web Designer/ Developer Elkhorn Heating and Air - Englewood, CO July 2006 to August 2009 Established brand identity and awareness through creation of the Elkhorn logo, website, print, and ad design. Established relationships with vendors and worked deliberately on many promotional materials to include large trade show signage, banners and printed materials. Managed and maintained website. IT/Technical support and Graphic Designer Pacific Republic Mortgage 2003 to 2006 Supported a team of mortgage loan officers with print design, marketing materials, and computer technical support. Graphic Web Designer WebPort 2000 to 2003 Collaborated with a team of designers and programmers to create aesthetically pleasing yet functional websites for small to large clientele such as PPG and GMAC Bowl. Through effective layout, relevant content production, and graphic design, I was able to create a great experience for both employer and client. Assistant Instructor Westwood College - Anaheim, CA January 1999 to February 2000 Led courses in HTML while attending college and was hired on as assistant instructor for the graphic design program upon graduating. Education Associate of Science degree in Multimedia Graphic Design Westwood College - Anaheim, CA Skills Coding, Html, Php, Css, Mobile devices, Ui, Ux, Html5, jquery, Usability, Illustrator, Photoshop, Semantic, Optimization, Adobe, Graphic Design, Web Design, Typography Links http://www.pneal.com Additional Information SKILLS:  Expert in responsive design for web and mobile devices, Semantic HTML coding, Expert in high-end, mockup designs, Experienced in UX/UI Development, Proficiently perform optimization usability and accessibility troubleshooting, Expert in Cross browser compatible websites, Expert hand coding HTML & CSS, HTML5 & CSS3, Expert in Photoshop & illustrator, Experience with PHP, Working knowledge of jquery, Attention to detail, Project Management