Business Manager / Data Analyst Business Manager / Data Analyst Richmond, TX I am Canadian Citizen Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Business Manager / Data Analyst Trans-American Inc. - Houston, TX December 2016 to Present Being investor and manager, assist in managing new product lines, pricing existing items and services, marketing business ideas and relationship with existing and new customers. Web Business Consultant Trans-American Supply - Houston, TX March 2011 to November 2016 Analyzing business needs in terms of web presence on Ebay and Amazon. Developing strategies for creating and maintaining lists of products viable for web. Built and managed methodology for receiving orders, shipping products to customers and follow up customer service. Brick&Mortar to Digital Management Model transformation. Lead System Analyst Carreg Solutions / AON Consulting - Toronto, ON January 2006 to July 2010 From meetings with clients to gathering data requiements to preparing application docs and finally managing projects development and delivering them to clients. Clients: Royal Bank of Canada, AT&T, Walmart Canada, CIBC. MS ASP, ASP.net, SQL Server, Data Modelling Software, Access, Visual Basic. Application Developer GE Multilin - Markham, On August 2003 to January 2006 Created and maintained application using MS ASP, Visual Basic and SQL server. Prepared management financial reports and data analysis architecture. Data warehousing and feeding data from global sources for top level management. Programmer Analyst /Application Developer - Web ESX Engineering Inc - Houston, TX October 1999 to September 2002 Participated in the planning and development of Internet and intranet sites using MS ASP, SQL server, Source Safe and HTML, Javascript, Dynamic HTML. Created object-oriented techniques to create reusable objects and functions to reduce repeated tasks and functions which would finally become xCatalyst Platform for building Robust Web content management interactive sites. Client portfolio: Halliburton Inc., Rice University, Reader's Digest Inc, WorldblackBelt. Programmer Analyst /Application Developer - Web eRealty Companies - Houston, TX May 2001 to September 2001 Planned and supervised intranet tools for Marketing Analysis,    Sales Analysis, Customer Trends Analysis, Employee's Information    Management, Content and graphics upload, Task Scheduling and    Task Management. Managed graphics and content for the eRealty web site and intranet.  Undertook application for cumminicating with registered members, reviewing home listings by the company, viewing agents transaction records. Assistant Accountant Hecny Trans Private Ltd - karachi January 1994 to May 1995 Involved in development and maintenance of financial reports    and other reports required by management. Supervised preparation of year end tax returns as required by Income Tax Laws for corporations.   Monitored compliance with International Accounting Standards    for preparation of financial statements for reporting purposes    to parent company in Hong Kong. Accounts Auditor Ford, Rhodes, Robson, Morrow Chartered Accountants - Karachi January 1992 to December 1993 Auditing financial statements, reporting, preparing financial statements and other docs related to financial statements. Education Master's in Master of Science Data Analytics Western Governors University - Richmond, TX January 2019 to June 2019 Bachelor's Degree in BBA in Management Information Systems University of Houston - Houston, TX May 1995 to August 1999 Bachelor's Degree in Bachelor of Commerce in Accounting Karachi University - Karachi May 1990 to May 1992 Skills Quickbook, Forecasting, MS SQL Server (10+ years), ASP ASP.net (10+ years), MS Office (10+ years), Dynamic HTML Javascript (10+ years), Adobe (6 years), Visual Basic (6 years), Sql Server, Business Development, SAS (1 year), R Language (1 year), Python (1 year) Certifications/Licenses SAS Certified Base Programmer for SAS 9 April 2019 to Present SAS Certified Statistical Business Analyst Using SAS 9: Regression and Modeling May 2019 to Present