Software Programmer Software Programmer Software Programmer, Hexagon PPM Huntsville, AL I hope to continue to expand knowledge and experience in web development. I am interested in the  latest ECMAScript features. I follow updates to the browser APIs and regard the browser as a  cross-platform application container. I am excited about the progression of Node.js for server-side  development as well as general computational usage. I am also interested in UI and design - the  interaction layer between user and data. Work Experience Software Programmer Hexagon PPM - Madison, AL January 2018 to April 2019 Worked in Agile (w/ scrum) environment  ? Became familiar with OData specification  ? Became familiar with OAuth 2.0 & OpenID Connect  ? Contributed to odata-client TypeScript libraries for parsing and navigating OData metadata and data.  ? Contributed to a metadata visualizer web application (using odata-client) for exploring odata  metadata and relations between entity types. Displayed metadata as a graph or tree and is  interactive.  ? Contributed to odata-client "showcase" web application for displaying relevant documentation  for a specified odata metadata service endpoint and the odata-client. It displayed metadata  properties as well as retrieved data.  ? Worked with Catavolt (a Hexagon PPM company) on developing their React Native android  application. This included occasional travel to Atlanta, GA to meet with fellow developers.  ? Integrated a 3D model viewer (MCD) into a sample web application. Web Developer Baron Services - Huntsville, AL 2010 to 2017 Worked with Marketing Department for 2.5 years and then transferred to the Software  Development Department as Baron expanded product suite into web-based applications.  ? Developed scripted deployments and migrations for web applications to/from multiple cloud  platforms.  ? Developed and deployed Baron's "Digital Content Manager" which includes:  ? "Baron App Messenger®", a map application that allows users to view iOS/Android app  users, send notifications to users within drawn shapes, and view user-submitted content.  (related to patent: https://www.google.com/patents/US20160073233 )  ? "App Builder", an application that allows users to enter and upload content. It then  generates assets (JSON configuration, images and automatic resizes, etc.) necessary for developers to build and deploy white-label iOS and Android apps for customers. Users  can manage the UI after the app has been deployed.  ? "Widget Builder", an application that allows users to enter and upload content. It then  generates JSON configuration, image assets, and code snippets for customers to deploy on their own websites.  ? "Forecast Builder", an application that allows users to create a "forecast area" on a map  using drawn shapes and create a custom 7-day forecast for that area. The content is  submitted to a custom, internal API which is used by other applications in the Baron  product suite.  ? Two-factor login authentication over SMS using Twilio API integration.  ? Managed/deployed/built servers via Rackspace Cloud and AWS. 12+ servers, 10+ web  properties and applications.  ? Managed contractors as needed for various web applications.  ? Managed GIT repository for dev/staging/production/hotfix deployment of web  applications. Web Developer SirsiDynix - Huntsville, AL 2007 to 2010 Managed approximately 8 websites (intra-, extra-, and public websites).  ? Implemented extensive redesign of customer support website. This included single-sign on integration with discussion forums, wikis, case management portals, Google Mini Search  Appliance, and mailing lists. The site is integrated with customer relationship management  (CRM) databases as well.  ? Played key role in migration to and implementation of Salesforce.com, an enterprise, hosted  CRM solution.  ? Served as primary system administrator for the Salesforce.com CRM system.  ? Managed contractors to implement a custom case management portal for customer support.  This solution was integrated with the customer support website.  ? Provided insight to customer knowledge base managers and sales & marketing with regularly  scheduled metrics delivered from website analytics software.  ? Created Single-sign-on integration with Learning Management System and Customer Support  Website for customer product training.  ? Provided internal, web-based solutions as needed which included custom project timesheet  management interfaces, product key generators.  ? Social Media marketing integration. Supervising Carpenter, Safety Coordinator & Webmaster ARC Design-Build - Huntsville, AL 2003 to 2007 Created website which included lead-funneling contact forms and image portfolio of projects.  ? As an OSHA-Certified Safety Coordinator, managed the safety of all job sites and sub-contractors by providing required safety equipment and information.  ? As Supervising Carpenter, performed duties which included managing and implementing  aspects and tasks of a project necessary for completion, including the employees and subcontractors working on the project. Web Developer Time Domain - Huntsville, AL 2000 to 2003 Worked with marketing and graphic design firms to implement two corporate website redesigns  and a product-specific website.  ? Created customer portal for beta product support. This included knowledge base and live  webcasts and chats with product developers.  ? Created many custom, interactive product demonstration animations and marketing materials  for trade shows and mailings.  ? Managed corporate intranet. Web Developer Appleberry Technologies - Huntsville, AL 1999 to 2000 Document Scanner/Converter ISS Inc. - Huntsville, AL 1998 to 1999 Education None in Computer Science, Philosophy University of Alabama in Huntsville - Huntsville, AL 1998 to 2002 None in Algorithms and German Literature University of Utah - Salt Lake City, UT 2000 Skills TypeScript (3 years), JavaScript (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Git (8 years), PHP (10+ years), Python (1 year), MySQL, jQuery, HTML 5 Patents Systems and methods for communicating with remote users (#US9763040B2) https://patents.google.com/patent/US9763040 2017-09 A messaging system comprises memory for storing contact information and location information for a plurality of users, referred to hereafter as “participants,” who may be dispersed across a wide geographic area. When a user desires to solicit images from a particular geographic region of interest, the user provides inputs indicative of such region, and messaging logic then automatically determines which participants are within the region of interest based on the stored location information. Using the contact information, the messaging logic then initiates communication with the identified participants in order to solicit images of the region of interest. In response, willing participants may capture and return images as may be desired. Thus, the system facilitates the process of finding people at or close to an event of interest, communicating with such people to solicit images of the event or the effects of the event, and then collecting such images. Additional Information Extensive experience with: Comfortable with:  ? Web Development ? Python  ? Git and "Github Flow" ? Ubuntu  ? JavaScript ? Apache  ? Strongly-typed (TypeScript) ? Amazon AWS  ? Server-side (Node.js) ? OData 4.0+  ? Web components and virtual DOM ? OAuth 2.0/OpenID Connect  frameworks (React, Inferno) ? Test-driven development  ? Transpiling/bundling (webpack, ? Agile/Scrum  babel, rollup) ? State machines  ? Native desktop applications ? Immutable/mutable design  (electron, NW.js) ? Progressive web applications  ? Latest ECMAScript features  ? Isomorphic applications Some experience with:  ? Maps (Leaflet, Cesium.js, ? React Native  TMS/WMS) ? Continuous integration  ? PHP ? PostgreSQL  ? RESTful/CRUD APIs ? C++/C#  ? CMS frameworks (Drupal, Wordpress) ? nginx  ? MySQL ? 3D (Unity, BabylonJS, three.js, Blender)  ? HTML/CSS ? Microsoft Azure  ? Unit testing  ? Object-oriented programming  ? Responsive design