Illustrator Illustrator Artist / Web Developer-Designer Houston, TX ? Creative and innovative ideas executed in a professional manner. Professional collaborative attitude and  great people skills.  ? Attended Academy of Art University online in San Francisco, California with a focus in Web Design & New  Media. Work Experience Illustrator WordPress, Magento, MODx March 2016 to Present 03/2016 - Present  Web Design/Development  ? New or existing website design and development for clientele.  ? Customized design and development for image banners / web pages.  ? Applications: CMS (WordPress, Magento, MODx), Adobe Dreamweaver.  ? Programming: HTML, HTML5, CSS & CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript, PHP.  ? Cross browser testing across all electronic devices.  ? Photography and content writing.  ? Search Engine Optimization with keyword research.  ? Graphic design utilizing Adobe Creative Suite products: (CS-CC / Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Fireworks  and Adobe Acrobat - Brochures, Flyers, Business Cards, Logos, Web Page Banners.  ? Clientele website maintenance as needed.    Art Educator  ? Conduct Fine Art Instructions for students based on semester Curriculum for grades PreK -3rdt  ? Semester curriculum development  ? Class materials utilized: Watercolors, Pastels, Acrylics, Canvas, Crayons, Markers, Ink, and found materials.  ? Painting party host, providing public and private Art Instruction, both children and adult groups at 2 and 3 hour  sessions.  ? Commissioned Artist / Exhibitor  ? Yearly volunteer of National Art Festivals held in Houston and The Woodlands, Texas. Digital Operations Manager Exclusive Furniture - Houston, TX April 2018 to December 2018 Principle Accountabilities:  ? Lead and Manage the Digital Department company's main and mini websites. Manage and distribute  assignments to the department's team and ensure all tasks have met required deadlines with complete  accuracy.  ? Company's social media platforms management for daily content posting and engagement.  ? Google Analytics management and reconciliation with third party digital marketing team.  ? Ensure excellent customer service within the department to benefit the overall company's brand and it's high  quality of service.  ? Website layout redesign with implementation of modern UI / UX best practices.  Programming languages: HTML5, CSS3, Javascript  Graphic Design: Adobe Creative Cloud Master Suite UX/UI Designer - Developer American Airlines, TX July 2017 to December 2017 Principle Accountabilities: Website refresh American Airlines:Convert wireframes utilizing UI / UX best practices for static and dynamic page design & development.  Programming languages: HTML5, CSS3, Javascript  Graphic Design: Adobe CS5 (Photoshop & Illustrator)  Agile platform development stages    Web Developer & Designer / Artist- Educator, Houston, TX  Independent Director of Digital Marketing CraneWorks, Inc - Houston, TX October 2014 to March 2016 Principal Accountabilities:  ? Direct the design, development and implementation of a full scale marketing plan that consistently executes  internal and external global marketing communications programs including company website management  and maintenance within CMS platform MODx. Development, editing and publishing web page content, maintaining consistency with accuracy in folder/file structures.  ? Management of social site presence with content writing and publishing.  ? Responsible for designing, developing, and implementing responsive web pages across multiple platforms.  ? Contributed to design aspects of the UI/UX strategy, and UI requirements.  ? Independently designed Mock-ups, developed and published web pages.  ? Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards.  ? Oversee global communication campaigns and advertising programs are targeted to reaching sales.  ? Design and coordinate the appearance of all organization print, photography and electronic material such as Brochures, Letterhead, updates to company logo, Email Marketing, etc.  ? Recommend and implement strategies for Pay per Click campaign and Search Engine Optimization.  ? Schedule and present monthly marketing meetings and manage all media contacts.  ? Ensure article links, new web content and press releases are published to company's website and social  media sites regularly. WEB/UI/UX DEVELOPER/DESIGNER Superior Energy Services, Inc - Houston, TX September 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Web Development Projects: Day-to-day responsibility of Responsive front-end website design/  development and publishing utilizing development software for intranet; Visual Studio 2012, in ASP and ASP.Net. Website development & design with use of code scripting languages HTML5, CSS3, and  JavaScript for company's internet sites. Website maintenance as needed.  ? Design, development and upgrade of custom web applications as needed using CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, , and responsive/mobile design  ? Digital image and graphics editing and posting using Photoshop and Illustrator CS5.  ? Audio and video creation and posting.  ? Graphic Design Projects: Software: Adobe CS5 - Illustrator, Photoshop, InDesign, Adobe Acrobat Pro  XI; Creating / Editing vector images for Internal /External Clientele web sites. Creates email  announcements for company staff.  ? Sharepoint 2010 Projects: SharePoint 2010 Front-end customization development of Master-Pages and Calendars for company's portal.  ? Mobile Website Project: Responsive, customized design and development of subsidiary mobile website  with use of jQuery Mobile, HTML5, CSS3, Adobe Photoshop CS6.  SEO: Meta title and description optimizations for company and subsidiary websites.  ? Google Analytics Reporting: Provides quarterly reporting of Analytics Page and Event tracking.  Maintains Google Analytic tracking code integration updates and best practices. Reconcile with Marketing  Department on analytic statistics.  ? Meet deadlines and work independently in fast paced environment WEB MASTER Houston Methodist Hospital - Houston, TX June 2013 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Front-end development / editing using scripting / code languages; HTML and CSS. Back-end  development usage of ASP, HTM for manual changes on company's intranet site. Web page editor;  Dreamweaver CS3.  ? Design UI comps and future website ideas in Photoshop, and then create prototypes for further  engagement.  ? Independently designed, developed and published mock-up web pages using Dreamweaver, HTML5/XHTML and CSS/CSS3.  ? Help define user interaction  ? Implement responsive design  ? Trained support staff in creating SharePoint webpages utilizing HTML/CSS markup and SharePoint 2010.  ? Content and document management conducted through daily usage of SharePoint 2010 software.  Customer communication to include; Executive Directors, Vice President, and Department Management of project updates pertaining to various real estate ownership within intranet site. WEB ADMINISTRATOR SCI - Houston, TX November 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Oversee day-to-day management of the company's portal, from web development to maintenance of company's intranet and internet.  ? Design to software, including Adobe Creative Suite4 of products, specifically Acrobat 9, Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, and Flash / ActionScript 2.0-3.0. Development /Editing of HTML 4.01, CSS  JavaScript. JQuery, SharePoint 2010.  ? Generate and manipulate graphic images, animations, sound, text and video into required programs.  ? Develop and publish web page content and website maintenance. Assure quality control and filing  integrity of web pages.  ? Provide internal and external customer support and ongoing maintenance to ensure web services and programs function securely and efficiently.  ? Management and communication with team members, account managers / executives, graphic designers  and marketing specialists to meet tight deadlines.    Royal Teacup Puppies Houston, TX  WEB DEVELOPER/DESIGNER (Volunteer)    11/2011 - 04/2012    Responsibilities:  ? Graphic Design: Wireframe production "Mockingbird" with Photoshop CS5 mock-up design completions  for website development and publishing.  ? Web Design: User Interface / Web Page Layout Designs with use of Adobe Illustrator/Photoshop CS5  software products.  ? Web Development Front/Back-End: HTML/CSS/PHP WordPress with MySQL database development  ? Web site Maintenance: Provide ongoing website maintenance to include: new website layout designs  and/or edits. WEB DESIGN LEAD COORDINATOR Digital Labz - Houston, TX November 2010 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Graphic Design Projects: Logo Design, Web Page Design, Website Consulting via Phone/Client  location or Office Visit, Client consulting for all revisions to projects, Completed Revisions upon client (s)  request  ? Web Design Projects: Website Information Architecture: Wireframe Design (Tool - Mockingbird, MockFlow), Front and Back-end website programming language usage:  XHTML/HTML/CSS/PHP/JAVASCRIPTING/FLASH/ACTIONSCRIPT; Web Page Population:  Adding/Editing Web Page Content for population to live site; Content Management System Webpage  Coding/Population: WordPress/MODx; Informed Client/Management project status; Google Analytics/Stat  Counter Integration to all client web design projects  ? New/Existing Client Website Consulting: Consistent communication with new/existing client website  projects; conducting client meetings; updating client with project status  ? Internet Marketing Consulting: SEO Client Consulting; PPC Client Consulting    ? Sales: Web Design Sales; Graphic Design Sales; Internet Marketing Sales; Consulting includes: Web  Design/Internet Marketing via phone or office meeting  ? PPC Management: Client Campaign Setup; Keyword Research; Google Analytics Campaign(s)  Analysis/Management; Client PPC Consulting    ? SEO: On Page Website Optimization; Off Page Website Optimization; Meta Title Optimization; Link  Building; Blog Posting; WordPress/Social Media Sites; Social Media Site Customization; Blog Page  Customization  ? Project Management: Assigning SEO Projects to Employees includes: Link-Building/Blog  Posts/Directory Submissions/Article Writing for Company SEO Clientele; Assigning Graphic/ Web Design  Projects to Designers/Programmers; Daily communication with Designers/Programmers; Over-seeing all  Web Design/Marketing Projects; Content Writer Management; Ensured all Projects met Deadlines;  Informed client on project status; Project Creation/Closing out Projects upon completion through Project  Management software "Basecamp"  ? Other assigned duties as directed by management: Company Calendar Management "Google  Documents" - Schedule meetings at client's location or Company location; Send/Collect Company mail;  Office Supply Ordering/Purchasing; Company Billing System Management for New/Existing Clientele;  Office Cleaning/Organizing; All other duties as directed by company management FINE ARTS INSTRUCTOR City Artworks - Houston, TX October 2009 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Conducted Fine Art Instructions for students based on semester Curriculum from grades 3rd-5th  ? Created assignments using various mediums: Acrylics, Watercolors, Oils, India ink, Chalk and Pastels  ? Conducted semester ending art exhibition and award ceremonies for students  ? Communicated class progress by reports to City Artworks Staff members and Executive Directors.    OS2S, Humble, TX Contractor February 2010 to September 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Created custom shapes and objects, and used textures to recreate vector images from provided  photographs with use of Wireframe designs (Mockingbird).  ? Completed elevations, plan views, site plans, photo renderings, and or the whole site survey. Works  assigned projects using Hot Door CAD tools and Illustrator version CS3.  ? Works in direct communication/coordination with other team members throughout the project WEB /GRAPHIC DESIGNER TDS - Houston, TX July 2009 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Graphic Creations (Company Marketing Materials: Brochures, Newsletter, Catalog graphics, Web Pages)  Concept to Completion with use of Adobe CS3 Products - Wireframe Tool (Mocking Bird) InDesign, Illustrator, Photoshop.  ? Flash CS3 slide creations for company client presentations.  ? Other Company duties: Project Management Material preparations with use of Microsoft  Word/PowerPoint  ? TDS company web site layout revisions/maintenance: Graphics/photo placement/removal, Front-End  Development: HTML/CSS/PHP/JavaScript/XML coding/analysis with use of Dreamweaver editing  program, CS3 Photoshop and Illustrator. SALES ASSOCIATE/FRAMER Aaron Brothers Art & Framing - Houston, TX November 2008 to July 2009 WEB/GRAPHIC DESIGNER SOUTHEAST MEDIA INC - Houston, TX February 2008 to September 2008 Responsibilities:  ? Graphics/Layout production with use of Adobe CS3 InDesign  ? Research/Design & content recommendations e-marketing  ? Assisted staff members with company web site development/maintenance and marketing purposes:  Front-End Programming Languages: HTML/CSS/DHTML, JavaScript/ coding  ? Large Format- Layout Design, typesetting, banner hemming, cutting, weeding, and fabricating signs Contractor ONE STOP PRINT SHOP - Houston, TX August 2007 to February 2008 Responsibilities:  ? Typesetting-Research-Print-and redesigning of monthly Newsletter, Brochures, Logos, Business Cards, Flyers, Web Pages with use of Mac G5/PC, Mockingbird - Wireframe Tool. Education Web Design Academy of Art University - San Francisco, CA Penn Foster College - Scranton, PA Pontiac Central High School Pontiac Skills Photoshop, Adobe, Graphic Design, Illustrator, After Effects