Frontend Engineer Frontend Engineer Frontend Engineer Portland, OR I've led/contributed to the front-end development of sites for software developers, IT, sales, and marketing professionals, and consumers at Apple, IBM, Intel, McAfee, and Nike. My career has given me the opportunity to collaborate with and learn from deeply talented back-end, content, database, design, front-end, network, quality, UI, and UX colleagues.  My key competencies include:  • HTML 5, CSS, SASS, LESS,  • JavaScript, Vue.js, Angular, JQuery  • Adobe Suite skills, including Photoshop, Illustrator, and Flash  • Customer support and project management    • XML, XML Schema, and XSLT  • Accessibility, including WAI-ARIA  • WebKit animations  • Digital video editing  • Subversion, Git, Idea IntelliJ, Eclipse, Atom Work Experience Frontend Engineer Inavero - Portland, OR October 2017 to November 2018 Front-end developer for suite of applications used for managing industry surveys and email notifications.  • Worked in Vue.js, JavaScript, CSS, and other libraries to craft an event calendar for organizing events and an event schedule to organize and initiate survey tasks, integrating both with back-end services.  • Worked in the Foundation framework and Vue.js to create a responsive mobile-first industry-based pricing calculator for services.  • Had some exposure to Jinja, Play-frameworks, and Java. Senior Front-End Engineer Rainnet Systems, Inc - Lake Oswego, OR September 2016 to March 2017 Sole UI developer for next generation network automation technology application.  • Used OmniGraffle to create UI architectural wireframes based on interviews with network engineers.  • Used Photoshop and Illustrator to create production graphics.  • Used Keylines, Highcharts, Bootstrap 4, and SASS to create functional mock-ups and prototypes. Freelance Web Developer Nike - Beaverton, OR March 2015 to May 2016 Front-end Web developer for Nike Assort Visual application, developing internal applications for Nike sales operations. Worked almost exclusively within the Angular application framework. Completed a variety of projects within an Agile process. Also assisted with SCSS. Major accomplishments:  • Created alerts notification interface, developing front end code to manage alerts and communicate with back-end services.  • Created interface to manage comparison of plan data to sales metric data, including forecast, metric summary, month statements, and grid displays.  • Worked on the interface to manage allocation information.  • Developed numerous projects in the original AV application, Canvas display, Marketplace and Sales Assortment Plan areas.  • Created unit tests for code coverage and fixed bugs as needed. Freelance Web Author Intel - Hillsboro, OR August 2014 to November 2014 Front-end Web content migration project to update existing materials to responsive design framework, working primarily in Adobe Experience Manager. Freelance Web Developer Nike - Beaverton, OR September 2013 to June 2014 Front-end/user interface developer for Nike Brand Development, working on internal applications for Nike business operations. Also assisted Brand Support with debugging and image issues as needed. Major accomplishments:  • Developed the front-end for a Nike-branded Aspera dropbox client by using SVG, JQuery, Ajax, and JSON.  • Created the front-end for Enable Librarian functionality within the Nike BNX application.  • Addressed critical bugs and functional changes to the Make It Real application after the application was delivered to Nike from the development vendor.  • Recommended and helped establish new development process and standards, created mockups and comps, and provided demonstrations and tool evaluations as needed. Freelance Web Developer McAfee - Portland, OR April 2013 to June 2013 Front-end developer for a McAfee application, working from wireframes provided by the McAfee Design Studio team. Brought in to help the core team achieve their beta milestone.  • Created functional widgets that tied into the business layer by using an extended version of the YUI JavaScript library, the LESS CSS framework, and HTML 5 with MS Visual Studio.  • Corrected Section 508 and WCAG 2.0 accessibility deficiencies.  • Updated unit tests by using CoffeeScript and Jasmine.  • Adapted functional tests by using CoffeeScript and Python.  • Created onboarding documentation for new hires. Freelance Web Developer Apple - San Jose, CA September 2011 to November 2012 Front-end developer in LEVEL Studios' (now Rosetta's) Apple team, working on www.apple.com, Mac applications, and WebKit animations for iOS.  • Created pixel-perfect Web pages for multiple Apple departments, matching Photoshop comps to exact MarCom standards.  • Created Web-based markup for principal Apple Mac and iOS applications.  • Produced WebKit animations for iOS.  • Produced dynamic content for events and shows.  • Helped maintain www.apple.com through content updates, troubleshooting, bug fixes, and image updates, including updates for Retina displays.  • Created project prototypes for demonstration and review.  IBM, San Jose, California Front-End Web Developer/Accessibility Lead IBM developerWorks January 2009 to February 2011 Online Course Developer/Content Publication Production Lead, IC Development IBM, Silicon Valley Labs - Silicon Valley, CA March 2003 to January 2009 Principal front-end Web developer for My developerWorks, IBM's developer-focused professional networking site. Other roles included accessibility lead contributing to network security oversight, course developer specializing in multimedia, and lead production specialist for weekly content publications.  • Created functional mock-ups from wireframes, relying heavily on CSS and JQuery to conform the UI.  • Ensured adherence to Section 508 Accessibility Standards by running bimonthly scans, reporting results, and working with teams to resolve failures.  • Helped uncover, report, and resolve network security failures.  • Converted and published documents and articles into XML for weekly content publication.  • Produced modular multimedia assets using Flash ActionScript 2.0 and XML.  • Produced individual graphic components for online courseware.  • Converted hundreds of legacy documents and pages from HTML into XML. Web-Based Production Lead/Production Manager Rational Software - Cupertino, CA September 2000 to February 2003 Lead developer for the User Experience design team, including one year as production manager. Other roles included internationalization lead and ClearQuest DBA. Web-Based Course Developer/Project Lead The Webb Group - San Jose, CA December 1999 to September 2000 Project lead for four Web developers and graphic designers. Also evaluated, mentored, and trained junior developers.    LANGUAGES and STANDARDS  • HTML/XHTML  • CSS, SASS, LESS  • JavaScript, Angular, JQuery    • ActionScript  • Lingo  • XML, XSLT, XML Schema    • UNICODE  • Section 508  • WAI-ARIA    TOOLS  • BBEdit/Homesite/UltraEdit  • Photoshop/ImageReady  • Illustrator  • Flash/LiveMotion    • Firebug/Tidy/WebKing  • XML Spy/oXygen  • JAWS  • Premiere/Final Cut/iMovie    • ClearCase/ClearQuest  • Acrobat, AEM  • Idea IntelliJ  • Subversion, Github Education Bachelor of Arts in History University of California Santa Cruz - Santa Cruz, CA 1998 Certificate in Digital Imaging University of California 1998 Skills Front End, Angular, Javascript, UI, React