Program Manager Program Manager IT Solution & Delivery Consulting | Client Relationship Management | Program/Project Management | IT Leader Pittsburgh, PA Experienced and personable information technology leader with a Master’s degree in Information Technology and a certified Project Management Professional – PMP. 20 years of IT experience. Emphasis on developing partnership relationships with senior level client personnel, planning & guiding large complex projects, IT solution identification, program/project management, client relationship management, global training and support, project strategy, resource management and delivering high-quality projects.     Looking to continue my successful career in a dynamic and innovative environment, enhancing my focus on the unique needs of customers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Program Manager GLOBAL TEL LINK February 2018 to June 2019 • Coordinated and controlled all project tasks, timelines, issues and risks from the start to go live and transition to support.   • Successfully manage the relationship with the client and all stakeholders.  • Regularly communicate program status to executive leadership.  • PM Tools: MS Project, Google spreadsheets, Smartsheet, Poets (GTL’s CRM), Salesforce (novice).  • Lead 4+ project teams on multiple projects and work streams with the ultimate responsibility of meeting technical and contractual commitments.  • Primary point of contact for 6+ customers and the voice of the organization on projects.  • Conduit for raising issues within projects to senior management for resolution.  • Methodologies: Waterfall and Waterfall Scrum Hybrid.  • Ensure resource availability and allocation.  • Provide recognition and maintain morale and motivation of team members. Project Manager PNC Bank 2015 to 2016 PNC is a world known financial institution headquartered in Pittsburgh PA. My role as a project manager was to oversee application system developments for the bank’s anti-money laundering, governance risk and compliance, and government reporting applications.   • Interpret customer and financial regulation requirements into a work breakdown structure to be translated into a clear concise project plan for application development.  • Perform resource management of 20+ onshore and offshore resources on projects.   • Monitor and control project plans during implementation to ensure the project is on time and under budget.   • Maintain communication between all stakeholders via regularly scheduled meetings, status updates and reporting.   • Methodologies: Waterfall  • PM Tools: MS Project, Clarity and MS Excel.  Web Project Manager ANSYS Inc 2008 to 2015 • Direct technical projects from beginning to end using PMP best practices.   • Evaluate business issues/solutions with partners to define and implement technical solutions.   • Maintain project expectations by communicating with a global network of stakeholders.   • Manage and prioritize change requests by identifying pros, cons and risk assessments against the scope, timeline and project budget.   • Methodologies: Waterfall and Waterfall Scrum Hybrid.   • PM Tools: Google spreadsheets, Smartsheet.   Projects at ANSYS Inc.:  • Implementation of NEW Sales Portal on SAVO platform.   • Data Center Relocation of 800+ pieces of business critical hardware and equipment to a new data center using PMP best practices.  • New public website  • ANSYS.com implementation on OpenText infrastructure that supported English and other European Languages.  • Planned and executed global training plan for marketing teams to use OpenText content management system.  • Plan and implemented with china marketing team the launch ANSYS China website on the OpenText infrastructure.  • Implementation of new site analytic solution on public and customer facing websites.   • Coordinated the training and roll out of new global email marketing solution.  • Target audience setup plan in ANSYS’s email marketing solution and designed global roll out and training plan.  • Web Services Team Triage breakdown, request routing identification and implementation into the ANSYS Help Desk System. Web Developer/PM United Way of Allegheny County 2005 to 2008 • Manage the public website for highly visible non-profit agency reaching a community  • constituency exceeding 50,000 donors and 30 million in donations in a year.  • Collaborate with the marketing team and campaign managers (external customers) to develop an Ecommerce solution for online donation.  • Coordinate and manage tasks for contractors and 3rd party vendors during projects. Operations/Systems Analyst U.S. Steel Corp 1999 to 2005 • Mainframe programmer using TSO/ISPF, Panvalet COBOL and JCL.  • Monitor global mainframe processing, networks, servers and other computer operation  • functions.  • Create and execute corrective actions to resolve minor and critical operational issues. Education MS in MIS Robert Morris University BA in IS University of Pittsburgh Industrial Manufacturing Slippery Rock University Skills Project Management, Program Management, PMP, PMI Certifications/Licenses PMP