Realtor Realtor Sr. Business Analyst Edwardsville, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Realtor REMax Alliance - Edwardsville, IL May 2014 to Present • Create Comparative Market Analysis for both listing appointments (sellers) as well as for buyers  • Fill out contracts  • Negotiate offers, inspection responses and provide meaningful communication to clients  • Self prioritize to fit in all appointments  • Track all expenses using Excel spreadsheet Web Developer Northrop Grumman - St. Louis, MO September 2010 to May 2014 • Scrum master for project to automate ID badge access functionality.  • Java development for stand alone batch executions utilizing java API and internal USPS application libraries similar to Dynamic Data Objects for Java (TM).  • Utilization of Oracle 9-11 working with SQL packages, procedures and functions to support Oracle Applications Server - included HTML5 and javascript in an AJAX enabled environment.  • Upgraded current application from Cold Fusion 5 to Cold Fusion 9. Tasks included removing deprecated tags and the testing of the entire application to make sure all functionality was valid.  • Updated Oracle database tables via SQL statements created using Excel with data supplied spreadsheet from customer  • Added new functionality using Cold Fusion to store the inventory counts of USPS equipment. This included a complete rewrite of the application after initial requirements were not clearly defined.  • Coordinated multiple applications programming language upgrade, oracle database upgrade, and Linux migration efforts. Update project plan, coordinate schedules of all involved personnel and make sure process was documented properly according to USPS standards. Senior Software Engineer CDO Technologies - O'Fallon, IL July 2004 to April 2010 • Managed and trained a team of employees in daily job responsibilities  • Developed web-based applications using Cold Fusion MX which gathers data generated by hand-held scanners used to inventory equipment.  • Performed GAP analysis of business rules, process flows, and user administration.  • Ensured compliance with United States Air Force defined policies.  • Process Team member with responsibility for managing system change requests.  • Implemented change requests, versions, and addendums to centralized repository of process documents.  • Collected data from customers to determine feasibility of inventory reports.  • Wrote SQL queries in MS SQL Server for data manipulations. Sr. Business Analyst Union Pacific Technologies - Richmond Heights, MO September 1990 to June 2004 Richmond Heights, MO (Sep 1990-Jun 2004)    • Coordinated the processing of all electronic event messages (waybills, 417s, CLMs, 214s) used as input for shipment management tracking system. Created/Processed incoming waybills to begin the shipment life cycle.  • Managed multiple accounts to derive and execute action plans, meeting deadlines and SOP's.  • Set performance standards, monitored performance, recommended improvements and ensured compliance.  • Created data work flow diagrams, screen mock-ups, conversion requirements, and implementation/test plans.  • Organized personnel, developed lead system level stress tests and communicated project timeline updates to customers.  • Spearheaded process improvement and cost saving initiatives by using customer supplied Excel spreadsheet to create Oracle scripts to update/input eta generating data into database.    Technical:  OS/MVS MS Office(Excel, Word, Access, PowerPoint)  MS/DOS SQL - PL/SQL  Windows 98/2000/NT/XP MS SQL-SERVER  HTML  Cold Fusion  Oracle /Toad /SQL Developer  Oracle Developer 2000  XML/ XML Spy  Java  Javascript  EDI  COBOL  UNIX/LINUX  ASP .Net Education BS in Computer Management Eastern Illinois University - Charleston, IL 1990 Skills Microsoft Office, Word, Powerpoint