Technical Support Technical Support Technical Support - Kelly Services Louisburg, NC Work Experience Technical Support Kelly Services March 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Technical support of Apple iMac and iOS devices Web Developer TakingGrades.com August 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  • Maintain WordPress website  • WooCommerce Shopping cart  • Troubleshoot problem areas for solutions  • Proofreading all pages for errors and consistency.    Sales: Trig Web Design April 2011 - 2012  Responsibilities:  • Meet with clients to establish requirements.  • Write Proposals to ensure clients of the price of their website.  • Write contracts for clients that accept bid price through proposals. Office Manager Claws to Paws Pet Services May 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  • Create client charts per designation and verify insurance.  • Maintain schedule of clients  • Make reminder calls or emails  • Create and maintain spreadsheets for reports  • Answer phones  • Send cards and letters  • Bank deposits and billing Owner Claws to Paws Pet Services - Raleigh, NC December 2005 to Present Responsibilities:  • Insure the safety and care of client's pets and home. Customer Service Rep Claws to Paws Pet Services November 2011 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Support Smart Phones data features and connectivity  • Answer incoming calls from customers  • Escalate hardware or software issues  • Provide excellent customer service in a timely manner Project Manager 123triad.com June 2010 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Meet with clients to establish requirements.  • Insured the Web Design/Builders team in India understands the requirements the client was requesting on their web sites.  • Review layouts to insure they fill requirements  • Proof read all content for errors  • Give feedback to clients on web design if what they are requesting doesn't fit to site.  • Sales - Add on products such as hosting.  • Training on Word Press, Text Editor, Photo Gallery, and shopping carts/e-commerce. Business Manager Claws to Paws Pet Services July 2009 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • IT support including virus removal, data recovery, database data entry, and support.  • Business advertising and marketing (online and print).  • Create quotes, estimates, work orders, invoices, order parts, and tender payments.  • Bookkeeping duties including bank deposits, credit card/debit card receipts, paying company bills and inventory control.  • General cleaning of shop.    TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE AND SKILLS Project Manager Intelligent Community November 2008 to April 2009 • Volunteer for a work at home company  • Data entry of clients information  • Ensure work is completed by other workers Web Developer, Email Data Source EDS September 2008 to December 2008 Responsibilities:  • Updated EDS website  • Updated database with companies Web Administrator Parker-Lowe & Associates - Washington, NC November 2007 to February 2008 Responsibilities:  • Updated Register of Deeds HTML web sites for 12 counties.  • Customer Support for Web sites. Web Production Lead Sage Solutions, Inc August 2006 to June 2007 Responsibilities:  • Web Project lead for IBM System i in RTP  • Insured the Web Builders team in Brazil understood the requirements the client was requesting on their web sites.  • Coordinated with EMEA countries to insure timely translations of new content.  • Proof read all content for errors  Technologies: Teamsite (Interwoven), HTML, XML, Flash Web Developer Clean Design - Durham, NC July 2006 to August 2006 Responsibilities:  • Redesign of the John Deere Watah web site within the teamsite (Interwoven) environment.  • Proof read all content for errors  Technologies: Teamsite (Interwoven) Free Lance Web Developer/Designer Beachead Technologies - Raleigh, NC 2006 to May 2006 Responsibilities:  • Convert html to xml for Spectrum IEEE, an online and print technology magazine.  • Maintain Blogs and remove spam.  Selected Achievements:  • Completed articles and graphic images for 1500 pages in 3 ½ weeks.  • Cleaned 1500 spam from Blogs in 3 hours.  Technologies: HTML, XML Web Developer/Designer GlaxoSmithKline - Research Triangle Park, NC February 2006 to March 2006 Responsibilities  • Developed the layout for an ergonomics community web site using Plumtree.  • Proof read all content for errors  Selected Achievements:  • Learned Plumtree development in three days.  • Wrote a quick start manual for easier, quicker usage of the system for new employees.  Technologies: Plumtree Web Developer IBM 1999 to 2005 Responsibilities:  • Maintained and produced new pages for 4 websites, 3 external (HTML, XHTML, and Linux content management system) and 1 intranet (xml and PHP on Linux) website.  • Proof read all content for errors  • Documented all changes.  • Ensured accessibility and security for external sites.  • Coordinated with clients, content editors, and graphic artists.  • Documented processes for each site.  • Worked with HTML, JavaScript, PHP, Teamsite, and Linux content management system.  Selected Achievements  • Rescued a last minute entry into an expo. Ensured registration and participation by assembling content and implementing the registration site within 3 hours. Convinced another department to waive its 5 day requirement and begin taking registrations the next day.  • Troubleshot problem with Linux Content Management System that prevented data entry people from posting a revenue-generating event. Quickly discovered that the error was in input, corrected it, and published the page.  • Corrected failure of Linux Content Management system affecting 30 departments. Discovered that the server had not been set up to warn users of password expiration. Reset the password and set up the email function to give 14 days notice of password change.  • Took the initiative to redesign and update content of the external Linux software website, which had not been changed for 3-4 months. Located content manager who appointed a new site owner.  • Upgraded the internal Linux site to get a more up-to-date design at a less expensive rate than previous while still maintaining open source operating system. Researched and tested open source alternatives. Selected PHP.  • Redesigned the z Series website to look and feel based on corporate requirements. Used include files to reduce workload in updating uniform resources. Reduced costs of updates.  • Ensured that upgrades of operating systems did not interfere with the function of the content management system. Tested every function of the system after each upgrade.  • Ensured compliance of accessibility by all visually or hearing impaired persons as required by law for all internal and external websites. All sites passed audit review.  Technologies: Linux Content Management System, HTML, XML, PHP, Javascript, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, WinCVS. Translation Coordinator IBM 1996 to 1999 Responsibilities:  • Manager of translation projects for 12 EMEA countries for testing of the newest ThinkPad.  • Wrote test scripts.  • Provided technical support.  • Ensured all translations were included in the final image.  • Coordinated logistics for collecting and shipping files to countries for translation.  • Maintained schedules for the work of 12 people.  Selected Achievements:  • Reduced testing time for 3 models from 12 to 3 days. Saved travel and lodging costs for testers. Created test scripts that sped up the schedule. Created and implemented a standard policy that all images would be tested prior to the translation schedule using test scripts.  Technologies: HTML Associate Systems Requirements Coordinator IBM 1995 to 1996 Responsibilities:  • Created a help center webpage based library of ThinkPad solutions.  • Did graphic design.  • Entered page images into Access database.  • Entered text into DB2.  Selected Achievements:  • Awarded a bonus for creating the help center webpage before deadline.  Technologies: MS Access, DB2, Photoshop Floor Leader Survey Group 1993 to 1995 Responsibilities  • Supervised 12 surveyors.  • Assigned workload.  • Created charts for hit ratios of customers contacted.  Selected Achievements:  • Worked with programmers to develop a new survey tool that increased the number of customers contacted. Achieved the 30% goal in customer satisfaction surveys.  Technologies: DB2 SQL Query    1137 Hart Rd Louisburg, NC 27549 ? 919-417-6851 ? lld701@yahoo.com    OFFICE/BUSINESS EXPERIENCE AND SKILLS Education Bachelors of Business Management (No degree) in Business Management Kaplan University AA Business Axia College, (University of Phoenix) - Phoenix, AZ Certificate in HTML Wake Technical Community College - Raleigh, NC Skills Call Center, Customer Service, Customer Support, Tech Support, MAC