IT SPECIALIST (APPLICATIONS SOFTWARE) IT SPECIALIST (APPLICATIONS SOFTWARE) IT SPECIALIST (APPLICATIONS SOFTWARE) - Federal Aviation Administration Oklahoma City, OK Professional, detail-oriented application developer motivated to take on new challenges. Work Experience IT SPECIALIST (APPLICATIONS SOFTWARE) Federal Aviation Administration - Oklahoma City, OK August 2009 to Present • Evaluated, designed, implemented and modified database and web applications.  • Implemented policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  • Delivered complex business requirements without any issues as a result of troubleshooting and extensive oversight.  • Cultivated and maintained effective working relationships with other developers and members of various teams.  • Streamlined, enhanced and created scripts and processes for data integration and maintenance.  • Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders.  • Trained junior members of team regarding application and troubleshooting of system  processes.  • Developed work-flow charts and diagrams to ensure production team compliance with client  deadlines.  • Effective troubleshooting skill of complex and technical issues within reasonable time-frame.  • Proposed technical feasibility solutions for new functional designs and suggested options for performance improvement of technical objects.  • Utilized such technologies as ASP.NET, VB.net, C#, HTML5, JavaScript, JSON, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL  Server and Oracle to develop new applications.  • Collaborated with clients from concept through final delivery of product or service. Web Application Developer Chickasaw Nation Industries - Oklahoma City, OK June 2007 to August 2009 • Utilized programming capabilities in Oracle Forms, PL/SQL and JavaScript and other libraries to convert application from client to web application.  • Built and styled websites and transitioned an old site into a friendly version.  • Optimized web assets for speed and performance.  • Troubleshooting of technical issues to solve problems within system processes.  • Responsible for rewriting and optimizing an Oracle Forms client-side application to a web  based. Software Application Developer & IT Support Precision Parts & Re-Manufacturing - Oklahoma City, OK March 2003 to June 2007 Worked directly with various business groups to achieve creative IT solutions for each  department.  • Analyzed, Verified data integrity and accuracy within each application.  • Performed initial client assessment and analysis to begin research process. Developed new  process for production work stoppage which resulted in marked performance improvements.  • Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative  maintenance and upgrades.  • Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  • Extensive developing experiences utilizing VB, Oracle Forms, Oracle Reports, SQL, PL/SQL, VBScript, and JScript. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Information Systems Management University of Phoenix - Oklahoma City, OK 2002 Skills Oracle, Oracle forms, Pl/sql, Sql, C#, Html, Javascript, Vb.net, Vbscript, Visual basic, Asp, Asp.net, Soa, jquery, Maintenance, Mock-ups, Problem resolution Additional Information Skills  • Research, analysis, problem resolution, • Solution mock-ups  system debugging/troubleshooting skills • SQL, Oracle PL/SQL, Oracle Forms & Reports,  • Website maintenance Oracle 8i DBA Certified, ASP.Net, ASP  • Agile methodology Classic, C#, Visual Basic, VB.net, HTML,  JavaScript, JQuery, VBScript, Toad, Visual  Studio, Oracle JDeveloper, SOA