Ecommerce Web Developer Ecommerce <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Ecommerce Web Developer - Allied Electronics & Automation Rhome, TX I enjoy working where I can combine my Engineering background and Programming experience to innovate solutions for complex business problems. Work Experience Ecommerce Web Developer Allied Electronics & Automation - Fort Worth, TX November 2017 to Present Converted Web Forms Payment Method page to responsive cross-browser compatible MVC  layout for use by national and international clients.  ? Created Adapter Interfaces for working with legacy payment processing code  ? Developed .Net Core web api based Inventory Service with Asynchronous endpoints  ? Interfaced with SAP services to provide new customer Account Creation and Tax Certificate  upload capability to facilitate one time customer conversion from online orders  ? Updated MVC and Webforms code to allow Canadian customers to use EProcurement Sr. Systems Developer II BNSF Railway - Fort Worth, TX June 2015 to November 2017 Developed and Maintained Mission Critical Positive Train Control (PTC) Back Office  Multithreaded services using C# and .NET technologies  ? Architected Enterprise Level .NET to Websphere MQ Interface for reading and writing  Mainframe messages  ? Coordinated with GE Trip Optimizer team to provide near real time socket based messaging  and software integration testing Consultant Improving Enterprises at Six Flags Corporate Headquarters - Arlington, TX May 2014 to June 2015 Developed Web API and Windows Services backed by Oracle and MSSQL databases for use  at theme parks across the nation  ? Designed responsive administration interfaces for managing time sheet corrections using  .NET MVC Web pages combined with Knockout and Angular JavaScript Libraries and Massive  ORM  ? Applied TDD to all application layers using NUnit for server-side testing, QUnit and Jasmine  on the client-side and tSQLt for database unit testing Engineering Consultant Integritalent at Young Presidents' Organization - Irving, TX November 2013 to April 2014 Collaborated with Pariveda consultants in an Agile, Test Driven Development environment at Young Presidents Organization (http://www.ypo.org/) to enhance their member website  ? Developed proof of concept Mass Transit Service Bus to MSMQ email service  ? Improved chapter administrator functionality for event management and metric reporting  ? Used Specification Pattern with Entity Framework to filter CRM records for chapter pages Software Engineer, Emerging Technologies Freedom Data Services - Fort Worth, TX May 2008 to November 2013 Led Middle-Tier development of Surescripts 10.6 upgrade to work with 6 different pharmacy  software platforms across the nation  ? Designed MVC driven "Pharmacy Connect" Administrative site using HTML 5 and CSS 3  ? Created and maintained SSRS reports related to call center activity  ? Architected WCF Web Service interface to Twilio to handle Voice, Text and Email  communications including a call-in refill system Education B.S. in Mechanical Engineering Colorado State University - Fort Collins, CO December 2002 Skills C#, HTML, NET, Javascript, Angular, SQL, ASP.NET, AJAX, HTML5, Continuous Improvement Additional Information Over 10 years enterprise level Object Oriented Application Development using .NET  technologies, including E-commerce Web Applications and services.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Object Oriented Languages: C#, Visual Basic, Java  ? Web programming: HTML, CSS, LESS, Javascript, JSON, AJAX, PHP  ? Web UI: JavaScript, Angular, Bootstrap, JQuery, Knockout  ? Test Driven Development: NUnit, QUnit, Jasmine, tSQLt  ? ALM Tools: Visual Studio with TFS and VSTS, VersionOne, Git, ALM Complete, AgileZen  ? Data Management: Entity Framework, Massive ORM, MS SQL Management Studio, SQL  Server Integration and Reporting Services (SSIS, SSRS), MySql, MongoDBSE