Sr. Mobile Developer Sr. Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Mobile Developer Philadelphia, PA ? More than 10 Years of experience in Web Mobile Application Development & Designing.  ? Professional experienced of working on Android and IOS platform and frameworks and customizing it as per requirements.  ? Extensively worked with Android SDK, IOS SDK and Eclipse IDE along with Android ADT plug in.  ? Experienced in Testing across Mobile App, Mobile Web Testing for iOS and Android Platforms.  ? Expert in iPhone, iPad, Objective C, Cocoa/Cocoa Touch, XCode, Swift, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Dojo Mobile, Jquery mobile with rich understanding of frameworks, memory management, multi-threading, best practices, and development tools.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  ? Good experience working with iOS UI development in Xamarin and XCode  ? Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  ? Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  ? Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL  ? Good at Documenting and Understanding User requirements and System Specifications.  ? Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.  ? Hands on UML compliant high level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer.  ? Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds.    Core Tech Skills  ? Android, IOS, Android SDK, Titanium, Phonegap, Xamarin, Cordova, Sencha Touch, REST, Swift, Xcode, Objective C, Angular, Typescript, HTML, JavaScript, C, C++, Asp.Net, C#. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Mobile Developer Oxford Health Plan - Mountain View, CA September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing hybrid mobile applications in iOS and Android development. usingJavascript, and Phonegap.  ? Architected a customized network protocol used by client applications including Android, iOS and Windows Phone 7 to communicate with cloud architectures.  ? Developed new features using Cordova and Angular JS.  ? Wrote and integrated custom Cordova plugins, OAuth and GPS using native code, Objective C and Android Studio, Java.  ? Architected and coded mobile hybrid applications (iOS and Android) using pure HTML5, CSS and JavaScript codebases (Cordova)  ? Integrated Native iOS Objective-C based APIs and frameworks with Xamarin automatic binding generator.  ? Developing Android Mobile applications with Xamarin Studio in using Xcode in Swift.  ? Used c# with combination of Entity framework and CSLA Architecture to develop the product.  ? Worked with Team foundation server on eclipse to interact codebase changes for iOS.  ? Developed Hybrid Mobile App with Ionic and Cordova framework on both Android and IOS platforms.  ? Design hybrid mobile app for Android and iOS using Ionic, Cordova, AngularJS.  ? Used cordova, HTML5, backbone, amber.js, requirejs, knockout, jasmine, .less, google material and many new UI technologies.  ? Developed applications using HTML/5, CSS, Scss, Angular .Net, Git, followed MVC structure  ? Migrated web service project source code from SourceGear Vault to Microsoft Team Foundation Server.  ? Using Swift iOS as a programming language to develop the application.  ? Integrated three third-party API's using C#, JavaScript and PowerShell scripts.  ? Developing a multi platform phone app for iOS, Android, Windows Phone 7.  ? Used PHP RESTFul Service for data communication.  ? Manage the code changes in the project by using TFS ( Team foundation server) tool and used GRADLE to build the web application.  ? Develop Hamper Mobile App using Xamain.IOS/Xamarin.Android (native) in a team using GitHub repository  ? Taking charge of the user interface for the development of iOS and Android applications by using Swift, Xcode, Objective C, JQUERY mobile, JAVASCRIPT, Backbone.js, and PHONEGAP.  ? Developed for Universal Windows Platform using XAMARIN.FORMS.  ? Utilized tools/products including TFS, TestRail, Central Desktop, Mingle, Fiddler, Wireshark, Xmind  ? Building client and server technology using HTML, CSS, Cordova/Phonegap, Objective C, Xcode and Swift  ? Development mobile web application for Android, iOS.  ? Created RESTful API for Web Application and Hybrid Application (Routing, Controllers, Factories, Seeder and Testing) using Laravel, Lumen, Virtual Box and Vagrant.  ? Full redesigned of the Mobile App from Objective C to Swift.  ? Consuming RESTful Services APIs and Local Storage for Data Persistence  ? Developing Android Mobile applications with Xamarin Studio in C#, .Net, using Xcode in Swift.  ? Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  Developing iOS application and networking API features for iOS using Xcode, Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, iOS SDK, Core Data  ? Implemented apps with Google new SDK implementation, new features in Android SDK  ? Specialize in app design and development software by Apple Xcode Swift and Xamarin C# for iOS and Android.  ? Used native and third party technologies to optimize the app functionality including Android Studio.  ? Repurposed the Content of web for Mobile using jQuery mobile & launched a Mobile Application.  ? Cooperated with R&D team for developing front end solutions using JQuery Mobile  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project .To make the system completely independent of the database.  ? Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT and LINUX  ? Used Resource Manager to schedule the job in Unix server.  ? Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  ? Played a key role in writing application logic using Eclipse IDE and Android SDK.  ? Developed an android mobile application based on Android Studio  ? Architected and implement REST api interfaces using javascript and Node.js  ? Created ASP.NET User Controls and Master pages to reduce the complexity of user interface design and to have a common look and feel.  ? Developed a C# and Silverlight front-end application to access the web service  ? Created Flex classes (actionscript and MXML files) using Flex PureMVC pattern.  ? Developed applications using a combination of Java with Android SDK, and Java  ? Develop mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library    Technologies:: Android, Android SDK, IOS, Phonegap, Silverlight, Cordova, Iphone, Ipad, Objective C, XCode, Swift, Asp.Net, C#, Angular, Typescript, HTML, Xamarin, Team Foundation Server, CSS, JSON, Jquery Mobile, Eclipse, RAD, Oracle, PL/SQL, MySql, MS-Sql, JDBC, Android Studio, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Agile, Scrum, Linux, Unix. Sr. Mobile Developer Glaxo Smith Kline November 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Designed mobile websites and apps for iOS and Android using jQuery Mobile, PhoneGap.  ? Mobile application development utilizing Javascript API Framework  ? Creation of mobile applications utilizing both HTML/JavaScript (PhoneGap) and native technologies Java on Android and Objective C on iOS platforms  ? Mobile- Web, Enyo R&D, created 8 PhoneGap Android, iOS, Window-Mobile plug-ins  ? Worked in team to develop iOS and Android application.  ? Responsible for creating, maintaining, and updating mobile application using PhoneGap/Cordova.  ? Create and build Android/IOS applications using frameworks such as Phone Gap and Cordova  ? Utilized several cordova plugins to provide and consume native capability on the application.  ? Developed the hybrid side of the application using Ionic framework, AngularJS and cordova plugins  ? Developed the Unit Tests using Xamarin.UITest and REPL tool  ? Designed, implemented, tested, and deployed one web app using JavaScript on Cordova platform  ? Migrated our source control from Visual Source Safe to Team Foundation Server.  ? Both native mobile platforms such as Eclipse for Android, Hybrid Mobile app platform using HTML5, Phonegap, Cordova.  ? Developed RESTful API endpoints to transfer the user data  ? Designed the Cross-Platform software architecture using Xamarin.Forms and PCL components  ? Architected and built Android Native, iOS and AppMobi/PhoneGap-based mobile applications interfacing with external RESTful and SOAP-based web services, interacting with external design group for UX and transforming/translating design-level requirements into functional requirements for same.  ? Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for version control  ? Worked on full software development cycle from concept through deployment for iOS and Android.  ? Maintaining and debugging Android project that communicates with proprietary Bluetooth devices  ? Develop a real time sports management web platform using SQL, JQuery Mobile and Flex.  ? Designed and implemented database structure in MySQL Server.  ? Tool for copying and/or deleting large batches of Team Foundation Server test cases for QA  ? Implemented the Xamarin Insight crash reports, users, audience and events for monitoring the app across App Store and Google Play.  ? Designed, Developed and maintained iOS applications using Cocoa Touch and Objective C.  ? Conceptualized, designed, developed and deployed mobile applications using iOS SDK, Xcode.  ? Used Android SDK and Eclipse IDE for development  ? Worked with Storyboard (Xamarin and XCode) and Layouts (Xamarin) for the UI interfaces for iPhone, iPad and Android.  ? Developed an app for an augmented reality device that points towards the direction of the sound source using Android Studio and machine learning methods.  ? Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ant script.  ? Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems  ? Designed and implemented using iPhone SDK, XCode, Objective C and Interface Builder.  ? Implementing native libraries in application by using Android SDK and Android NDK.  ? Debugging and problem-solving skills with Eclipse, Android Studio, IntelliJ IDEA, and RAD.  ? Designed and developed multi-protocol telecom Single-Page Architecture application using Node.js, Express and Jade on the backend  ? Worked with iPhone application development using iPhone SDK, C#.NET, Xamarin Studio and Xcode  ? Data modeling using Database development skills in Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL.  ? Developed .NET components using C# and involved in the deployment of those components.  ? Design and Develop programs in C++ to integrate as per the users requirements.  ? Co-developed a new tool on the Express nodeJS/backBone.js MVC platform that allows marketers to insert dynamic content in email sends based on location and temporal factors  ? Developed localizable GUIs using JavaScript, C#, WCF and Silverlight for Microsoft.  ? A native android application with the same functionality is developed in Java using Eclipse, Android SDK, HTML, jQuery Mobile, CSS, PhoneGap.    Technologies: Android, Android SDK, IOS, Xamarin, Phonegap, Cordova, Objective C, XCode, C#, ASP.Net, JQuery Mobile, Silverlight, Actionscript, Iphone, Ipad, Angular, Team Foundation Server, Typescript, HTML, CSS, Dojo Mobile, Agile, Scrum, Eclipse, Android Studio, RAD, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, SOAP, Web Services, Linux, Unix, Eclipse, Git, Github, UML Mobile Developer Atlanta, GA November 2011 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Ported an iPhone iOS application to Android to include SQLite database management and several data entry views and GUIs.  ? Publishing the application in production for all platforms (Android)  ? Developed the presentation layer (UI) using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, Flash, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  ? Developed Coding the presentation layer using WPF and Silverlight.  ? Developed prototypes using Flex, ActionScript, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java  ? Responsible for building the application front end UI in Flex, ActionScript, FlashBuilder4 and Parsley.  ? Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery  ? Implemented custom search solutions using Coveo (an enterprise search engine), Backbone.js, and .NET web services (see Goodwin Procter's site for an example)  ? Develop mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library  ? Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework  ? Using sencha touch for development to find relevant people for the same social Networking Websites  ? Assisted in the logistical parameters of the iPad deployment process by keeping a daily count of total iPads and monitoring the shipping methods.  ? Involved in updating the application UI and application data structure for both Iphone/Ipad.  ? Using JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery Mobile and EJS developed UI for a J2EE web application.  ? Redesign part of an existing web application that was meant for desktops to work on mobile phones using JQuery Mobile  ? Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  ? Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the system using Ruby scripts  ? Website development based on WordPress as a content management system.  ? Designed and developed the individual components of the system using C++ and CORBA  ? Developed code using C, C++ for secure transaction.  ? Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL    Technologies: Android, IOS, Phonegap, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Java, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, EMC Documentum, Jira, Swing, Cognos, iLog, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS, VB. Web Mobile Developer Quest Diagnostics - Madison, NJ April 2009 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on full software development cycle from concept through deployment for iOS and Android.  ? Integrated various plugins to access and customize native iPhone and Android features.  ? Developed an Android keyboard entry game with different selectable skins in a dynamic drawing threaded environment.  ? Started the Android codebase for the topi mobile app and responsible for all following updates.  ? Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery  ? Created re-usable custom components in Flex and ActionScript.  ? Developed Silverlight add-on applications for use with CRM solutions  ? Implemented business requirements using Actionscript  ? Design and written Unit test cases and scenarios for Windows Phone 7.  ? Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework.  ? Developed share view using Sencha Touch for non flash supporting devices.  ? Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online service with Flash/Flex.  ? Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  ? Used services, Asynchronous tasks and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  ? Participated in the quality assurance of the app including, testing of the User Interface and testing the app on different mobile devices.    Technologies:: Android, IOS, Phonegap, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Java, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, REST, Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, API, DDMS, XML, JSON, Android, Android API's, Eclipse IDE Software Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA August 2007 to March 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework.  ? Used Sencha Touch to create Android and iOS applications to support RoR app.  ? Mobile application development utilizing Sencha Touch Javascript API Framework.  ? Responsible for the implementation of Web Design based on CSS, HTML, and Bootstrap Front-End Framework.  ? Developed HTML Mobile application with HTML, Java Script, jQuery, JSON and RESTful web service.  ? Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, and HTML as data and presentation layer technology.  ? Design front end with CSS and HTML coding  ? Extensively using JQuery Mobile, Google Maps UI plugin and Google Maps Javascript Api.  ? Worked on the MVC architecture of Angular.JS in developing the Single Page Application (SPA), build the controllers and directives which are totally customized to meet the needs of the application.    Technologies: Java, spring, RESTful web service, spring data, Tomcat, Eclipse, log 4j, JSON, SVN, Oracle, Maven. Education Bachelor of Computer Science and Engineering Skills Android, Swift, Objective C, Xamarin, Xcode