Front End Web Developer Front End <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fridley, MN Experienced professional with a passion for woodworking seeking a career change. Currently pursuing a diploma in Cabinetmaking at Hennepin Technical College, first year student with a 4.0 GPA. Built an award winning canoe. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Web Developer The Lacek Group - Minneapolis, MN October 2012 to Present • Lead the Front End team in the creation of a new content management system to build and maintain cross-platform client digital assets.  • Collaborate with internal and external teams to write code for websites and emails based upon modern web standards and code bases.  • Work closely with clients such as Chase Bank, United Airlines, Ameriprise Financial, Dupont Pioneer, Carnival Cruise Lines, US Bank, Dunkin' Donuts and Starwood Hotels. Internet Production Designer MLT Vacations - Edina, MN June 2008 to October 2012 • Assemble, schedule and maintain web page content for travel package websites utilizing a content management system for clients including: Delta Airlines, United Airlines and Aeromexico.  • Work with multiple teams to produce web pages and advertisements that market the company's travel package products. Production Artist DigiGraphics - Minneapolis, MN September 2004 to June 2008 • Understand the entire printing process from conception to design to production and installation, troubleshoot digital print files and prepare them for print under tight deadlines.  • Digitally capture artwork using a highly sophisticated scanner, reproduce artwork implementing critical color matching skills.  • Cut file preparation for Zund digital cutter to cut printed items such as; displays, signs and art installation pieces. Education Diploma (currently seeking), in Cabinetmaking Hennepin Technical College - Brooklyn Park, MN January 2019 to Present Bachelor of Arts in Fine Arts, Photography Minnesota State University Moorhead - Moorhead, MN 1997 to 2002 Skills Woodworking, Woodwork, Cabinetry