SharePoint Governance Specialist - Consultant SharePoint Governance Specialist - Consultant Sharepoint Solutions Consultant | Professional Web Developer Chatsworth, CA I’m an experienced Solutions Consultant and Professional Web Developer with a deep understanding of SharePoint. I’ve delivered on $50K + SharePoint projects including custom branded intranet portals that are mobile-friendly and responsive using SharePoint as a content management system, site migrations and version upgrades, custom solution migrations, 3rd party application vetting, installation and integration, site and information architecture, document/list management solutions, and establishing Governance while following best practice.    I’m an energetic and passionate contributor with strong business acumen who’s comfortable presenting to large audiences, leading meetings/teams or being a part of a team. I understand business goals and how SharePoint can be instrumental to achieving these goals and maximizing ROI.    I’ve managed multiple projects and clients concurrently and have a deep understanding of the SDLC, waterfall, and agile methodologies. I’ve nurtured relationships that have led to repeat business from enterprise clients such as Disney, Warner Bros., Samsung and many SMBs.    At heart, I’m a HTML/CSS/JS expert with an obsession for pixel perfect, user-friendly, cross-browser, cross-platform, modern and mobile-responsive design implementations. I also enjoy business process improvement, problem solving, mentoring, sharing knowledge and learning.    Highlights:  • 6 years experience with SharePoint solutions development, SharePoint consulting, project management, team leadership, design, development, and architecture.  • E-commerce web development background with experience developing 2 mobile product .NET retail websites.  • SEO, SEM, site analysis / keywords and metadata expert proven to get sites to appear on Google organically.  • Highly proficient frontend UI/UX developer.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills.  • Experience building websites from the scratch.  • Creative problem solver and strong team player.  • Extremely detail oriented.  • Willing to work late to meet project deadlines.  • Hands on Marketing, client management and business development experience.  • Able to lead, train, and motivate junior / mid-level developers and work with business leadership.    Professional SharePoint experience:  • SharePoint Workflows, SharePoint Designer 2013 and 2010, InfoPath, SharePoint Client Side Rendering using JS and XSLT in classic and Column Formatting with JSON for modern experience.  • SharePoint Central Administration services and settings.  • Expert level SharePoint Classic and Modern Branding with page layouts templates, Custom Themes and Composed Looks.  • Document Management Solutions.  • Custom SharePoint Search, Libraries and Lists, Custom Content Types, Site Columns and Page Layouts, SharePoint Custom Master Pages including Custom CSS, Bootstrap, and any JavaScript library.    Third-party apps:  • Nintex Forms and Workflow  • Yammer  • Metalogix  • Omniture    10 Years professional experience in:  HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, SEO, Google Analytics, XML, XSLT, ASP Classic, VBScript, ADO, COM/COM+, SQL, T-SQL, Stored Procedures, AJAX, Data Automation, E-Commerce, E-Mail and Social Campaigns, Tech Support, Desktop Support, Networking, NAT and DNS, Office.    Software / Platforms:  All versions of SharePoint, Nintex, Visual Studio, Windows Server, SQL Server, IIS, Sourcesafe, Subversion, Pardot, Salesforce, Mailchimp, Adobe, Apple. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SharePoint Governance Specialist - Consultant Los Angeles County Superior Courts - Los Angeles, CA August 2018 to August 2019 Worked with senior management and executives to define SharePoint governance and architecture for 90+ business unit sites with a 5000+ user base. Researched best practice, conceptualized, authored, and presented governance policies and procedures.    Highlights:  • Major UI/UX improvements.  • Classic Theme / Composed look that matched a custom modern theme.  • Mobile-responsive Classic Custom Branding.  • Modern “Site Page” Homepage design.  • Modern Page templates  • Redesigned global navigation.  • Custom modern web-parts.  • Custom page templates and site templates  • Defined baseline document libraries and lists that were centrally managed with custom Content Types and Site Columns based on centralized metadata and managed metadata.  • Weaved centralized metadata columns through most existing document libraries and lists.  • Created custom search refiners based on metadata.  • Developed a deployable project management solution with custom project summaries and KPIs.    Established Governance board, defined policies and procedures such as:  • Retention policies.  • Document management and tagging policies.  • Site on-boarding policy.  • Content and branding policies.  • Taxonomy and metadata policies. Web Manager - Marketing Vubiquity - Burbank, CA April 2015 to June 2018 Managed Marketing websites and online marketing campaigns. Responsible for Google Analytics, SEO and social media campaigns. Trained new Marketing managers on all Marketing systems and apps. Reported directly to EVP of Marketing.    Managed:  • SharePoint Online intranet portal  • Completely redesigned corporate intranet and subsites using re-usable design packages, custom masterpage, page templates, custom CSS, bootstrap and JS.  • Designed, developed and maintained SharePoint solutions.  • Custom issue tracking and discussion lists with custom content types, site columns, notifications and workflows.  • Custom web parts    Affiliate VOD Marketing and Social Campaign Website:  • Completely redesign of UI and updated to sleek, responsive HTML5, CSS3 standards.  • Developed social media marketing campaigns.  • Direct email campaigns via Pardot, Mailchimp and Salesforce.  • Facebook and Twitter - social media posts and messages from clients and potential clients.  • Managed creation of movie titles, related downloadable assets and trained users on CMS.  • Managed affiliate relationships with clients such as Frontier Communications, Sony and Mediacom.   • Technical liaison for new client on-boarding.    Corporate WWW Site  • Managed and maintained Wordpress site via Engine.  • Performed back-ups, installation and deployment.  • Updated CSS and added plugins. Senior Sharepoint Solutions Consultant General Networks Corporation / Disney Contractor - Glendale, CA 2011 to 2015 • Client and Project Management, Designed, Developed and Maintained SharePoint sites for Disney including:  ? Disneyland Shanghai  ? Enterprise Human Resources  ? Service and Technical Operations  ? Operations Standards Directory  ? Walt Disney Attractions Japan  ? Disney Consumer Insights  ? Brand Central    Disney Highlights:  • Migrated complex custom .NET solutions from SharePoint 2010 to 2013.  • Implemented UI and UX Branding.  • Led Project and Support teams, managed clients and projects, including sales, estimates, scope of work, discovery and conducting meetings with key business stakeholders while managing budgets, timelines and tasks throughout the project lifecycle.  • Managed post implementation support  • Integrated 3rd Party Applications:  ? Nintex  ? Knowledgelake  ? Yammer  ? Omniture    • Technical  ? Responsive .CSS Design  ? WSP Deployment  ? Server Configuration and Troubleshooting  ? Server Patch management  ? Troubleshooting Issues with SharePoint services and applications  ? Powershell    Samsung:   Client / Project Management and Development Lead for Samsung Research America Intranet Portal    ? Brought on to remediate a flagging intranet portal project abandoned by a different consulting firm.  ? Resolved all issues and delivered on time and under budget.  ? Managed client, budget, tasks, and timeline  ? Worked with junior developers  ? Implemented custom design and CMS    Warner Bros.:  ? Developed and maintained SharePoint Designer 2010 Workflows and Infopath Forms Trainer and Team Lead - eBook Developer Trailer Park Publishing - Hollywood, CA 2010 to 2011 • Trainer and Team Lead - Led development team of 20+ in creating complex e-Books for Apple's iOS Platform using HTML5, CSS Animations, CSS3, CSS2.1, SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics), Javascript and PHP in a MAC Development environment.  • Invented an automated development process for eBook development, improving efficiency and accuracy using hand written AppleScript to parse book publisher’s Indesign File IDML into usable HTML and CSS.  • Integrated audio via xml.  • Applications used: Coda, xScope, Applescript, InDesign, Photoshop.  • Development group responsible for 6 Million in net income with 70 percent profit margin in the first 6 months of 2011. Web Development Manager GPSCheap, Inc - Van Nuys, CA 2005 to 2010 • Responsible for the design and development of E-Commerce Solution, Banner Ads, Print Ads and E-Newsletter.  • Developed new website features such as Shop-by-Brand, Best Sellers, New Arrivals, Email to a friend, Free Shipping, Product Accessory Finder.  • Maintained Server Farm with IIS & SQL Servers: Backup & Restore, Performance Monitoring, Tuning and Maintenance.  • Managed Search Engine Optimization - SEO. Optimized the website for top ranking on Google, Yahoo and Bing.  • Maintained & Supported IT infrastructure including ESI Phone system, desktops, servers and networking equipment.  • Automated Data Integration with Trade Partners such as: Amazon.com, Buy.com, Google, Pricegrabber, Shopper.com, Ingram Micro, Wynit and D & H.  • Trained staff on creation and maintenance of online product descriptions and images.  • Integrated Website Orders with QuickBooks.  • Installed SSL via Geotrust.com on IIS Web servers.  • Developed 2 additional websites which are integrated to the same backend:  ? http://www.ArkonStore.com  ? http://www.CarthageMosaics.com Senior Web Developer / Webmaster Kering / Pinault, Printemp, Redoute via MobilePlanet - Chatsworth, CA June 1999 to March 2005 • Led development team through 3 complete website redesigns.  • Developed MobilePlanet's award winning "ShopAnywhere" Secure Mobile Shopping site.  • Trained Marketing staff on HTML/CSS for web product management.  • Updated multi-user content management system for customer service and product marketing  • Developed, deployed and managed subscriptions for email marketing campaigns.  • Installed and maintained WebTrends Web-Traffic Reporting Server and worked with department managers to create custom reports.  • Responsible for SEO.  • Optimized the website for top ranking on Google.  • Added new features on website management application include dynamic meta tags, increasing relevance of all website pages while increasing web traffic and order conversion rate.  • Worked in a team of 3-4 developers.  • Implemented SSL via Verisign on IIS Web servers.  • Technical liaison and led development and maintenance of 20+ product fulfillment sub-sites which matched the design of the partner’s sites such as:  • Microsoft  • TomTom  • Audible  • Monster Cable  • Jabra  • Targus    • Managed integration and technical services for:  ? Amazon.com  ? Akamai  ? Google Products  ? CNET Shopper.com  ? Dealtime.com Education Bachelor's in Management Information Systems California State University Northridge - Northridge, CA 1994 to 1999 Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Management Information Systems School of Business and Economics 1998 Skills Ecommerce, HTML, Google Analytics, Adobe, Social Media, Javascript, Front End, Jquery, UI, User Interface, Sharepoint Designer (10+ years), Sharepoint (10+ years), Sharepoint Consulting (7 years), JSON (5 years), XSLT (7 years), CSS3 (5 years), HTML 5, Wordpress, JSON Column Formatting (1 year), Custom SharePoint Modern Lists and Views (1 year), Project Management (7 years), Management (10+ years), Modern Branding (1 year), Sleek Pixel Perfect Designs (10+ years), Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS, Project Management (5 years), Client Relationship Management (10+ years), Business Development (4 years), Web Development (10+ years), Photoshop (5 years), Customer Service (5 years), Website Design (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/namnguyen01 Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jaamctlskpvdahqw Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.