IT System Analyst IT System Analyst Web developer San Antonio, TX HTML5, CSS3 SASS, Bootstrap, JavaScript/ES6, ReactJS / Redux, Git, GitHub, Agile, Wireframe / Mockup, Mobile thinking first, Responsive Design Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT System Analyst USAA - San Antonio, TX August 2017 to August 2019 • Worked on deploying windows 10 and troubleshooting office 365, exchange server, virtual machines, citrix, active directory, and productivity tools escalated from service desk to client computing.   • Working with tools such as CMU, Skynet, Chimera, Director for upgrading, installation of software and resolving incident tickets using ServiceNow (SNOW) system.  • Assisting the rollout team to make sure success deployment across 120K machines and communicating effectively with end users to resolve their issues. Software Developer Behood - Kabul, AF February 2016 to January 2017 • Designed and developed website layout / user interface that was cross-browser compatible and responsive for all type of devices by using HTML/CSS, SASS, bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Determined project’s specifications, scope and transformed the information into functional and scalable code to deliver a high level of reliability and speed to the end user. System Administrator British Embassy - Kabul, AF September 2009 to January 2016 • Provided IT support to senior diplomatic staff of the Embassy and 500+ end users with installation, configuration and troubleshooting of desktops, laptops and their mobile devices   • Managed and written PowerShell scripts for automation of policies, active directory, exchange server and domain controllers.   • Worked on backup service, disaster recovery, active directory, SharePoint site, file server, drive management and group policy.  • Worked with corporate services on managing, forecasting, and controlling IT budget based on prioritization of IT needs on each financial year.  Freelance web Developer Freelance - Kabul, AF August 2013 to June 2015 • Built the websites from scratch, with mobile responsiveness for individuals and companies using HTML/CSS, JavaScript. Desktop Support Technician American University of Afghanistan (AUAF) - Kabul, AF January 2009 to September 2009 • Assisted with the installation and configuration of IT equipment and provided IT support for the staff, faculty and students.  • Provided IT help desk service (troubleshooting of desktops and laptops computers).  • Identified user needs and worked on resolving IT reported problems. Interpreter and Translator US Army, Camp Morehead - Kabul, AF April 2007 to December 2008 • Translated documents, provided interpretation service for US advisers, officials of Ministry of Defense and mentors during Special Forces training program. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Kardan University - Kabul, AF March 2010 to March 2014 Skills Front End, Javascript, Jquery, HTML5, Wordpress, Angular, HTML, Security, Active Directory Links https://www.ishaq.io Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ July 2019 to July 2022 Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) October 2010 to Present Network+ July 2019 to July 2022