Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - ZipRecruiter Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Software Engineer ZipRecruiter - Santa Monica, CA June 2018 to Present As part of containerization efforts, working on consolidating two PDF generation services into one microservice. This involves Kubernetes, Docker, Perl, Go, Salt, and many AWS products.  Provide support with on call privileges for employer team owned services and larger company wide production incidents.  Provide guidance about operational matters from a DevOps perspective to other software engineers.  Work in Perl on the employer facing portion of ziprecruiter.com. System Administrator BI Worldwide - Edina, MN May 2017 to September 2017 Administered RedHat Linux and Solaris servers that served customer and employee loyalty websites for hundreds of internationally recognized brands.  Provided 24x7 support as part of an on-call rotation. System Administrator Minnesota Population Center, University of Minnesota - Minneapolis, MN July 2014 to March 2017 Using the GNU debugger, discovered the root cause of an intermittent failure of 3rd party closed source software. The cause was statically compiled 32-bit binary being used with 64-bit NFS inodes.  Worked on team that tested the feasibility of Postgres-XL with PostGIS extensions on an Oak Ridge National Laboratory supercomputer.  Administered Linux and Solaris servers that provide services for researchers, software developers, and the public.  Provided support and guidance for Linux and infrastructure issues.  Worked with developers on application deployment of Ruby and JRuby apps.  Administered MySQL and PostgreSQL/PostGIS databases.  Modified and wrote programs in Ruby and Perl used by social science researchers. Network Specialist Louisiana Tech University Computing Center - Ruston, LA August 2006 to January 2014 Inherited task of dealing with DMCA complaints. Wrote software to identify users from an IP address and timestamp.  Wrote software to fully automate setup and configuration of new switches (over 175 HP and 3Com switches) when Louisiana Tech's campus expanded by several buildings.  As part of a two person team, provided 24x7 on-call support for all networking hardware at Louisiana Tech as well as all Unix/Linux systems.  Administered Unix servers that handled the email for 20,000 users.  Lead project to move all centrally hosted web properties under latech.edu domain from an aging physical FreeBSD 4 machine to a VM on VMware running FreeBSD 9 with jails used for isolation of web applications.  Administered Linux, FreeBSD, and Solaris servers that handled web, email, directory, database, and network infrastructure services.  Administered network switches and routers in both academic buildings and dormitories on the main campus as well as in Shreveport and Barksdale Air Force Base.  Provisioned websites for campus organizations, which included configuring DNS records, Apache virtual hosts, MySQL databases, LDAP directories.  Provided general support campus-wide for problems with networking and computing services provided by the Computing Center. IT Consultant Dove Digital Services, Inc - Winnfield, LA December 2005 to August 2006 Provided general IT support in addition to leading specific projects.  Installed and configured redundant mail servers with fail over capability which provided mail service for several domains for offices in Louisiana and Illinois.  Wrote Ruby scripts to aid in the migration of email to in-house servers.  Wrote software that archived all email, both sent and received, and created an index accessible via IMAP of the previous six months of email organized by user and date.  Reconfigured routers, firewall, servers, and PCs when T1 service changed.  Built Interactive Voice Response system to gather work order information via telephone. Software Developer DirecTECH Southwest - Winnfield, LA May 2004 to August 2005 Implemented proof-of-concept payroll system in Perl that was more efficient and scalable than previous "classic" ASP and Excel solution. Noticed that some workers had been underpaid.  Automated daily bulk data processing with Perl eliminating the need for operator involvement.  Designed, coded, and deployed a stand-alone Perl application for Windows that dramatically improved reliability of a work order import process sourced from a tn3270 client attached to a mainframe.  Implemented user tracking and IP logging for online inventory system.  Created new and maintained existing applications to simplify business processes.  Administered Windows and Linux servers that provided web, database, mail, IVR, and auto-faxing services.  Provided IT support to employees in multiple offices throughout the eastern US.  Made upgrades and modifications to inventory and work order system per users' requests.  Streamlined new email account creation with Perl. Web Developer Space Science Group, Northwestern State University - Natchitoches, LA May 2003 to August 2003 Wrote a utility in Scheme to simplify the process of encoding mathematics in MathML.  Proofread and formatted content for Practice Run educational software. Interactive Qualifying Project Worcester Polytechnic Institute - Worcester, MA 2003 to 2003 With a partner, designed and implemented Java applets to help teach statistics to undergraduate students. The applets were used for several years in WPI's introductory statistics course. Lab Technician WPI Computer Science Department - Worcester, MA August 1999 to May 2000 Maintained two computer labs and assisted in system administration of Solaris, NT, and Linux servers. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Worcester Polytechnic Institute - Worcester, MA 2003 Skills Apache, Freebsd, Linux, Radius, Red hat, Solaris, C++, Docker, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Perl, Php, Ruby, Visual basic, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Postgresql, Git Additional Information SKILLS  Programming Languages: Perl, C++, C, PHP, JavaScript, Ruby, Racket, Scheme, Java, Visual Basic, x86 assembly  Web: HTML, CSS, Apache HTTP server, Passenger, Tomcat, mod_rewrite, CGI, IIS  Platforms: Linux (Debian, Ubuntu, Red Hat, and CentOS), FreeBSD, Solaris, Windows, Docker, Kubernetes, FreeBSD jails, Solaris zones, VMWare ESX, Xen, EC2  Databases: MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, Microsoft SQL Server, ElasticSearch, NoSQL  Email: SMTP, IMAP, POP3, Sieve, Postfix, web clients (Horde, SquirrelMail), Amavis, ClamAV, SpamAssassin, Mailman, qmail  Networking: tcpdump, Wireshark, SSH, HTTP, SNMP, LDAP, DHCP, DNS, FTP, OpenSSL, LLDP, Samba, RADIUS, NTP, Nagios, Snort, HP ProCurve; Extreme; Juniper; and Cisco switches and routers  Other Technologies: S3, Chef, Salt, Ansible, Jenkins, ZFS, git, make, rake, Capistrano, rsync, GTD, Latex, JSON, YAML