Solution Architect / Scrum Master Solution Architect / Scrum Master Solution Architect / Scrum Master - T2 Systems Indianapolis, IN Scrum Master, C# Programmer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Solution Architect / Scrum Master T2 Systems July 2010 to Present I've served as architect, team lead and scrum master for a dedicated support team and for two product-centric teams, designed code architecture for new features, facilitated scrum ceremonies, led cross-team training and learning sessions on refactoring and patterns, written user stories, pushed for more resilient and safer programming and deployment strategies, encouraged the adoption of Scrum across the engineering department, and dealt with challenging team dynamics.  ? Certified Scrum Master for multiple teams  ? Solutions Architect and Team Lead for multiple teams  ? Heavy focus on continuous improvements, effectiveness, and safety Programmer Sobongo/All American Direct September 2009 to July 2010 Data wrangling, web application programmer. Primarily responsible for the development of two applications: One application to accept, export, and track online and agent-assisted orders for Dish Network television services (LAMP with SOAP API client), Another application to record and analyze marketing data (viz. financials, distribution, response performance) (LAMP). Some work on a Magento (Zend-based) e-Commerce system, most notably JavaScript enhancements providing social feeds and features (twitter/facebook/youtube streams [via API and RSS parsing], product voting) and UI enhancements.    Overhauled cron- and Perl-based reporting system which performs scheduled database queries, csv queries, xml parsing, and downloading and uploading of various reports. Application Developer / Web Developer / IT Analyst T2 Systems May 2002 to September 2009 Implemented MS Exchange and Active Directory, Provided 50-100 local and remote users with Network and Systems support. Developed scripts to streamline and automate various processes. Developed customized and templated web applications hooked into SOAP APIs and Oracle Databases. Used: Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2000, Windows NT Server, Windows XP, Windows 2000, RHEL 4, C#, VBScript, Perl, PHP, Oracle, MSSQL. Web Developer Earthwing, Inc May 2001 to May 2002 Developed eCommerce system from scratch for an offshoot company specializing in computer cables and PC parts using a mix of VBScript and PHP; Then wrapped that system up in a template and started implementing customized eCommerce websites for clients. Web Developer Galaxy Internet / Galaxy Online, Inc January 2000 to January 2001 Some graphic design, some corporate website development, some AD/Exchange administration. Led a small department of web developers and designers before merging with an acquired company (Genesis Digital Media). Education High school or equivalent Skills C# (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), PL/SQL (10+ years), SQL, CSS (10+ years), T-SQL, JAVA, FRONT-END, Agile Scrum, Scrum (4 years), Scrum Master (3 years) Links https://github.com/petejscott Certifications/Licenses Professional Scrum Master July 2016 to Present https://www.scrum.org/user/191081 Additional Information Technical Skills  Very strong C#, Very strong front-end foundations (Javascript, CSS, HTML), SQL (PL/SQL, T-SQL), Limited Java, bash.