Technology Facilitator Technology Facilitator Technology Facilitator - Decoded Lancaster, PA TOP SKILLS    Engaging teacher and facilitator looking to deliver high-quality content to support the learning of technological applications. Work Experience Technology Facilitator Decoded - New York, NY June 2016 to Present • Deliver course content related to Code, Internet of Things, Cybersecurity and Blockchain.  • Support facilitations by setting up, tearing down, and assisting attendees as they work to solve problems. Web Developer & Consultant Self-Employed - Lancaster, PA December 2002 to Present • Provide front-end development through a streamlined workflow including Sass, task running, version control, and content management system integration for responsive websites.  • Responsible for increasing visitor engagement, including strategy, project idea generation, project management, copywriting, search marketing, UX testing, event tracking, and development. Manager of Design & Development Web Talent Marketing - Lancaster, PA October 2019 Improved the visibility of department performance by leading the implementation of time tracking and project  management software.  • Manage a combination in-house and international remote team of two developers and one designer.  • Manage all web projects and select accounts, working directly with clients to deliver successful projects. Assistant Professor Pennsylvania College of Art & Design - Lancaster, PA September 2008 to June 2018 • Taught and led the design of course material in website design, development, and copywriting.  • Provided academic assistance in portfolio reviews, accreditation assessments, and coordination of the Graphic Design  internship program.  • Nominated and elected as the faculty member of the Board of Trustees class of 2016-2020. Web Developer, Excelsior Marketing Aurora Creative Group - Lancaster, PA July 2007 to August 2011 Created an in-house web workflow process for integrated marketing projects including website production, targeted  digital marketing, paid search campaigns, and organic search.  • Produced and managed websites, email campaigns, banner advertisements, digital billboards, and PPC campaigns. Interactive Developer Scheffey Integrated Marketing - Lancaster, PA June 2006 to April 2007 • Improved search engine results by implementing a combination of content organization, and well-structured HTML.  • Introduced web standards (table-less) coding practices for all website projects. Education Certificate in Digital Product Management University of Virginia 2018 B.A. in Corporate Communications Elizabethtown College 2006 to 2008 A.A. in Web Development Harrisburg Area Community College 2001 to 2003 Skills Teaching (10+ years), Photoshop, Public Speaking, HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years) Links http://briangunzenhauser.com Certifications/Licenses Driver's License