Sr. Technical Consultant Sr. Technical Consultant Sr. Technical Consultant - First Republic Bank San Francisco, CA • Overall 9+ years of extensive experience in IT Service Management.  • Solid knowledge of Service Management and Service Delivery Process (ITIL Frame Work).  • Direct hands on experience on various IT Services of Service-Now tool like Service Catalog Requests, Asset Management, Configuration Management, ServiceNow Administration, Incident and Problem Management, Knowledge Management, Project Portfolio Management (PPM), Reporting, Gauges, Integration with Web Services.   • Created various workflows for process applications for Incident Management, Change Management, Problem Management Service requests and SLA's.   • Customization and Enhancements of latest ServiceNow modules like HR Case Management, Service Portal, Timecard module and On Call scheduling modules.  ________________________________________  Expertise:   • ServiceNow –Administration & Development.  • ServiceNow - Incident, Problem, SRM, Release, Change & Asset Management.  • ServiceNow – Service Portal.    Certifications:   • Certified System Administrator: 171018723  • ITIL Foundation Certificate: GR750496033KD  • Certified Scrum Master: 604706  ________________________________________ Work Experience Sr. Technical Consultant First Republic Bank - San Francisco, CA October 2018 to Present • Working with Change Management team to make changes to form, creating UI actions, UI policies and Client scripts  • Creating and Maintaining Service Catalog Items and customized workflows and macros  • Working with CMDB and Asset management team for maintenance of assets in system  • Provide daily maintenance, support and troubleshooting of the ServiceNow production environment  • Recommend improvements or changes to technical and functional designs where appropriate  • Analyze and verify requirements for completeness, consistency, comprehensibility and feasibility  • Transform functional requirements into detailed technical designs that represent actionable development tasks  • Ensure technical designs meet functional design requirements as well as maintain the integrity and sustainability of applications  • Create process models, specifications, diagrams and charts to provide direction to project team  • Create and execute use cases, test cases and test scenarios that determine optimal system performance  • Ensure testing activities will allow applications to meet business requirements and system goals Sr. ServiceNow Developer/Administrator Cisco - Richardson, TX July 2017 to September 2018 • Worked with clients to assess the current state processes and tools, responsible for defining ServiceNow requirements.  • Worked on Hardware Asset management which consisted on integration with other softwares such as CG1 and eITMS though scripted REST and JDBC connection, creating transform maps  • Created Bulk upload functionality for Change Request (similar to Remedy) where user can upload several thousand Cis with a change request. This consisted of making a UI page, data source, transform maps, scripts and business rules  • Created scripted REST API for the whole change cycle which is widely used by hosting team. It consisted of script include, transform maps ,data sources etc through POST and PUT methods  • Creating PIDs, model categories, models and field normalizations for Hardware Asset Management  • Creating Custom Reports and Homepages  • Worked on the following modules of ServiceNow like Incident Management, Service Catalog, User Administration, Change Management and Reporting  • Worked on the creation of front end forms and associating them to Client Scripts, also experienced on UI policies including advanced customizations that require modification of UI pages/macros.  • Designed and developed technical methodologies under the ServiceNow platform.  • Loading of external data with the usage of Import Sets and Transform maps.  • Actively involved in migrating data from other applications and external databases.  • Worked on Migration of Update sets between System Environments.  • Development of additional notifications and supporting workflow to send additional data and attachments  • Development of custom applications and tables to meet client specific requirements.  • Customization of the ServiceNow system, including creating workflows.  • Building client specific service requests from customer requirements including requests, request items and tasks using workflows to manage data flows from the customer to the support teams providing the service.  • Worked on Script Customization for Service Catalog/Email Template/Workflow script.  • Mapping the user requirements/ enhancements to ServiceNow entities and providing estimation for end to end development of requirement.  • Worked with CMDB and configured mid server and pointed them to various ServiceNow instances.  • Worked with QA team to validate the test cases whether meeting the business Requirements or not Conducted Unit Testing, interface testing, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Populating the CIs (Configuration Items) and configuring the CI relations in CMDB.  • Configuring multiple forms for Asset module using Configuration Management Database.  • Creating metric reports, scheduling reports and integrating them with the third party.  • Delivered project needs on time and within the agreed acceptance criteria in a hybrid methodology environment as they attempted to transition to an Agile Methodology.  • Participating in daily Scrum Meetings and discussions among different stakeholders. ServiceNow Administrator/ Developer Dole Packaged Foods - Westlake Village, CA September 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Working with client and functional requirements within ServiceNow.  • Upgrading from Fuji to Helsinki version of ServiceNow.  • Implementing ESS using the Service Portal Module in ServiceNow.  • Facilitating rollout of new applications and modules.  • Assist in the definition of business requirements and provide definitions and updates of system design documentation.  • Creating Custom reports using Database views  • Responsible for providing analysis of problems and resolutions or fixes for the production issues related to Service Now platform within the Service Level Agreement  • Cloning instances between Development and Production  • Implementation of ServiceNow including, but not limited to, Client Scripts, UI policies, UI Actions, Script Includes, Business Rules, workflow administration, report setup, and data imports and exports.  • ServiceNow application development; including creation and configuration of Service Catalogs, Email Notifications, Data imports and exports and Reports.  • Implemented, documented and maintained the ServiceNow platform to meet specific business needs to support ITIL and business processes.  • Experienced in the analysis, development and automation of various ITSM processes including Incident Management, Change Management, Asset Management, Service Request, Configuration Management  • The service we also provide to clients is a semi managed service for administering their Service desks that has been implemented. This includes various administration tasks within Service desk software.  • Created Buttons and context menus both on form and lists using UI actions.  • Designed many email templates by using html and jelly scripting and used them in notifications.  • Worked with windows team, network team and Asset team in order to check for the data collected through discovery is accurate.  • Created new Business Rules/Script Includes/Client catalog script/Client Script.  • Configured chat functionality for Service Desk ticketing queue.  • Created transform maps for importing CMDB data.  • Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts.  • Imported Active Directory to Service now using data sources.  • Created data sources and loaded the ServiceNow tables with different data formats. ServiceNow Administrator/ Developer DirecTV - Los Angeles, CA September 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in providing the design solution, technical methodologies and processes solution to meet the customer requirements.  • Manage and coordinate activities during the overall ticket life cycle in Incident and Problem Management  • Developed new user interface for Help Desk Team.  • Involved in working with process owners to develop workflow, implement the workflows in Service Applications and administer the tools and enhanced requests by java script.  • Performing quality assurance testing and user acceptance testing.  • Created reports, workflows, data imports for Incident, Problem, Service Request, and Change Service Now modules.  • Created and Maintained foundation data - User Accounts, Approvers, Support Groups, Sites, Production Categorizations and Templates.  • Responsible for preparing design level, program-level and user-level documentation.  • Creation of Ordered Guides.  • Involved in the complete end to end cycle of coding, testing, debugging, maintaining and refining the computer software in ServiceNow to produce the required product in an Agile development environment.  • Created Procedure guidelines used in supporting Technology and Application issues.  • Implemented, documented and maintained the ServiceNow platform to meet specific business needs to support ITIL and Business processes.  • Configured Service Level Agreements to define certain levels of service from both internal and external providers  • Responsible for maintaining and growing data held within Service Now such as our users, locations, configuration items and Service catalog items.  • Use business analysis skills to directly interface with customers to design and build applications that meet business goals and objectives.  • Utilized Java Scripting to deliver solutions that automate and audit business processes using UI Policy, Client Script, UI Action and Business Rules.  • Responsible for maintaining and growing data held within ServiceNow such as our users, locations, configuration items, service catalog items.  • Application UI Configuration.  • Development of requirement integration components (SSO, LDAP, SOAP)  • Converted the Service Catalog into a fully functional website using Content Management module.  • Design and Configuration of workflows.  • Configuration of Email Notification to alert users on ServiceNow activities.  • Designed and deployed integration of Remedy ticketing system with other vendor systems.  • Configured and updated Remedy Flashboards7.5 for the client's COTS and custom applications using the Remedy Utilities.  • Possess good knowledge in implementing Approval process for Change Management as well as Custom Applications.  • Experience in developing and customization of Flashboards and service level Agreement (SLA) modules for Remedy ITSM. ServiceNow Administrator/ Developer MBFS - Farmington Hills, MI January 2015 to August 2015 Responsibilities:-  • Involved in ServiceNow Development, Customization and Administration.  • Implementation of Problem Management, Incident Management, Change Management, Service Catalog Management and Email Notifications.  • Created and Maintained foundation data - User Accounts, Approvers, Support Groups  • Create new service catalog requests and items with variables.  • Developed UI Appearance for Service Catalog Requests.  • Create, monitor, modify and publish service catalog workflows with approvals.  • Designing, configuring and customizing new applications and modules. Assisting in troubleshooting patch/ release management issues.  • Build reports, gauges, and home pages.  • Create and use update sets to move customizations between systems.  • Search, populate, and customize the knowledge base.  • Writing Business Rules, Client scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions to customize the instance as per Business needs.  • Developed operational requirements documentation and train operational staff to maintain solution.  • Configuration of Email Notification and Alerts to notify users about specific activities in the system  • Use business analysis skills to directly interface with customers to design and build applications that meet business goals and objectives.  • Customized UI Appearance for Problem and Change Management Application which is simple, intuitive and easy to use.  • Setting up Change Management along with Advanced Risk Assessment Calculator (on a script include level).  • Configuration of Email Notification and Alerts to notify users about specific activities in the system such as updates to Change and Problem requests.  • Utilized Java Scripting in Business Rules, Client scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions to deliver solutions that automate and audit business processes. to customize the instance as per Business needs. BMC Remedy ITSM CONSULTANT RackSpace - San Antonio, TX July 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Provided analysis, design and development of Service-Now trouble ticketing and incident management systems to support the company's technical operations.  • Participated in process designing sessions and documented ITIL process flows.  • Working with process owners and business stakeholders to translate business requirements into functional requirements within ServiceNow.  • Experience in designing, development and implementation of ServiceNow Platform ITSM application.  • In-depth knowledge of the technical implementation of Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Catalog, Configuration Management, Reporting, Discovery and Integrations.  • Worked on fixing bugs and doing enhancements for Incident, Problem and Change management and Service Catalog modules.  • Creation of tables within ServiceNow.  • Managing data with tables, CMDB import sets Users, Groups and roles.  • Creation of custom reports and designing the dash board.  • Design and implement SLA - Service Level Agreement and the required work flow with Email notifications.  • Created notifications based on user requirements and also configured inbound email actions to create incidents or requests.  • Involved in evaluation of ITSM tools like Kovair, OTRS, Digite for selecting tool to be used for internal projects.  • Implemented JDBC Export to execute custom SQL queries in the target database based on requirement.  • Part of core team to implement ITIL V3 at organization level and finding the delta between ITIL v2 & v3.  • Participated in ISO20000 internal & external audits.  • Create schedules, reports and monitor performance of Service-Now.  Projects handled in Remedy Tools COE:-  • Migration of Remedy 7 to Remedy 7.5  • Managed Interfaces with Remedy 7.5  • User Migration from Remedy 6.3 to Remedy 7.5  • Remedy ITSM Process CoE.  • MI Support.  • Release Management definition of a new release management processes for around 136 applications that are dependent on CRM, ERP and web application tier services.    Environment: JavaScript, Java, Html, CSS, Glide Script, Service Now, Web Services. ITSM CONSULTANT VCE - Richardson, TX November 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Provided analysis, design and development of ServiceNow trouble ticketing and incident management systems to support the company's technical operations.  • Participated in process designing sessions and documented ITIL process flows.  • Working with process owners and business stakeholders to translate business requirements into functional requirements within ServiceNow.  • Experience in designing, development and implementation of ServiceNow Platform ITSM application.  • In-depth knowledge of the technical implementation of Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Catalog, Configuration Management, Reporting, Discovery and Integrations.  • Worked on fixing bugs and doing enhancements for Incident, Problem and Change management and Service Catalog modules.  • Creation of tables within ServiceNow.  • Managing data with tables, CMDB import sets Users, Groups and roles.  • Creation of custom reports and designing the dash board.  • Design and implement SLA - Service Level Agreement and the required work flow with Email notifications.  • Involved in evaluation of ITSM tools like Kovair, OTRS, Digite for selecting tool for internal projects.  • Implemented JDBC Export to execute custom SQL queries in the target database.  • Part of core team to implement ITIL V3 at organization level, finding the delta between ITIL v2 & v3.  • Create schedules, reports and monitor performance of ServiceNow.  • Release Management definition of a new Release Management processes for around 136 applications that are dependent on CRM, ERP and web application tier services.    Environment: JavaScript, Java, Html, CSS, Glide Script, Service Now, Web Services. UI Developer GCOM SYSTEMS, India - IN May 2009 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Creation of highly Usable, Accessible, X-Browser,X-Resolution, and X-Platformcompatible web applications using (X)HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JavaScript Libraries.  • Translated wireframes into optimized program code using XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and DHTML.  • Worked extensively on numerous web technologies including HTML5, CSS 2.0, CSS 3.0, and JavaScript.  • Tested of websites for W3C validation and testing it in major browsers like Firefox, IE7, IE8.  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Handling code optimization techniques to decrease much use of JavaScript in creating dynamic functionality, with the use of CSSclasses.  • Used AJAX and JSONto make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Provided JavaScript and CSSfixes for the UIfor issue like orientation issues in web and JQueryimplementation.  • Worked on developing application in safari and chrome.  • Provided a brandable solution for all application so that header and footer are the same across the application. Web/UI Developer ABS INDIA, PVT., LTD May 2008 to April 2009 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile development process based on iterative development.  • Design development of presentation layers using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used JavaScript and JQueryfor validating the input given to the user interface.  • Developed Mock-up designs as per the requirements of Business.  • Developed the complete HTML, CSS and JavaScript of the pages with emphasis on performance, accessibility (AA) and SEO standards.  • Implemented Performance Tuning to make the pages load fast and in an effective way.  • Implemented AJAX to speed up web application.  • Used jQuery extensively for event handling, DOM manipulation and cross-browser compatibility.  • Performed extensive unit testing (end-to-end) and prepared detailed test scripts as part of it.  • Designed and developed code for table less web interfaces using XHTML, CSS, and DOM.  • Worked closely with Technical Development Manager to help track, prioritize, estimate, and recommend resources for all Technical Development Team projects.  • Used SVN as version control. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Expertise:  • ServiceNow -Administration & Development.  • ServiceNow - Incident, Problem, SRM, Release, Change & Asset Management.  • ServiceNow - Service Portal.