Senior Business Analyst Senior Business Analyst Senior Business Analyst - PJM Interconnection, Audobon Solutions-driven Business Analyst with 8+ years of IT experience leading cross-functional teams in the development, documentation and delivery of process innovations driving the attainment of business goals. Adept in identifying functional Points and translating the business needs into business Requirements Design (BRD) & Software Requirement Specifications (SRS), and user interface specifications and extensive experience in Healthcare, retail services & Energy domain. Work Experience Senior Business Analyst PJM Interconnection, Audobon March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Elicited, analyzed, validated, specified, and managed the business requirements of stakeholders and end users throughout the entire software development life cycle. Used a combination of Agile and Waterfall Methodologies in a fast paced environment, participated in sprints with focus on small enhancements.  • Gathered requirements, performed gap analysis, created user stories, developed project specifications and acceptance criteria, created Use Cases Model Diagrams, application flow and functional designs.  • Identified stakeholders and user classes; negotiated their responsibilities related to requirements definition, assessment and approval.  • Formulated artifacts including Features/User Stories/Use Cases using TFS, business /User/Functional/Non-Functional Requirements using Case Complete, Wireframes using Axure, Process and Work Flow Diagrams using Visio, and Trace Matrices.  • Elicited requirements using interviews, document analysis, requirements workshops, storyboards, surveys, site visits, business process descriptions, use cases, business analysis, task and workflow analysis. Decomposed high-level business and user requirements into functional requirements.  • Liaison between end-users, Product Managers, Project Managers, and development team.  • Facilitated presentations, organized meetings and communicated status of commitments.  • Evaluated requirements gathered from multiple sources, reconciled conflicts, and separated user 'wants' from true needs  • Identified gaps in Project and Product-related materials based on requirements.  • Word and MS Visio that provided appropriate scope of work to develop prototype.  • Connected to different Data Sources (Oracle, SQL Server), Excel Files and Flat Files and generated multiple reports as per the business requirements.  • Experience in building various ad hoc reports using SQL for the project managers to help in decision making at the end of product development.    Environment: JIRA, Confluence, SQL Server, Oracle, Microsoft office suite, Sharepoint. Senior Business Analyst Fort Washington, PA April 2014 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Leading and analyzing requirements validation and requirement prioritization in alignment with budgetary and scheduling parameters during all phases of execution of information technology projects.  • Analyzing stakeholder and client requirements into action items and goals in order to develop project plans to implement and improve computer systems.  • Formulating and defining systems and objectives through research and the analysis of functional/business needs and converting them into measurable milestones and help set a success path for the project.  • Researching and advising technical solutions and processes in order to remediate business problems and address relevant needs  • Prioritize business requirements and create conceptual prototypes and mock-ups.  • Ensure quality of the product developed at the end of the software product life cycle and also account for the maintainability of the product once in Live environment.  • Production support for all the live systems including various intranet and extranet systems.  • Responsible for creating complex business process flows using Microsoft Visio in initial implementation phase.  • Responsible for creating data mapping between requirements and Databases like Oracle, SQL using complex PL/SQL scripts.  • Developing complex queries using Oracle, SQL databases, and providing data analytics to stakeholders and business users in the form of various complex reports and document current application dependencies.  • Creation and maintenance of new data models, database design and overseeing ETL framework implementation for the project.  • Collect, Organize and analyze large sets for data from different datasources and provide data analysis using visualization applications like Tableau reports to the Stake holders to help them make informed data driven decisions for the projects.  • Received training on Hadoop development.    Environment: Microsoft Project, JIRA, Hadoop, Redmine, SQL Server, Oracle, Microsoft office suite. Business Analyst Metro-North Railroad - New York, NY May 2011 to March 2014 Responsibilities:    • Gathered detailed business and technical requirements and participated in the definitions of business rules and data standards for various Rail road projects.  • Identified and documented workflow, process diagrams, information resources, and system specifications and participated in the analysis and definition of efficient, cost effective solutions that support business processes and functional requirements  • Interacting with various source teams and business teams for usage of proper data and required metrics.  • Created reports and consulted on best practice configuration of systems, configure packaged solutions to unique and complex business requirements.  • Performed complex testing activities including construction of test plans/scripts including the expected results and the validation of test results, communicate and document system changes to the business. Translate system functionality into business relevant language. Lead and participated in SME discussions.  • Responsible for quality assurance of all web design projects, including web usability, accessibility, testing and debugging.  Environment: Microsoft office, HTML, PVCS (version control), Quality center, Oracle, SQL Navigator. Developer/ Business Analyst Core Projects & Technologies July 2010 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Created and modified functional specifications, epics, user stories, use cases, activity diagrams, data flow diagrams and business requirements.  • Created report and screen prototypes based on user requirements.  • Participated as subject matter expert and liaison to Edmastery tool management team and an affiliated non-profit organization involving data structure, technical support, design and implementation.  • Involved in requirement gathering from the client and functional users and analysis of the business requirements from client.  • Met with the administrators, teachers to understand specific needs for Edmastery.  • Preparing Business Requirement document (BRD), Functional Requirement document (FRD), specific agendas, meeting minutes, manage action items.  • Use MS Visio, MS Word and MS PowerPoint to develop all required documentation  • Extensive Interaction with Functional Super users to gather business requirement, performed analysis for change requirements. Web Application Developer McGraw-Hill Companies - Dubuque, IA May 2009 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked with ColdFusion, Python, HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript, JQuery during the development of application wizards.  • Experience in writing stored procedures, packages, functions using oracle SQL & PL/SQL.  • Worked extensively on CF custom tags, Components.  • Responsible for updating Technical design document embedded in iPub application  • Analysis of the business requirements from client.  • Extensive Interaction with Functional Super users to gather business requirement, performed analysis for change requirements.  • Responsible for quality assurance of all web design projects, including web usability, accessibility, testing and debugging.  • Python development experience, creating web pages with SQL server as the backend.  Environment: Python, Coldfusion, Quality center, SQL 2000, HTML, Java Script, CSS, PVCS. Web Developer Intel Corporation December 2008 to April 2009 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for quality assurance of all web design projects, including web usability, accessibility, testing and debugging.  • Was involved in the User interface design of the ISN group website.  • Extensive use of tools like PVCS source repository tools during the development.  • Involved in the front end development of the intranet based website for the ISN.  • Optimized existing code and SQL queries to improve performance and code re-use.  • Extensively involved in Error Handling and Debugging.  Environment: SQL 2000, HTML, Java Script, CSS, Dreamweaver, PVCS. Education Masters of Engineering in Computer Science in Engineering Portland State University 2008 Bachelors Of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University 2006