Web Designer/ Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Fullstack JavaScript Developer Centennial, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer/ Developer Rise Above Parts March 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Design, develop, deploy website with full creative control  • Review client needs, and transform ideas in to functionality  • Create and edit logos, images, design patterns for client based on client's goals  • Provide guidance on development, design, and interface, and user interaction. Recommending effective practices and strategies  to incorporate into company's website/marketing strategies  • Provide client tech support Web Developer and Flash Game programmer (ECMAScript) Lets Arcade January 2011 to Present Accomplishments  • Furthered knowledge of Modern web development, and ECMAScript versions.  • Managed 4 employees and provided assistance in development of projects from real time physics, user interaction, design, and troubleshooting.  • Provided concepts for game play and graphics, as well as functionality and features.  • Negotiated and secured investment of $100,000  Responsibilities  • Web and Game Development/Design  • Keeping up morale, and creativity within a small tight-knit group of developers and artists  • Engage directly with investor converting needs and demands into tangible results.  • Clearly expressing goals and needs to employees, and maintaining realistic production schedule Web Developer/Game Developer Metabuff January 2019 to June 2019 metabuff.com)  Responsibilities  • Master Unreal Engine 4 as much as possible  • Assist in gathering input from community and deciding which characters needed for MVP  • Connect animations, character abilities, sounds, and numbers for varying stats on characters.  • Set up the boiler plate for "melee" based characters  • Troubleshooting various bugs, both character related, and map/world related. Web Developer The CE Shop August 2018 to January 2019 Responsibilities  • Convert 10,000 PDF files to HTML format  • Review client needs, and convert different PDF layouts in to functional HTML for Angular front end  • Provide assistance on development, design, and interface, and user interaction. Exercising effective practices and strategies in maximizing efficiency with conversion process. Web Developer Code Craft School of Technology November 2015 to January 2016 Full Stack JavaScript  Accomplishments:  • Survived 10 weeks of intensive accelerated coursework and homework  • Practiced and studied MEAN and MERN technologies  • Created a full stack social network with MongoDB, Node, Express, Angular, and Socket IO  • Learned more about Node, Express, Angular, React, MongoDB, and SQL Independent Delivery Contractor Food Delivery - Golden Sun (Chinese) - Dominos November 2012 to January 2016 Accomplishments  • Saved $10,000 and paid cash for 10-week boot camp program "Code Craft" in Boulder, Colorado  • Learned how to rebuild an entire Toyota 22re engine via YouTube videos. Still running strong.  • Maintained studies using many paid and unpaid learning resources online.  Responsibilities  • Customer service Desktop Support Technician Durango, CO 2009 to 2010 Accomplishments  • Learned and taught others many nifty tricks to solve a variety of computer problems  • Made many happy customers, solved a large spectrum of problems for many different people  • Set records for most computers fixed in 1 day, 1 week, 1 month  • Installed multiple Smart Boards for Halliburton.  Responsibilities  • Ensure customer satisfaction  • Ensure customer's file's confidentiality  • Solve problems in a timely manner Junior Network Admin/Desktop Support Microsoft 2008 to 2009 Accomplishments  • Achieved multiple certifications to handle warranties and repairs on HP, IBM, Lenovo, and Dell computers and printers  • Learned many fundamentals about routers, the internet, and networking  • Had a maximum turnover rate of 4 hours with 1 computer.  Responsibilities  • Customer service/interaction  • Ensure customer's file's confidentiality  • Solve problems in a timely manner  • Get Executives computers done immediately and ahead of all others Education A+ Certification Bellevue Community College - Bellevue, WA 2007 Regional Technical Institute - Reno, NV 2005 Incline Village Highschool - Incline Village, NV 2004 Skills MYSQL, PHP, CSS, Javascript