Contractor Contractor Web Developer Bloomington, IN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Contractor Randstad USA - Cumberland, GA April 2019 to Present • Developed a new web-based application using React JS and Node JS.  • Collaborated with team members in an agile setting to support existing software and   • develop new solutions.  • Upgraded existing software to add new functionality and increase performance.  • Integrated in-house software with external APIs including Google Calendar.  • Increased software stability by implementing automated test suites using Jest JS. Popcorn Kernel Cub Scout Pack 121 - Bloomington, IN August 2017 to Present • Coordinate all efforts related to selling popcorn as a fundraiser.  • Work with local businesses to sell popcorn in front of stores during the fundraiser period.  • Compile all orders collected by scouts and order popcorn required to fill those orders.  • Collect money for popcorn sales and credit each scout so that they can be properly recognized for their participation. Den Leader Cub Scout Pack 121 - Bloomington, IN August 2016 to Present • Guide young scouts through fulfilling requirements to advance in rank.  • Create lesson plans that engage young scouts by keeping them active, but also teach the core values of scouting.  • Collaborate with parents and community members to identify unique experiences that scouts will enjoy. Web Developer Indiana University - Bloomington, IN January 2017 to December 2018 • Developed a new front end for an existing web application using new technologies and frameworks including React JS.  • Developed a new PHP-based back end to support the new front end.  • Redesigned the application database to better fit the new requirements for the new version of the application.  • Created automated unit and acceptance tests to ensure functionality and expedite regression testing using the Jasmine JavaScript testing framework.  • Coordinated with specialist teams to share knowledge in order to meet our goals.  • Collaborated with user experience designers to reimagine the workflow of the application. Front-End Developer Cook Medical - Bloomington, IN December 2014 to December 2016 • Developed new internal web applications using PHP, JavaScript, and jQuery to provide an interface to manage protocols for the product return process.  • Developed a process and application using PHP to cache data for quicker access for overseas web requests.  • Used PHPUnit and Behat to create automated acceptance tests.  • Created and enhanced WordPress plugins for use on customer-facing sites. Senior Programmer Indiana Farm Bureau Insurance - Indianapolis, IN August 2007 to November 2014 • Worked with business stakeholders to discuss their requirements and translate them into technical requirements and specifications.  • Customized vendor software to fit the needs of the business.  • Developed new internal Java applications using JDBC, XML, and JAXB to provide data to internal applications.  • Created automated unit test scripts using JUnit to ensure code stability during development  of Java applications.  • Developed new internal web applications using Google Web Toolkit, JavaScript, and XPath  to access those Java web services using AJAX.  • Created and executed manual unit test scripts to ensure functionality of delivered code.  • Helped the Quality Assurance Team to understand the intended functionality of web  applications to that they could write better acceptance tests.  • Participated in code review meetings to ensure that coding standards and best practices  were followed. Education Associate in Computer Information Systems Ivy Tech Community College - Bloomington, IN January 2004 to May 2007 Skills Javascript (9 years), PHP (4 years), XML (7 years), Java (7 years), Web Services (7 years), Angular JS (1 year), React JS (Less than 1 year), Automated Testing (5 years), Agile (2 years), React, Front-End, Front End, UI, CSS3 Awards Eagle Scout 1998-02 Eagle Scout with one Silver palm and one Bronze palm