Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer Riverview, FL Relevant Experience  ? Primary Developer for 50+ applications.   ? Over 1000 Hours dedicated to 3rd party integrations and compliance.   ? 4+ years’ experience in IT Support.  ? Lead Developer responsible for Database design, build, and release of extensive management solution for a multi-region business.  ? 3+ years’ experience in data management and security for Health Records based information.    Technology Competencies  ? Over 1500 Hours performing Customer Communication and implementation during high volume submission periods, including pre-and post-launch.  ? 5+ years of experience developing proprietary Database applications designed to meet specific sets of requirements, and using PHP, SQL, VBA.  ? 3+ years’ experience in creation of secure management systems, including scheduling, classification, indexing, and retention. Storage of business records within multiple Database formats and methods. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer WorkXpress - Harrisburg, PA March 2013 to Present ?       Responsible for development of multiple concurrent applications for a varied client base using WorkXpress’s tools and systems.   ?       Primary points of contact for all communication between Client and Development team.  ?       Responsible for Unit Testing protocols for non-primary applications, including classification and resolution of potential bugs prior to release.   ?       Secondary role assisting Design and Architecture team defining table structure and data modelling. Web Developer DVS Gaming - Boise, ID September 2016 to April 2018 Geed Squad Counter Agent Best Buy - Mechanicsburg, PA September 2014 to December 2015 Lead Install Technician M3T corporation - Mechanicsburg, PA September 2009 to March 2013 ·        Responsible for installing and programming access control equipment.  ·        Responsible for installing and IP’ing camera equipment.  ·        Responsible for overseeing 1-4 man crews.  ·        Responsible for maintaining current equipment on customer property.  ·        Responsible for troubleshooting and fixing faulty customer equipment in a timely manner. Engineering Technician II Gannett Fleming - camphil January 2005 to September 2009 ·        Responsible for reviewing construction drawings for developer-proposed sewer extensions in planned developments.   ·        Deals with contractors, developers, and other engineers to make sure that everything is done to specifications determined by the clients.   ·        Reviews shop drawings sent in by contractors to make certain that the materials they are using are compliant with client standards and specifications. Proficient with all versions of Microsoft Office. Electrician SECCO Home Services - Camp Hill, PA June 2001 to January 2005 ·        Dispatched to service calls to repair electrical equipment in customer’s residence.  ·        Maintaining proper codes : Electrically, light HVAC   ·        Responsible for Inventory management of materials on my truck. Education A.A. in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ 2010 Skills Linux (1 year), PHP (2 years), HTML (5 years), HTML 5 (5 years), Customer Service (5 years), CSS (5 years), Unit Testing (5 years), Data Modeling (5 years), XML (2 years), Javascript (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License