Freelance Publication Layout Designer Freelance Publication Layout Designer Graphic/ Web Designer & Web Developer Carlsbad, CA Professional Graphic Designer, Web Developer and certified Copyeditor specializing in graphic design, web production, SEO practices, content development, and digital marketing. I am a dependable and productive team member with excellent communication, problem-solving, and time management skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Publication Layout Designer The Harman Press - North Hollywood, CA 2016 to Present DMA Web Design, Owner Freelance Web Design & Development/Graphic Design - Carlsbad, CA 2005 to Present • Provide clients with a comprehensive range of communication and marketing services including web design, web development, shopping cart solutions, shopping cart management, web content development, Search Engine Optimization (SEO), social media marketing, email marketing, graphic design for print, logo design, and product packaging design. View online portfolio at http://www.dmawebdesign.com. Freelance Web Designer/ Developer Premium Gold Flax Products, Inc. - Denhoff, ND 2010 to 2017 Responsibilities  • Provide web design and development services for www.flaxpremiumgold.com and www.premiumgoldflax.com.   • Services include shopping cart management, product catalog management, web content development, SEO keyword strategy, social media marketing, web analytics reporting, product packaging design and photography, and ongoing website maintenance.  • Develop and edit website content and assist client in meeting FDA compliance for consumer-generated content.  • Manage social media campaigns, including product promotions and regular topical updates. Freelance Web Designer/ Developer NevadaPOLST.org - Reno, NV January 2014 to March 2015 • Managed the Request For Proposal (RFP) process, project timeline, design and implementation requirements, and subcontractor services.  • Provided web design and development services, including WordPress installation and customization,online form development, SEO integration, custom PayPal integration, client CMS training and ongoing website maintenance.  • Provide graphic design services including logo enhancements, brochure design, flyer design,  and Microsoft Word template design. Graphic Designer City of Carlsbad - Carlsbad, CA August 2013 to February 2014 • Designed print and digital marketing collateral for a broad range of events and community services in alignment with the City of Carlsbad branding guidelines.  • Team contributor to the redesign process of the City of Carlsbad logo.  • Design projects included logo development, brochures, posters, banners, rack cards, newsletters, forms, rule books, camp guides, community ads, online newsletters, cable access channel informational bulletin design and more. Freelance Web and Graphic Designer R&R Partners - Reno, NV December 2009 to June 2012 Responsibilities  • Responsible for layout and interaction design of websites, including HTML based websites, WordPress implementation and customization, email marketing design and delivery.  • Provided graphic design services for print material including brochures, rack cards, posters, print ads, direct mail, corporate design, newsletters, and more. Webmaster/Art Director Innerwest Advertising and Public Relations - Reno, NV June 2004 to February 2012 • Produced all client website design and development projects, including content development, SEO keyword strategy, email marketing, content development, website hosting, and email management.  • Designed and developed the company intranet, innerwestadv.com, and iwstrategies.biz.  • Provided press-ready graphic design support for a broad range of advertising and marketing collateral, including logo design, brochures, posters, corporate identity, direct mail, rack cards, newsletters, print ads, style guides, PowerPoint presentations, event programs, outdoor billboards, and more. Senior Web Designer/Graphic Designer mySimon.com, CNET Networks - San Francisco, CA July 1998 to July 2002 • Seventh employee hired at mySimon.com startup and served as lead designer under the Creative Director.  • Original designer of mySimon.com logo, prototype website, and marketing collateral supporting brand awareness and investor interest.  • Communicated and worked cross-functionally with teams from engineering, product, and product marketing to developing feature rich and user friendly web pages.  • Converted wire frames and comprehensive layouts into HTML prototypes for user testing.  • Worked with Marketing team to design and implement creative banner ad campaigns that targeted popular search themes while reinforcing the mySimon brand.  • Produced, designed, and developed event and product themed shopping guides and integrated co-branded partner content into mySimon branded micro-sites.  • Designed press-ready business and promotional materials including brochures, business cards, letterhead, office forms, mugs, vehicle wraps, signage and more. Education Copyediting Certificate University of California San Diego Extension - San Diego, CA 2013 to 2015 2nd Major under B.S. Mass Communications in Multimedia/HTML Authoring & Development Moorhead State University - Moorhead, MN 1995 to 1997 Bachelor of Science in Mass Communications: Advertising Minnesota State University - Moorhead, MN 1993 Skills • Expert user of Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Acrobat Pro, Dreamweaver, Microsoft Office Suite • Proficient in graphic design for print publishing • Proficient in HTML, CSS, WordPress installation and customization, CMS editing, SEO, cPanel administration and management, website host management • Proficient with Content Management Systems, shopping carts and ecommerce tools • Experienced in setup, build and delivery of HTML ready files for 3rd party email marketing programs • Knowledge of MySQL installation, reporting, user information retrieval, PHP interfacing and backups • Experienced in FTP client software • Familiar with cross-browser friendly HTML editing • Proficient in PC and MAC platforms • Experienced in digital asset management (10+ years), Adobe, Photoshop, Wordpress, Illustrator, Graphic Design Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/daloia/ Additional Information Pro-Bono/Volunteer Work    2018 – 2019  San Diego Wildlife Rescue, Wildlife Center Assistant    2017 – 2018  Sage Creek High School Parent Teacher Student Association (PTSA), Reflections Art Contest Program Coordinator    2016 – 2017  Parent Teacher Student Association (PTSA), Officer of Executive Board, Communications VP    2008 – 2015  SecretWitness.com - Northern Nevada Secret Witness, Reno, NV  • Redesigned, developed, and hosted a website for SecretWitness.com to provide an avenue for community members to provide information on a crime while remaining anonymous.  • Worked in conjunction with the Secret Witness Board of Directors to determine website goals, define messaging, and refine the online tip reporting system and the current cases database categories and results.  • Managed the Request For Proposal (RFP) process, project timeline, design and implementation requirements, and subcontractor services.  • Provided Secret Witness with a complete website redesign and custom content management solution, content management system training, website hosting services, and ongoing website maintenance and technical support.    2009 – 2012  Roy Gomm Elementary Parent Faculty Association, Reno, NV  • Designed, hosted, and maintained a custom website for Roy Gomm PFA, services included web design, web development, development and management of e-commerce product store, and PayPal integration.  • Designed the annual Roy Gomm Parent Handbook and Calendar.  • Created bi-weekly newsletter content, designed, published, and distributed the newsletter to school families and staff.  • Contributed to the design and production of the annual fundraising gala event invitation, posters, event signage, and online auction website.    2006 – 2011  AzizaFoundation.org, AzizaFoundationUK.org, Website Developer  • Designed, developed, and hosted a custom website for AzizaFoundation.org, AzizaFoundationUK.org, and Aziza’s Place.  • Services included web design, web development, graphic design, website hosting, email management, keyword strategy, PayPal implementation, and website form integration.