Senior UX Strategic Designer and Insights Lead Senior UX Strategic Designer and Insights Lead Senior User Experience Designer and Technical Lead Rolesville, NC Online portfolio can be viewed at www.claudia-cokis.com. Work Experience Senior UX Strategic Designer and Insights Lead Lenovo - Morrisville, NC September 2018 to Present • As a lead of the Insights team, we work cross-functionally with other User Experience Design teams and focus on market research.  • Establishes and maintains relationships with internal and external customers (Microsoft, Intel).  • Plan, budget, oversees and documents all aspects of monthly and bi-annual data-driven deliverable for a flawless executions every time.  • Use my creative talents to create visually pleasing and intuitive info-graphics, animations, eNewsletters, PowerPoints and large online/offline reports.  • Create and utilize journey mapping or other critical thinking to show the customer's journey while using Lenovo products (software or hardware), along with the competitors. Using customer sentiment, goals, and touch points to understand the clear path and channels the customers are taking.  • Actively presents to key stakeholders of the insights found and as a thought leader to recommend the best course of action.  • Plan and host brainstorming creative sessions to gather a list of ideas to later evaluate the results for the bi-annual report for future business ideas backed by data.  • Host educational sessions either put on by myself or by third party vendors like InVision.  • Participate in design reviews as seen as a Senior UX Designer and host design reviews as well.  • Strong, consistent, and compelling storyteller.  • Created and established the UXD's branding based off of the Lenovo Branding. Senior UX Designer and Technical Lead Lenovo - Morrisville, NC June 2016 to September 2018 • Lead technician on process improvements initiatives including SVN set up and other utilities aimed to improve performance and productivity. Always looking for innovative and technical ways to improve the team performance. Also, mentors other junior engineers on the team.  • Identifies risks and page performance issues to minimize an undesirable user experience.  • Translate metrics, research findings, user feedback, and user testing to define interaction models, user task flows, and UI specifications.  • Communicate and present scenarios, end-to-end experiences and interaction models to stakeholders.  • Designed, developed and support several team websites within Lenovo.  • Collaborate with user and business stakeholders to envision ways aimed to provide remarkable and memorable user experiences.  • Translate design and development process between business and development teams, creating pixel perfect high-fidelity prototypes with html, css and JavaScript.  • Produce design concepts that transition easily to different teams, including design assets, working prototypes and comps for Lenovo preload software applications.  • Senior designer, highly collaborative global team atmosphere with Agile development experience.  • Supports pre-loaded software apps for all of Lenovo Consumer, Commercial and Gaming Devices. Web Developer and Designer / CTG Lenovo - Morrisville, NC November 2014 to May 2016 • As a part of the Global Web Development part of day to day responsibilities would consist of debugging, creating and/or updating templates in TeamSite and creating prototypes. TeamSite would enable web content writers to create pages without needing to know code.  • Maintaining and troubleshooting Lenovo’s intranet and internet.  • Utilizing a variety of languages and technologies such as CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Handlebars, AngularJS, SASS, XSL, JSON, DCT and XML.  • Able to produce detailed wireframes and sitemaps within Visio using the JJ Garrett principles.  • Worked in an Agile environment that consisted of daily Scrum meetings, ability to write stories and scorestories effectively. Documentation, enhancements and maintainability of the code and documentation is amust.  • Ability to work within a team environment inclusive of designers, peer developers and business/requirements team that’s a large global team.  • Strong understanding of production, different environments and to examine changes to see if there are any risks involved.  • Able to be flexible to maintain several projects and to switch priorities quickly.  • Trained business users on new templates in TeamSite and also ongoing support. Also hosted show and tellson prototypes that have been developed. Senior Programmer Analyst Axure, InVision - Raleigh, NC October 2013 to November 2014 • Microsoft Office  • Sole developer to maintain and developed for www.firstcitizens.com, firstcitizens.mobi and to support the  (Excel, PowerPoint and web applications 24/7.  Word, Lync, Visio)  • Refine and iterate user experience by designing and implementing new modules and pages into firstcitizens.com. Utilizing CSS, PHP, JSON, HTML, MySQL and JavaScript. • Camtasia  • Capable of receiving direction as to the scope or specifications document, and accurately design and develop • Articulate  to meet those specifications. • Git  • Administered and maintained Google Tag Manager and Google Analytics. Monitored results and troubleshot • Notepad++  when needed to get optimum results. • Online Ad Serving  • Worked closely with the Business users to ensure Google Analytics/Universal is tracking correctly and able to  (24/7 and OpenX)  measure goals effectively and technically. Interactivity Developer Allen Interactions - Tampa, FL November 2011 to May 2013 • Worked with different departments in a highly-creative, collaborative and fast-paced custom e-learningprovider agency. Demonstrated the ability to take ideas from concept thru all phases to deliver the finalproduct.  • Implemented creative instructional design, from prototype to delivering the final e-learning course usingFlash, ActionScript, XML and Flash Builder.  • Created meaningful, memorable, and motivational e-learning experiences thru an Agile DevelopmentProcess.  • Created custom WordPress themes for B2B clients that ranged from membership sites, branded loginscreens, document depositories and employee portals.  • Performed a variety of e-learning production tasks other than programming when called upon. DesigningUI/UX visuals and conducting quality assurance for other developers. Web Designer and Developer Self-Exmployed - Tampa, FL April 2007 to November 2011 • Designed and developed custom WordPress themes for websites. Often converting .psd formats intoWordPress themes utilizing custom widgets, blog pages, and integration of social media or constant contactand database management.  • Prototypes and UI deliverables; including wireframes, flowcharts, and screen mock-ups.  • Technologies utilized: PHP, HTML 4/5, JavaScript and CSS 2/3. Ensuring cross-browser coding was properlycoded and tested.  • Actively reviewed and researched web analytics to ensure client’s message was propagated over differentchannels.  • Created online and offline corporate identities for small and medium sized companies. Education Bachelor Degree Business and Marketing / University of Phoenix - Tampa, FL September 2005 Associate in Visual design and Videography Tampa Technical College - Tampa, FL Links http://www.claudia-cokis.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/claudiacokis/ Certifications/Licenses Driver's License