AEM Architect AEM Architect Lead Architect- BPM & SOA - Westfield Group Philadelphia, PA • Around 11+ years of experience in IT industry with user interface design, technical framework creation and defining project sprint plans and releases  • Responsible for creating proposals and defining architecture for new applications.    • Mastery of all core web technologies Including XML, HTML, CSS and JavaScript    • Knowledge with cross-browser and cross-platform issues (IE, Firefox, Safari,.)    • Experience implementing, enhancing, and troubleshooting Adobe CQ5 installations    • Handled complex applications and migrated various applications to latest technologies.    • Creating Architecture document based on project requirement based on analysis and discussion with stake holders of project.    • Excellent knowledge on component based development in AEM/CQ technology from ver 5.5 to 6    • Built excellent teams on Adobe AEM /CQ5 for delivering complex projects across the industry.    • Been part of complete hiring process for new and experience graduates for building CQ team by training them on AEM / CQ technology.  • A dedicated UI/UX Web Designer/ Developer with over 7 years' experience providing expertise in web portals, E-commerce Modules, infrastructure management, multi-office environments including international locations, new office startups and closings and office space planning.    • Excels in building motivated teams focused on service excellence, operations support, networking, HTML emails, Twitter's Bootstrap framework, Mobile messaging systems, virtualization, systems administration, experienced in managing and taking projects from conception through implementation and completion for multi-office international environments.    • Excellent Practical exposure in UI/ Functional/ Regression/ Database/ User Acceptance/Browser/ Web Services testing.  • Expert in all stages of SDLC and Agile/Scrum Methodology  • Community development of Software Industries and Microsoft Plate Form (Shared Point, silver light, shared point and Window 8 apps) as a Microsoft Community Member and Microsoft Student Partner Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AEM Architect Westfield Group - New York, NY May 2016 to Present Designing Architecture and development of various components for master websites of our client. Master website would later on be the parent of many localizations. The development was high priority project involving some uphill tasks that needed to be developed in very stringent timelines. Entire development was done on AEM 6.0 using cognifide Zengarden framework. http://www.panadol.com    Responsibilities:  • Pre-discovery, discovery and Solution assessment of AEM, SAP hybris and Oracle Endeca.    • Design and implementation of Multi-product integrations with AEM.    • Hardware sizing, infrastructure design for Marketing Cloud and AEM applications.    • Oversee, consult and assist in initial technical setup and installation of base products.    • Large Migration, Integration and Asset Management expertise.    • Technologies: Adobe DTM, Jenkins, . Apache Nexus, Git, SVN, Eclipse, OSGi, HTML, Javascript, CSS, extJS, Apache HTTP, dispatcher, Okta, Sling Models, Sightly, SAML, SSO, Web Services, CQ Clientlibs.    • Maintaining Log files and coordinating with development teams.    • Applying patches, service packs and upgrading to latest version of AEM.    • Dispatcher configuration for better performance of application code.    • Deploying older AEM applications to latest AEM server and communicate problems with development teams.  • Worked in Onsite - Offshore model. AEM Architect American Cancer Society - Atlanta, GA August 2013 to April 2016 The American Cancer Society (ACS) is a nationwide voluntary health organization dedicated to eliminating cancer. Established in 1913, the society is organized into eleven geographical divisions of both medical and lay volunteers operating in more than 900 offices throughout the United States. Its home office is located in the American Cancer Society Center in Atlanta, Georgia. The ACS publishes the journals Cancer, CA: A Cancer Journal for Clinicians and Cancer Cytopathology.    Responsibilities:  • Participates in technical design reviews, functional specification reviews, and contributes to development project estimates, scheduling, test plans, and code reviews  • Handling a team and meetings regularly to keep track of project progress. Release meetings to understand issues in staging and production.  • Creating Components and templates, pages using Adobe AEM.    • Work with REST, SOAP web services to get data from API calls.    • Creating design document for change requests.    • Administration knowledge on OSGI Sling Platform, Deployment & Packaging, CQ repository JCR & Jackrabbit.  • Monitoring log files and communicating with AEM Developers.    • Experience in AEM User administration.    • Installing AEM service packs and taking regular backups of applications    • Working knowledge on Importing, Exporting CQ Packages & Bundles.    • Worked in Onsite - Offshore model. AEM Developer American Cancer Society - Atlanta, GA January 2011 to July 2013 The American Cancer Society (ACS) is a nationwide voluntary health organization dedicated to eliminating cancer. Established in 1913, the society is organized into eleven geographical divisions of both medical and lay volunteers operating in more than 900 offices throughout the United States. Its home office is located in the American Cancer Society Center in Atlanta, Georgia. The ACS publishes the journals Cancer, CA: A Cancer Journal for Clinicians and Cancer Cytopathology.    Responsibilities:  • Participates in technical design reviews, functional specification reviews, and contributes to development project estimates, scheduling, test plans, and code reviews  • Handling a team and meetings regularly to keep track of project progress. Release meetings to understand issues in staging and production.  • Creating Components and templates, pages using Adobe AEM.    • Work with REST, SOAP web services to get data from API calls.    • Creating design document for change requests.    • Administration knowledge on OSGI Sling Platform, Deployment & Packaging, CQ repository JCR & Jackrabbit.    • Monitoring log files and communicating with AEM Developers.    • Experience in AEM User administration.    • Installing AEM service packs and taking regular backups of applications    • Working knowledge on Importing, Exporting CQ Packages & Bundles.    • Worked in Onsite - Offshore model. CQ Developer General Motors, Newyork August 2009 to December 2010 General Motors - http://www.gm.com is a company's main flagship website built using CQ and the GM sells Cars, trucks and other automotive products through its catalogs online. I was involved in development, design and giving suggestions to client on how to do implementation. This website allows customers to browse products and purchase them online from different parts of USA. Web url is http://www.gm.com/index.html    Responsibilities:  • Developing application front end using HTML, CSS, Javascript and used other frameworks.    • Creating custom components using best practices.    • Installed and Configured CQ5 Web Content management System and Apache Felix Admin Console.  • Monitoring logs and communicating errors with development teams.    • Maintaining users in CQ server with various access rights.    • Done dispatcher configuration and maintaining of clusters.    • Replicating applications from author instance to publish instance.    • Installing patches and uploading any service packs    • Fixing errors and bugs related to server on daily basis    • Installed CRXDE Integrated development environment and Configuration of the project with Subversion version control.    • Involved in building, deploying the code and moving code to different environments.    • Involved in supporting the application post production and maintenance.    • Experience working in an agile environment, involved in daily standup meetings. Web Developer CITY OF PHARR TEXAS - Pharr, TX August 2008 to June 2009 At the City of Pharr I am responsible for building new WordPress  based websites for departments within the city government. I am also in charge of maintaining the current websites which are also built on the WordPress CMS. On a daily  basis I switch in between working on a project to working on and closing a work order  ("usually updating or adding new and current information to the main city government  website.").    Responsibilities:  • Developing application front end using HTML, CSS, Javascript and used other frameworks.    • Designing HTML pages    • Migrating old design to new designs.    • Designing pages in Dreamweaver and Photoshop    • Fixing browser compatibility issues. Freelance Projects and Consultancy January 2006 to July 2008 Digital and social campaign design    Responsibilities:  • Design all dynamic web pages, web changes and update official website of University.  • Built student's user stories  • Create Poster and broachers for yearly admission campaign.  • Ability to share new and innovative ideas and solutions along with documenting clear justification for design decisions with relevant supporting data.  • Remote work, with daily, weekly and bi-weekly deliverables.•  • Thesis Management System for IQRA University  Responsibilities:  Design Responsive Screens of the University portal. Developed on PHP, html5+CSS3, Bootstrap+ JQuery+ JavaScript +API.    • Courses registration and management System for IQRA University  Responsibilities: Design Responsive Screens of the University portal. Developed on PHP, html5+CSS3, Bootstrap+ JQuery+ JavaScript +API.  • Support delivery by responding to questions from cross-functional team members.    • Apartment's Rent and billing Management System for Dubai Base farm  Responsibilities: All dynamic customization, Develop Flow of application. Built completely secure form for user interaction. Easily generate bills for tenants  • Support delivery by responding to questions from cross-functional team members.    • Design POS (POINT OF SALE) Responsive screens  Responsibilities: Senior Designer and Lead the UI Project. Built form for user interaction.    Which was built on PHP, html5+CSS3, Bootstrap+ JQuery+ JavaScript +API. Integrate many barcode hardware.    • Remote work, with daily, weekly and bi-weekly deliverables.    • Adobe Certified Expert - AEM  • Received AUTOCAD 2d/3d CERTIFICATE Presented by Computer Colligate  • Received Microsoft Student Partner Certificate (2009 to 2013) Presented by Microsoft  • Received Certificate of Appreciation 2015 Presented by Microsoft  • Received Microsoft Community Award 2011 Presented by Microsoft  • Received Letter of Appreciation and Award for delivering lecture on Web Development Awarded by Computer Engineering Department of Sir Syed University  • Received Letter of Appreciation for delivering lecture on Web Technologies Presented by Institute of Business & Technology    • Received CISO SUMMIT ITCN ASIA organizer Award 2012 Presented by Pakistan  • information security association(PISA)  • Received Certificate of Appreciation Presented by British Council  • Received Certificate of Organizer 2013 awarded by Mohammad Ali Jinnah University  • Certificate of Appreciation for Ushering in MAJU Convocation 2010 awarded by Mohammad Ali Jinnah University  • Received Certificate of Organize Seminars awarded by Seminar Society of Mohammad Ali  • Jinnah University (MAJU)  • Certificate of Skilled Workers S-II Level Presented by Technical Education & Vocational Training Authority Manpower and Training Wing Education Bachelor's Aptech Computer Education Skills AUTOCAD (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), CSS (3 years), HTML (3 years), html5 (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills    Architect experience with Adobe AEM 5.5 / 5.6 / 6.0 / 6.1 / 6.2    Expert in Following Languages:    Sightly, MySQL, Php, Html, Html 5 CSS+Css3, Bootstrap, OOP, JQuery, Java Scripting, AJAX    Software and Technologies:    Adobe AEM, Adobe CRX, Adobe Flash    Platforms HTML5, Bootstrap, Word press, Joomla, Open Cart, Visual Studio 2010, Dreamweaver, UML Architecture Design  AUTOCAD 3D/2D ILLUSTRATION    Proficient with Adobe Photoshop, and, Acrobat Reader, Open Office, MS Office 2016, Video Editing and Mixing (Sony Vegas Pro 8.0)    Experienced with Agile and Waterfall software development methodology    Skilled with Microsoft Project 2016, Open Office, MS Office 2016, Jira, Zoho-  Crm project management software and, Trac Testing Tool  Experienced with Microsoft Vision, Axure, Enterprise Architect 7.1 Tools