Senior Web Consultant Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> Consultant Senior Web Consultant - TDAmeritrade Roseville, CA Work Experience Senior Web Consultant TDAmeritrade - Columbia, MD April 2016 to Present Admin/ Developer for Adobe AEM, OpenText's TeamSite/Livesite Applications.  • Provide day-to-day support and maintenance of both Adobe AEM and TeamSite Apps. that provide content  for the Retail Marketing (www.tdameritrade.com), Retail Secure (logged in version of www.tdameritrade.com) and Institutional (www.tdainstitutional.com) sites along w/ multiple micro-sites  • Client Side Developer and Server Side Developer for multiple on-going and new projects/business  initiatives for both the Retail Marketing and Retail Secure sites  • Part of the team that successfully migrated the OpenText's application suite (TeamSite, LiveSite, OpenDeploy) to version 8.0  ? Worked with TDAmeritrade's internal business teams, development teams, project management and QA team to co-ordinate on the project.  ? Created and implemented Test scenarios based on various Business Use Cases as part of the upgrade  project. Lead - WCM Systems Analyst/ Developer PG&E - San Francisco, CA July 2011 to April 2016 Systems Analyst and SME for HP's TeamSite/Livesite WCM Application.  • Support and maintain Development projects for pge.com, m.pge.com, and pgecorp.com based on changing  business requirements to content, user interface, accessibility requirements, etc.  • Architect and Analyst to successfully migrate the HP WCM/CMS application suite (TeamSite, LiveSite, OpenDeploy) to version 7.4.1    ? Worked with PGE's internal business team, internal/external development teams, and project  management team to co-ordinate on the project.  ? Created and implemented Test scenarios based on various Business Use Cases as part of the upgrade  project.  ? Conducted extensive A/B/n testing utilizing Optimizely dashboard for both pge.com and m.pge.com  sites specifically on Residential and Business pages.  ? Supported section 508 WCAG level AA compliance.  • Created various scripts and automation to manage and deploy the customer data captured from various  application components to the target business customers for each of those applications.  • WCM Trainer for all internal Editors and customers  • Mentor junior onshore/offshore Developers WCM Systems Analyst/ Developer BLUE SHIELD OF CALIFORNIA - San Francisco, CA June 2007 to July 2011 Principal SME, Systems Analyst, Developer, and Project Manager for various WCM related projects, and front-end  lead of the Channel Solutions Intranet site.  • Main Business/Systems Analyst for the TeamSite to SDL Tridion migration for the blueshieldca.com site  ? Responsible for gathering Business requirements  ? Overseeing Systems setup, data migration and conduct test validations  ? Used Agile methodology with daily scrums leveraging the ThoughtWorks Mingle site for overall  project management.  • Main Teamsite Analyst and Project Manager for Teamsite upgrade from Ver. 6.5 SP2 to Ver. 6.7.1 SP 1  • Main Developer on the Channel Solutions team responsible for managing Blue Shield's site  • Project Manager and front-end lead on the SCRM Intranet redesign project  ? Maintain project plan and coordinate workload of project team  ? Provide weekly progress report to upper management Consultant CHARLES SCHWAB & CO. INC - San Francisco, CA April 2006 to June 2007 Information Architect/ Web Designer/ Developer  Main Web Designer/ Developer and Subject Matter Expert (SME) of various Web Applications for the Schwab  Intranet (Schweb). Co-lead of the Intranet team.  • Lead in all Web design/development efforts for the Schweb Intranet  • Lead and main Developer for MS Sharepoint / Infopath site; managing 3-4 offshore resources  • Component Developer of Schwab's Livesite implementation  • Main Developer of a planned upgrade to Interwoven Teamsite Ver. 6.7.1  • Lead/ Web Admin for Watchfire and Webtrends applications; managing 4 offshore resources. Lead/SME  for the successful upgrade of Webtrends from Ver. 6.01c to 8.0 Consultant CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS - San Jose, CA July 2004 to April 2006 Business Analyst / Webmaster / Developer  Main Web Developer and Webmaster for a list of internal sites like HR, Finance, and Legal.  • Manage the Intranet using Lotus Domino and Interwoven Teamsite  • Interface with customers to generate specifications and requirements documents. Part-time Project  Manager generating project plans and setting deliverables  ? Manage overall project deliverables  ? Maintain project plan and coordinate progress with internal customers  • Senior UI and Usability expert providing guidance on Web best practices  • Codeveloper and tester on upcoming projects like IBM's Websphere Portal Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Engineering California State - Long Beach, CA Skills Teamsite, Vss, Opentext, Asp, Css, Iis, Security, Sharepoint, Tomcat, Weblogic, Websphere, Webtrends, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Perl, Pvcs, Xml Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/roblim Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Analytics / Tagging Google Analytics, Tealium, Optimizely, Webtrends  Dev Process Agile, SCRUM, Waterfall  Databases MySQL, Oracle and SQL Server  Framework AngularJS, Backbone, Bootstrap, Foundation, Maven  Graphics Fireworks, Illustrator, Photoshop  Languages / Technologies ASP, CSS, HTML 5, Javascript, JSON, JQuery, JDBC, JSP, Perl, SQL, XML  Platforms Sun OS/Solaris, UNIX, Linux and Windows  Software Confluence, Git, Jira, PVCS, Perforce, Remedy, Samba, Tracker, Vantive, VSS  Software- Web ActiveStandards, Adobe AEM, OpenText Teamsite/Livesite, SAP/BO, MS  Sharepoint /Infopath, NetTracker, IBM Security AppScan  Web/App Server(s) Apache/Tomcat, Microsoft IIS, Sun One, Weblogic, Websphere