Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Boston, MA Work Experience Web Developer LightForce Orthodontics - Cambridge, MA May 2018 to May 2019 Automated CI/CD pipeline using AWS services such as Elastic Beanstalk, CloudWatch, and CloudFront  Built frontend using Angular 7 and Typescript and the backend using Express.js and PostgreSQL  Integrated Amazon SES into api by writing services and routes to call services  Practiced BDD using Jasmine, Mocha, Chai, and Sinon  Worked diligently and effectively in an agile scrum environment with 1-week sprints using Jira to keep track of tasks Program Manager for Javascript Young People's Project - Boston, MA February 2018 to May 2018 Facilitate course for high school students that teaches HTML, CSS, Javascript, and Python  Assemble four boot camps where high school students teach Boston Public School middle school students the information they learned in class  Gather data to track progress of high school and middle school students to ensure efficiency of the course Web Development Immersive Student General Assembly - Boston, MA August 2017 to November 2017 Enrolled in General Assembly's 12 week, 600+ hour Web Development Immersive program for full stack web development. Built front end and full stack  applications using technologies like HTML5, SCSS, Bootstrap, Javascript, jQuery, AJAX, Ruby, Rails, PostgreSQL, third party API integration and more.    Projects:  Tic-Tac-Glow: A front-end app for playing the classic game Tic-Tac-Toe with a glow-in-the-dark theme, built with HTML, CSS, Javascript, and jQuery  https://deejay94.github.io/ttt-game-project1/    My Favorite Movies: A full-stack app allowing users to add their favorite movies, the genre, and a comment to a list. Users are also able to edit and delete information. Front-end built with HTML, jQuery, Handlebars, SCSS, and Javascript. Back-end built with Ruby on Rails and SQL.  https://deejay94.github.io/favorite-movies/    Sserpdrow: A content management system, similar to Wordpress, that allows users to create, read, edit, and delete blogs. Front-end built with HTML, CSS, Javascript, and Handlebars. Back-end built with Node.js, Express.js, MongoDB, and Mongoose.  https://d0minators.github.io/CMS/    Budget-Tracker: A full-stack app where users can keep track of their budget. They input their budget goal and their actual budget, then the app  displays how much they are over or under their budget. Front-end built with Ember, Javascript, HTML, and SCSS. Back-end built with Ruby on Rails.  https://deejay94.github.io/budget/ Provisioning Analyst Fuze - Cambridge, MA September 2016 to February 2017 Assisted network engineers in setting up client's communication services  Identified, prevented, and resolved issues in collaboration with support engineers  Developed specifications implemented into order management system, improving accuracy and efficiency Junior Technical Support Specialist Boston, MA May 2016 to August 2016 Configured hardware, upgrades, and troubleshooting of many different computer-based systems  Answered user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems  Developed training materials and procedures and trained users in the proper use of hardware or software Education Bachelor's degree in Computer Engineering Technology in https Wentworth Institute of Technology 2016 Skills Api, Javascript, Node.js, Typescript, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Postgresql, Css, Mongodb, Html5, Rest Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/dahnayajoyner Additional Information SKILLS  Angular 7, Express.js, PostgreSQL, REST API, Node.js, Javascript, Ruby on Rails, TypeScript, Jasmine, Mocha, Chai, AWS, HTML5, CSS, MongoDB