Website Developer, Owner & Operator Website <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Owner &amp; Operator Website Developer Conifer, CO Actively looking for a full time or contract remote Website Development position, building websites (not software or apps). Preferably with a company that specializes in building websites for clients, less interested in large companies that have a web department.     I have a great passion for working in our ever changing industry. Always excited to jump into a challenging new project or learn new skills. Excellent with mobile first, responsive design, HTML, CSS (Sass & Less), versioning (Git) and Content Management Systems. Currently working with CSS Grid and Flexbox, while expanding my knowledge of JavaScript and jQuery. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Website Developer, Owner & Operator SKR Design LLC - Conifer, CO June 2003 to Present Frontend website development company specializing in designing and building custom web sites with a focus on reflecting the client's identity online within budget and on time. Handle all aspects of the project from design concept, branding, coding, launching and maintaining the site. Focus on building sites that reflect the client in the best way while providing a positive, easy to navigate experience for the user. For clients who want to update their own content, the site is added to a CMS.    SKR Design currently has four active clients; most have been with the company for over 9 years, while the newest client is under two years old. Clients are listed on the portfolio website, https://www.skrdesign.com. Advanced Web Builder ProfitStars, a Jack Henry & Associates Inc. Company - Brentwood, TN January 2014 to April 2019 Hired after a six month contract. Worked in Nashville office until moving to Conifer in July of 2017.     Work independently building responsive websites for banking and financial institutions based on the designer provided mockups. Sites are built using Bootstrap, HTML5, Sass, JavaScript, jQuery, Git, Node, Gulp, and Grunt. Built to meet WCAG AA ADA standards, cross browser and device compatibility, and are added to a Content Management System within project timelines.    Web Builder Process Documentation team member. Process is updated constantly to reflect the constant industry changes and our documentation must reflect that for other builders to reference. Indie Rock Band Publicist & Webmaster Sarah Russell - Nashville, TN March 2009 to June 2017 Design, build and maintain band websites for Black Market Research (2009-2017) and Tyrone Carreker (2012-2014). Regularly design and send out email newsletters to fans. Represent the band on social media and at shows in Nashville. Ran three successful Kickstarter campaigns that funded recording sessions and production of three band albums. Content Developer Acxiom - Nashville, TN July 2009 to January 2014 Promoted from Content Specialist.  HTML specialist responsible for integrating, testing and approving high quality business to-customer emails. Create emails that render responsively across browsers and mobile devices. Provide suggestions and recommendations directly to the client. Content leads on clients, Sam's Club and American Cancer Society.    Member of the following groups; Platform Quality Assurance Group, Associate Satisfaction Survey Results Committee and Axciom’s Nashville Office Events Committee. Education Bachelor's in Design - Visual Communications Design University of Alberta - Edmonton, AB Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Bootstrap (3 years), Foundation (6 years), Git (5 years), Node (5 years), WCAG AA ADA Compliance standards (5 years), CSS Grid (Less than 1 year), Flexbox (Less than 1 year), Responsive design (6 years), Mobile first design (2 years), Command line (6 years), Photoshop (10+ years), Illustrator (10+ years), Visual Studio (1 year), Content Management Systems (10+ years), Mac OS X (10+ years), PC (10+ years), Javascript (4 years), JQuery (3 years), Social Media Marketing (9 years), Node (5 years), Word (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), SEO (10+ years), Communications skills (10+ years), Time Management, Creative Suite (6 years), Teamwork (10+ years) Links https://skrdesign.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/sarah-russell-a133049/ Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information RECENT SITE BUILDS    SKR Design LLC – My portfolio site   https://www.skrdesign.com  January 2019  In January, this portfolio site was rebuilt to reflect the wonderful changes in our industry toward Flexbox and CSS Grid layouts. The homepage is a Flexbox layout, while the interior page layout was more suited to CSS Grid. The design concept came from a love of books. Books and websites are very much the same – a medium for information or telling a story. The mobile first, responsive site was built with a Foundation 6 base, Yarn, Sass, Flexbox and CSS Grid.    Central Bank of Kansas City  https://www.centralbankkc.com  April 2019  The site was a custom build while I was at ProfitStars. The designer provided Illustrator mock up files for me to reference. Mobile first, responsive site built with a Bootstrap 3 base, Node, Sass, JavaScript, Flexbox, and Parallax homepage. Project version control with Git. Built to WCAG AA ADA standards, SEO optimized, cross browser and device tested. Added to a Content Management System for the client to make their own content updates.     Foothill Flyers Disc Golf Club  https://www.ffdgc.net  August 2019  I designed and built this mobile first, responsive site with a stripped down Foundation 6 base, Yarn, Sass, CSS Grid, Parallax homepage, and sticky navigation bar. Version control with Git, SEO optimized, WCAG AA ADA standards, cross browser and device tested. The client makes content updates with a Content Management System.