Web Application Developer Contractor <span class="hl">Web</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Contractor Web Application Developer Contractor - American Recovery Service El Dorado Hills, CA Application Programmer/Analyst with proven skills in Oracle PL/SQL, VBA, ASP.NET Web Development, Unix  shell, data migration, production support, and data analysis.    Technology Summary  • JavaScript, JQuery • Oracle 11g PL/SQL • EDI Application Development  • C#, VB.Net • Microsoft VBA • Progress 4GL/OpenEdge  • MS SQL Server 2012 T-SQL • Unix shell scripting(15 years) • Angular 4  • Microsoft Visual Studio 2015, 2017 • TortoiseSVN •Team Foundation Server  • PostgreSQL Work Experience Web Application Developer Contractor American Recovery Service - El Dorado Hills, CA January 2019 to Present ASP.NET Web Developer in small IT development team. Responsible for 3 high traffic web-sites that drive  business from the Repo Agents, Lenders, and Call Center web-sites. Improve the look and feel via CSS3 and dynamic styling. Fix server side issues in VB.NET and PostgreSQL stored procedures. Added enhancements to  streamline reporting car repossessions.    Experience: VB.NET, PostgreSQL, HTML, CSS3, Visual Studio 2015, Team Foundation Server. ERP Consultant RFgen/Datamax Software Group - El Dorado Hills, CA March 2018 to November 2018 Software development utilizing RFgen Mobile development studio to transact between client's ERPs.  Experience transacting through Microsoft Dynamics AX ERP services, Costpoint Deltek ERP XML Cloud  APIs, Oracle EBS Erp, and Access Databases. Forms and programs written in Microsoft VBA, Oracle SQL  and MS SQL server extracts to seamlessly interface with the ERP database to create transactions for warehouse solutions with and without WIFI connectivity.    Experience: VBA, MS SQL Server, Oracle, Microsoft Dynamics AX ERP services, Costpoint Deltek XML  Cloud APIs, Oracle EBS, Access. Web Applications Developer Infinite Technologies Inc - El Dorado Hills, CA January 2016 to January 2018 Full Stack software solutions to improve the efficiency of budgeting, funding and resource allocation for the United States Air Force. Responsible for ASP.NET 4.5 Web Development utilizing HTML5, CSS3,  JavaScript, JQuery, and C# and VB.Net to manage interaction between the User Interface and the Oracle  11g Database back-end. Developed in Microsoft Visual Studio 2017.    ? Developed dynamic web pages utilizing the logic layer in C# and VB.net to bind data to grids, web  pages.  ? Created/modified server side Oracle PL/SQL procedures, functions, packages, triggers and scripts.  ? Front-End GUI Development using HTML, Javascript, Jquery for ASP.NET web pages.  ? Utilized PageMethods, AJAX to call C# and VB.Net middle layer, and Oracle PL/SQL  procedures/functions.  ? Improved performance of critical Oracle PL/SQL database procedures.  ? Angular 4 development to rehost existing websystems.  ? Development cycled through formal releases, and production support. TortoiseSVN Windows  Version control utilized for all source code. Oncor Insurance of Transamerica - Folsom, CA 2017 to 2017 Systems Engineer/Software Developer June 2014 to December 2016 Designed and implemented improvements to the in-house software application. Programs written in Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) Access, and stored procedures in SQL server 2012.  ? Re-designed the Applicant data entry form by replacing hard-coded logic with a data-driven design to  dynamically color fields required to complete the application. Requirements change depending on the life  insurance product being sold.  ? Developed a process for managing the primary source of business, the direct mailings from external sources  and internal data extracts, using data modeled SQL queries and in-house developed data cleaning utilities.  ? Created and maintained client paramedical email jobs in SQL Server via stored procedures, utilizing cursors  and embedded HTML. Make use of CSS HTML in Access VBA Emails to clients.  ? Mail merge enhancements utilizing stored procedures as the data source, VBA Access and VBA in Word  documents to manage printing of PDF forms. Ported the Access VBA application and the mail merge Word  VBA application from a locally hosted server to a thin Client.    Experience: MS SQL Server PL/SQL, VBA, Access Form Development, Excel, Mail Merge. Senior Programmer/ Data Analyst HD Supply Repair and Remodel - Roseville, CA March 2013 to June 2014 Key player in the phased-in data migration/integration effort from a legacy Unify 4GL ERP package on IBM Unix to the Microsoft Dynamics AX ERP and POS. AX written in Axtapa X++ with MorphX IDE. Responsible for designing,  developing and testing programs to migrate critical business data to AX, and near real-time Integration back to the Legacy Unify ERP as a result of the phased-in rollout to AX and AX POS.  ? Developed Unix shell scripts with embedded SQL utilizing awk, join, sed and other shell tools to translate  to/from AX data formats.  ? Pre/Post Migration data analysis using SQL server ad hoc queries and embedded SQL to pull data into Excel, utilizing Vlookups for analysis on proving the data is solid, and to migrate missing data.  ? Key integration tester to ensure data migrated into AX. Worked with users for training/testing/developing  methods to mass load data into AX using spreadsheets.    Experience: MS SQL Server, Microsoft Dynamics AX data integration, Unify SQL, Unix Shell scripting, Access, Excel, VLookups. Senior Database Programmer/Analyst Video Products Distributors, Inc - Folsom, CA June 1997 to November 2012 Customized the FDM4 Financial Distribution Management (ERP) powered by Progress/OpenEdge database  engine software package for a leading US video and game distributor. Supported business-critical applications for accounting, sales, operations, management, purchasing, external customers and vendors. Programs written in  Progress 4GL and shell scripts within the IBM UNIX environment.  ? Saved approximately $500,000 annually in reduced freight expenses by creating a smart order consolidations  algorithm for customer orders, vendor returns and warehouse transfers.  ? Developed hundreds of reports & data conversions, thousands of ad hoc queries, and several dashboards.  ? Designed, developed and trained users for custom rebate software that accurately calculates earned rebates  monthly. This tool reconciled millions of dollars every month, and posted debits to A/P.  ? Integral team player that customized reporting extracts to format and email an Excel file to the requestor.  ? Created the mechanism to manage company-wide sales goals for tracking and reporting.  ? Heavily modified inbound 850 EDI Purchase Order import, UI, and matching for A/P invoice reconciliation.  Programmed the back-end for a variety of inbound and outbound EDI (810,856) transactional data sets.  ? Created a UI tool to manage an unlimited number of customer orders by a single sales representative.  Eliminated manual order management, freeing up to 10 workers.  ? Designed the company's batching mechanism using UNIX shell scripts and UNIX crontab.  ? Designed and developed the data model for credit representatives to manage customer statements and scheduling.    Experience: Progress OpenEdge 4GL Expertise(over 15 years), Unix Shell scripting, EDI. Education BS in Computer Science and Business Administration-Marketing California State University Skills HTML5, Javascript, Jquery Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/jennifer-jensen/25/868/491