Senior Technician - external support Senior Technician - external support Web Developer/ IT Technician Fairfield, CA I'm a professional IT network administrator/help desk support and web developer with 23 years of experience in the field and remote support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Technician - external support UPS - San Francisco, CA July 2007 to Present • UPS    Helped UPS customers' setup UPS software on their systems for shipping. Made customized integrations using vbscript as needed. Troubleshoot workstations and printers. Senior Technician UPS - San Francisco, CA June 1996 to Present • Internal technician in charge of deploying new equipment, like workstations, printers, servers, phones, switches. Troubleshoot problems on systems, routers, switches, servers, and replace them as needed. Also end support to users with problems using proprietary software. Senior Technician Region support, UPS June 1996 to Present • Moved from district level support to Region support which encompasses half of the United States, also for Canada and Mexico. Remotely support customer with higher specific business need requiring high level integration with UPS software. I use proprietary UPS Programming language to accomplish this. Meeting and conferencing with customers and UPS partners to analyze information data for the best course of action to provide the optimum resources to customer. Web Developer UPS Present • I write web applications for internal users throughout the country for all regions and districts. Applications vary from reports to new procedures that save time or increase productivity. Web Applications are developed using Cold Fusion, JavaScript, SQL server and various libraries to enhance performance and readability. Education AA Skyline College 1996 to 2000 Skills Information Technology, Desktop Support, Comptia, Help Desk, It Specialist Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified Present Additional Information Computer Skills    Basic skills  I have extended knowledge of Microsoft products including Office 2003/2010/2013/2016. SQL server, JavaScript, Cold Fusion, web development.    Software  I troubleshoot and install proprietary software and build systems using automated WIPS procedures setup by corporate. I develop internal websites using Cold Fusion, JavaScript, and SQL server.    Scripting  I work with customers to create customized integrations from customer's databases to integrate to their shipping software and make the process more automated and easier to manage. This requires writing code to meet customer needs as needed by their business rules.