Front-end Web Developer Front-end <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front-end Web Developer at Webimax Philadelphia, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front-end Web Developer Webimax February 2012 to Present Webimax 02/2012 to Present Loafin' Tree LLC 04/2003 to Present  Front-end Web Developer Internet Consulting and Graphic Design  Design and development for C2C including custom design, HTML,  .NET  CSS, Jquery work, integrating custom designs into ASP Storefront, Design, development and marketing services including internet  Wordpress, Joomla, graphic design for web, and branding print mate- presence, print design, corporate identity, digital photo editing, product  rial. Maintenance of existing client websites. Multiple project assign- photography, project management, online and remote consulting.  ments per day. 4 month contract to hire. Internet services have included design, development, hosting,  programming, e-mail, cd applications, web applications, SEO/SEM, Owner/President Loafin' Tree LLC - Philadelphia, PA April 2003 to Present Project management/remote & onsite consulting. Internet services have included design, development, hosting, programming, e-mail, CD applications, web applications, SEO/SEM, statistics, e-commerce and online security. Also print design, corporate identity, digital photo editing, and product photography.    SELECT LOAFIN’ TREE LLC (Freelance) PROJECTS    Virginia Classic Mustang – Replaced small eBay presence with e-commerce site with over 7,000 products and ~$750,000 in internet sales the first year. Developed API to integrate custom business application with e-commerce site for inventory and product management. Developed new branding. Designed annual 220 page print catalog. Full page magazine ads.    Certainteed – Developed interactive sales tool for the international pipes division including product catalog and support documentation on DVD with capabilities for continual updates via web API.    Frontline Solutions – Created 3 template themes for Wordpress integrating business’s proprietary .NET application. UI improvements to application.    RentalMatchup– Custom AJAX web application, branding and web development for apartment rental postings and search website in the Shenandoah Valley.    BEVI (Beliefs, Events and Values Inventory) – Custom web application and database design/development for research project directed by Dr. Shealy at James Madison University.    Motorola – Branding and mobile phone skin designs.    Asurion – Create mobile sales tool for JCPenney, Dicks, and Guitar Center. Senior Web Developer Temple University - Philadelphia, PA January 2013 to June 2019 ·        Responsible for 35-40 websites of Klein College and Temple University media websites (TV, newspaper, radio, yearbook).  ·        Lead for web developers/designers and student workers in Klein Technical Support Office.  ·        Responsible for web applications budget.  ·        Selected for Management Academy. Completed team project presentation: Evaluation and suggestions to improve support of veteran students at Temple University.  ·         Web and Wordpress support for all students, faculty, and staff.  ·        Two branding changes from School of Communications and Theater to School of Media and Communication and subsequently to Lew Klein College of Media and Communication.  ·        Rebuilt School of Media and Communications (Klein College) website and all department websites to make responsive (mobile friendly), and adhere to Temple brand standards.  ·        Lead for School on ADA compliance across all websites, digital and printed forms and policies.  ·        Assisted graduate office in creating online application and digital workflow for grad applications and department reviews on Microsoft CRM.  ·        Transition team moving College marketing site from Wordpress to Drupal under the care of the University's Strategic Marketing and Communications department.  ·        Separated all internal/external content and assisted University portal team to host internal content and all forms and policies on TUPortal.  ·        Currently responsible for Klein College related content, forms, and policies on the University portal.  ·        Recently transitioned to dedicated server vendor resulting in average 10X website loading time improvement   ·        and 46% cost savings.  Manage web and database servers with WHM and cPanel.  ·        Supervise Wordpress installations including security, role management, updates, backups, domain registration, DNS records, and custom projects.  ·        Advise students, staff, and faculty on best practices, functionality, and uses as website administrators.  ·        Advise and assist collaborative non-profit partners with joint web properties. Senior Developer H4B Catapult January 2012 to February 2012 Select Client Projects: Short term assignment using HTML5, CSS, Javascript and JQuery Motorola - logo design and mobile phone skin designs to assist in the development of iPad Sales apps for the Health and Certainteed - web banner ads, application cd for pipes division  Pharmaceutical industry. Tools - Mac and Adobe CS. Loafin' Tree Select Clients continued: Frontline Solutions - Created 3 Wordpress templates with .NET Technical Director Virginia Department of Health January 2011 to February 2012 CloudCaps (pre-funded Start-up) 01/2011 to 02/2012 application integrated. UI graphics upgrade.  Virginia Department of Health - promotional products and wearables,  Technical Director logo design, consultation  Defined project specifications, target dates and budget for technical  Virginia Classic Mustang - logo design, ad design, catalog design,  team along with 36 month projections. Responsible for talent acquisi- e-commerce web site, custom programming, photography, SEO,  tion, server administration, version control using Mercurial and limited  consulting  front-end coding. Designed initial logo and website for pre-curser,  Rockingham Memorial Hospital - website hosting, promotional  LegalCap. Worked with management team to define direction of the products  SAAS product and marketing strategy. Management of tech team and  James Madison University - print design  duty assignments.  RentalMatchup.com - custom web application, branding and website  IMBES (International Mind, Brain and Education Society) - web design for event handling, hosting, consulting  BEVI (Beliefs, Events and Values Inventory) - web design, custom web  application  Laff-n-Grin - SEO using Google Adwords, Web CEO and Google Analytics,  rank from N/A to first page within two months for selected keywords    IT/Graphic Design Experience (continued) Designer/Pre-press Technician Branner Printing 2004 to 2004 Primary duties include designing collateral, preparing customer files  Art Director/Designer for the press, scanning technician, back-up technician for imposition  In charge of all art related activities for 11 affiliated companies  software, stripping, image setter and plating. Additional duties as including but not limited to print and mail house vendor relations,  required: customer education and relations, bindery work, stitching,  printed material, newspaper ads, posters, direct mail campaigns,  delivery, and cutter.  etc. Responsible for relations with international vendors. Additional  responsibilities included photographing collateral for printed material, Art Director LB&J Limited, LLC 2002 to 2003 Artist Emerald Promotional Products 2000 to 2001 2000-2001  design and installation, landscape and interior design, organizer for Designer/Artist  golf tournament fund raiser, procurer of promotional products and Sole art department employee, responsible for management of art  giveaways, and supervision of employees. department, for all designs and art department procedures, vendor  selection and relations, window and showroom displays, corporate  identity, marketing materials and newsletter, photographing promotional  materials, company website design and maintenance.    Mechanical Engineering Experience Designer Raymond Corporation - Johnson City, NY June 1991 to July 1999 Innovation Associates - Johnson City, NY 11/1987 - 6/1991  Various contract assignments including: Designer  Supported eight engineers within the Continuing Engineering  Department by working on Corporate Product Health Team priority Universal Instruments Corporation  list, warranty, safety issues, and day-to-day production and field issues across all product lines. Duties included design; prototyping; production CAD Designer - Responsible for all customer proposal layouts, electrical and field kit documentation; expediting parts and assemblies; and box and cover designs, assembly layouts, detailing, exploded isometric  dealer manual, change control, purchasing, and factory support. Part of assembly drawings, tooling, bill of material generation, electrical  task team to design and implement conformance to newest European diagrams, and change requests.  ESD and EMI regulations on all product lines.  IBM Corporation  Drafter  Part of a team to bring existing products into conformance with CADAM Draftsman - Assignment included converting all CAD facilities  European safety specifications for distribution of products over seas. drawings to new corporate standards using FMIS program. Responsible  Instrumental to design of electrical systems with minimal susceptance for complete field checking and input of IBM facility piping, HVAC, to electo-magnetic interference. Researched International metric electrical and architectural drawings.  hardware standards, identified and specified required company policies for conformance. Member of task force on benefits, cost savings and initial requirements of implementing ANSI Y.14 Standards at Raymond CADAM Design/Draftsman W.H.S. Robotics Inc March 1987 to November 1987 Duties included drafting of mechanical and electrical parts, assembly  Tool Designer - Contract Assignment drawings on board and on Tandy 3000 system using CAD-PACK  Design of complex welding, and machine tooling; standardization of software, running blueprints, assembling vendor packages, machining  truck parts, and continual research to produce increased efficiency and and assembly work, and managing drafting department after initial  cost effectiveness of manufacturing procedures.  AGV prototype construction.    Drafter - Custom Products Division - Contract Assignment  Responsible for mechanical design and full electrical/mechanical  documentation. Education Theocratic Ministry School - Harrisonburg, VA 2000 to 2008 BFA in Graphic Design & Photography Temple University - Tyler School of Art - Elkins Park, PA 1999 to 2001 Associates in Mechanical Engineering Broome Community College - Binghamton, NY 1992 to 1998 Skills PHP Links http://www.toddbroadbent.com