Server/Bartender Server/Bartender Server/Bartender Loveland, OH Results-oriented web developer offering extensive experience in design and layout. Highly educated in various programming languages and coding. Looking for a position in a fast-paced company that appreciates hard work, dedication, and evolving technical skills. Work Experience Server/Bartender Buffalo Wild Wings - Milford, OH April 2019 to Present • Provided pleasant, friendly, and responsible service  • Handled 5-12 tables daily  • Used multiple POS systems  • Trained new team members  • Thrive in a fast-paced environment Student Web Developer Ohio University OIT - Athens, OH March 2017 to May 2019 • Ensured that all sites HTML was clean and up to date before published.  • Participated in pre-project analysis and technical assessments to ensure the creation of a user-friendly interface.  • Utilized Google Analytics, Microsoft Excel, and Slick Plan to develop the school's websites.  • Maintained a strong education in the latest technologies, software and hardware products for use in various projects.  • Communicating with customers to figure out problems they may be having on their sites. Pool Manager Ohio University OIT - Loveland, OH May 2017 to April 2018 • Collected water samples to check chemistry and added proper chemicals to meet level requirements.  • Supervised a team of 4-5 Lifeguards and 2-3 Pool Attendants every shift.  • Performed basic maintenance service to maintain pool functionality.  • Oversaw opening and closing, including reconciling cash drawers and making bank deposits.  • Creating Schedules for both Lifeguards and Pool Attendants. Lifeguard Ohio University OIT - Loveland, OH July 2015 to May 2017 • Routinely completed safety update training and ensured all patrons followed safety rules.  • Maintained a neat and clean pool area and clean water at all times.  • Traveled to multiple different locations within the company to help pools that may need extra people. Education Ohio University Russ College of Engineering - Athens, OH August 2016 to May 2018 Milford High School - Milford, OH August 2012 to May 2016 Skills Javascript, Waitress, Barback, Hostess, Busser, Bartending