Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Birmingham, AL Entry level web developer who is looking for web design work for local businesses. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer 2nd to None Web Design - Birmingham, AL March 2016 to Present -Builds and creates webpages and websites for small businesses and individuals.    -Answers questions about web design providing insight to customers about the Internet.    -Diligent worker that promotes customer service to all customers and clients.    -Achieves business goals on a daily basis. Shift Lead Walgreens - Birmingham, AL February 2006 to Present -Accomplishing goals set by the store manager each business day.    -Addresses and works diligently to resolve customer concerns    -Trains and coaches new hires according to Walgreens policies and procedures    -Manages opening and closing of store operations    -Been working for Walgreens Boost Alliance for 13 years Education Associate in Computer Science Jefferson State Community College - Birmingham, AL 2014 to 2017 Bachelor's in History Spring Hill College - Mobile, AL 2001 to 2005 Skills Microsoft Word (4 years), Microsoft Office (4 years), HTML 5 (4 years), Microsoft Expression Web 4 (4 years), Microsoft Powerpoint (4 years), Customer Service Skills (10+ years), Microsoft Excel (4 years), Microsoft Office (4 years), Javascript (4 years), CSS (4 years), Wordpress (3 years), Angular JS (3 years), Python (1 year), ExpressJS (2 years), npm install (2 years), Git (2 years), MongoDB (2 years), ExtJS (2 years), MySQL (2 years), C++ (1 year), Java (2 years) Links http://mjtsfavoritecarsblog.wordpress.com http://sparksprofessionalpainting.wordpress.com https://2ndtononewebdesign.org Certifications/Licenses Web Developer July 2015 This is my certification to develop webpages. I use the programming languages: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and PHP. Groups Habitat for Humanity September 2001 to December 2002 -Rebuilt homes for the less fortunate and established fundraisers for the Boys Ranch.  - Tutored children at the Jimmie Hale Mission in Mobile, Alabama while in college.  -Played games with women who had been abused and neglected in their homes. Key Club April 1997 to May 2000 -Set up fundraisers through The Salvation Army and American Red Cross in high school.  -Worked with the Boys Ranch which helps teens who have been neglected in their homes by establishing food drives and fundraisers. Additional Information I'm a diligent and efficient worker who accomplishes tasks quickly and properly. My customer service experience allows me to resolve problems efficiently in the workplace with at the same time having a fun and safe environment at the workplace.