Digital Marketing Specialist Digital Marketing Specialist Digital Marketing Manager Beacon, NY An innovative marketing professional successful in creating and implementing websites and social media properties. Develops, implements, tracks and optimizes digital marketing campaigns across all digital channels. Excellent graphic, web, and multimedia design, employee management, vendor relations and customer service. Work Experience Digital Marketing Specialist Hudson Valley Federal Credit Union 2018 to 2019 Marketing Web Database Developer Hudson Valley Federal Credit Union 2007 to 2018 eBusiness Web Database Developer Hudson Valley Federal Credit Union 2001 to 2007 Responsible for developing, maintaining, and promoting company website, social media properties, and intranet.  Works collaboratively with employees and clients to create engaging high-end content for an optimized user  experience.  • Develop creative content, campaigns, promotions, and contests on Facebook, Twitter & Instagram.  Promotions and contests generated 200% growth in total social media followers.  • Create and manage social media calendar for the execution of marketing strategies.  • Monitor online presence of the company's brand and engage with users to strengthen relationships.  • Develop and maintain front-end functionality of website that generates 2+ million pageviews, and averages 180,000 users per month.  • Conducted RFP process, vendor selection, chaired & co-chaired teams, and was responsible from start  to finish for five different website redesigns.  • Won CUNA Diamond Award for best website redesign.  • Sole administrator that developed and maintained the front and back end of the company's first intranet  for a staff of 800+.  • Developed new and emerging technologies to improve and streamline company processes, i.e. created  the first online forms that were used to replace paper forms. Custom departmental web pages, searchable member databases, anonymous forms, custom auction module, etc  • Lead administrator of email communication system. Create, develop, and maintain email campaigns for  260,000+ mailing list.  • Administer third party web systems - Internet and Mobile Banking, LoansPQ, 3 app launches, HR  systems, MeridianLink, ADP, etc  • Create logos, banners, posters, etc for internal departments and external events.  • Video production - Recorded, produced, and edited content for company YouTube channel. Produced  yearly company Gala presentation. Freelance Graphic Designer Reader's Digest Association 2000 to 2001 Work with Art Directors to create artwork and develop direct-mail pieces for global mailing.  • Design and layout of direct-mail campaigns.  • Photo enhancement and retouching. Lead Web & Graphic Designer Studio Y, Inc 1998 to 2001 Responsible for high-volume web & print design accounts.  • Developed new web design department which increased company revenue by an average of 225%.  • Lead role in the design and layout of several websites each month.  • Branding & logo design; created posters, pamphlets, and direct-mail for high-end clientele, i.e. Reader's  Digest Global, Time Magazine, NJ Nets, etc Education Commercial and Advertising Art Sullivan County Community College 1992 to 1993 Certification in Design & Media The Art Institute of Philadelphia 1990 to 1992 Certification in Graphic Arts/Design Dutchess County Boces - Salt Point, NY 1990 to 1992 Skills Copywriting, Marketing, Seo, Creative design, Content management, Strategic planning, Customer service, Digital Marketing, Advertising, Social Media Marketing, Google Analytics, Photoshop, Indesign, Illustrator, Wordpress, search engine optimization, Adobe Creative Suite Links http://linkedin.com/in/rosszbt Additional Information Areas of Expertise    • Website management • Social media management • Creative design  • Content management • Copywriting • Strategic Planning  • Customer Service • Marketing analytics • SEO