Lead Software Engineer Lead Software Engineer Lead Software Engineer Costa Mesa, CA I am looking for a leadership position with a progressive organization where I can have a meaningful impact by introducing or extending intelligent development practices using open source software. I want to write clean software, automate workflows, improve productivity, minimize stress, and promote well-being. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Software Engineer FormulaFolio Investments - Costa Mesa, CA January 2018 to Present As Lead Software Engineer, led creation of new Engineering team to establish project infrastructure and roll out core online services for rapidly growing FinTech company. Within 6 months, scaled up four independent teams working in two-week scrum development sprints to build out and continuously release four integrated MVP web applications communicating through well-defined REST APIs. Technology stack includes Ruby-on-Rails, Python, PHP, Laravel, and WordPress. Lead Developer Chapman University - Orange, CA August 2016 to January 2018 As Lead Developer for Web and Interactive Marketing, managed a team of developers responsible for several online assets, including the flagship university website hosting over 10 million visitors a year. Worked directly with Rails, PHP, Node, and other open source technologies.    Introduced tools and benchmarks that empowered developers to incrementally clean up code base and improve site performance. Built upon previous experience to effectively adapt Agile practices to existing team workflow, organize priorities, improve developer morale, raise productivity across the team, and increase client satisfaction. Lead Developer ForeKarma - Costa Mesa, CA January 2016 to August 2016 Led design and development of ForeKarma prediction website:    https://www.forekarma.com/ Senior Applications Developer First American Corporation - Santa Ana, CA September 2012 to January 2016 As senior developer, led design and implementation of enterprise infrastructure responsible for processing over $1 billion daily in financial transactions.    Split duties evenly between backend and frontend development, overseeing redesigns of company's two major public-facing websites: the CMS-backed official website and the  Banking division's mission critical online banking application.    Spearheaded transition to more modern development environment adopting tools like distributed version control, static analysis, and continuous integration to ease development and improve productivity. Software Developer First American Corporation - Santa Ana, CA October 2007 to September 2012 As developer, implemented and supported applications critical to the business operations of both the Wealth Management and Banking units.    Within a diverse technical environment, carried critical projects forward to completion  participating in all stages of development, from database and interface design to testing,  quality assurance, and deployment.    Promoted best practices and created resources, including wiki, that helped accelerate  development process, clarify coding standards, and improve maintainability. Web Developer Computer Specialists, Inc - Anaheim, CA October 2004 to October 2007 Consulted for clients on website projects drawing up proposals, negotiating contracts, and authoring specs.    Updated legacy scheduling and accounting system to optimize scheduling process and increase billable hours.    Redeveloped company's intranet site around PHP open source solutions and integrated it with existing management system to significantly improve office workflow. Education M.F.A. in Creative Writing University of California - Irvine, CA 2003 B.A. in English Literature UC San Diego - La Jolla, CA 1994 Skills PHP, SQL, Javascript, HTML5, CSS (10+ years), Python, DevOps, Testing (10+ years), Ruby, Rails (5 years), MYSQL, Javascript, Git, PHP Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/klenwell https://stackoverflow.com/users/1093087/klenwell