PHP Developer PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> Hillside, NJ To obtain a software developer position that allows me to learn new technologies while utilizing my software developing  Experiences and knowledge. Work Experience PHP Developer Princeton University - Princeton, NJ October 2018 to Present Create a variety of projects for Faculty members, such Faculty Members student week visit, a portal for future students to schedule a conversation with the Faculty member.  A phone directory with all Faculty stuff and members information.  Migrate a total of 8 Wordpress websites from an old server to a new servers, implement a lot of wodpress snippets with Php code. PHP Web Developer Contract TF CornerStone/Manhattan/ - New York, NY April 2018 to July 2018 Create API sanitation. Read the XML API returned and make functions to sanitize the data returned:  Function to read the Data as an Array.  Function to Based on the table name Return all COLUMN_NAMES and DATA_TYPE via SQL String.  Other functions to create a Mass Insert to the database. PHP backend functions and MYSQL query's, Stored Procedures to retrieve the information and Insert or Update based on a query. PHP Developer Warner Academy - New York, NY September 2017 to April 2018 Create a web portal for students to login and learn from a variety of courses. Create pages using the server side php pages with Twig, Ajax request, Json responses and materialize css.  www.warneracademy.com PHP Developer PRESTIGE EMPLOYEE ADMINISTRATORS - Melville, NY September 2016 to September 2017 create and implement new and old HTML pages, using Jquery, Ajax, Json, Promises, Materialize CSS.  • Work with a small team to maintain, create, and build upon existing features for a client-facing payroll, benefits, and HR resources portal for a NY-based PEO company.  • Developed and maintained a wrapper service that consume a third-party REST API following SOLID principles and Object-Oriented.  • Develop a full-featured client-facing documents portal using PHP, JavaScript and jQuery, HTML, and CSS.  • Create Php functions and classes such as database connection, file upload, sql bind functions using PDO class. Class for integration with stored procedures CRUD(create, read, update and delete as an acronym CRUD are four basic functions of persistence storage)  • Develop all functionalities of the web portal such as: create new documents, update existing documents, delete document, file upload(accepting only .pdf files) with a maximum size of 25 MB( functions in Php responsible for the document upload, check if the document already exists, delete and create folders with the proper Linux permissions to read/writing and delete.  • A project to generate new. xlsx files every time that a certain criteria was created via a SQL statement.  • AngularJS to control user login, user list and user CRUD.    • Create, Implement PHP Pages | Using Jquery, Javascript | HTML5, css | Mysql. | AngularJS. Education Computer Sciences Technician College Opet Computer Networking ITT Technical Institute Skills PHP (5 years), JQuery (4 years), Javascript (4 years), CSS3 (3 years), scss (Less than 1 year), HTML 5, MySQL, Git, CSS