Translator Translator Web Developer Salt Lake City, UT Full-stack web developer with experience in responsive applications and data visualization. Broad knowledge  of major web technologies and passionate about creating effective and user-friendly design. Background in  political science and linguistics with a strong understanding of data analysis. Work Experience Translator Self-Employed June 2017 to Present I've worked as a freelance translator offering services between English, Portuguese and Spanish. I've translated a variety of documents but focused mostly on Safety and Technical Data Sheets (SDS & TDS) between English and Spanish. I've also served as a Spanish - English interpreter in Ecuador on a humanitarian trip where I was responsible for explaining the technical installation process of water filtration systems to locals.  Web Developer Student DevMountain Student Developers - Lehi, UT February 2019 to May 2019 Three month immersive web development bootcamp focusing on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React,Node.js, PostgreSQL, Redux, Express and many other technologies. Days involved learning new material in the mornings and building projects in the afternoons. We also built a full-stack personal project and a group project which incorporated various other technologies. Check out my live portfolio and view my projects at https://www.caleblovell.dev/. English Teacher Come Together English School - São Paulo, BR November 2017 to January 2018 In 2017, I taught ESL to students of all ages and levels at a school in São Paulo, Brazil. I organizedand taught English lessons in a natural, full-immersion environment, through classes involvingwriting exercises, grammar, cooking, music, games and other activities. Education Bachelor of Arts in Strategic Communication & Political Science Miami University - Oxford, OH September 2013 to May 2017 Skills Translation, Javascript (1 year), HTML (5 years), CSS (2 years), React.js (Less than 1 year), d3.js (Less than 1 year), Spanish (10+ years), Portuguese (3 years), Italian (2 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/caleblovell http://www.caleblovell.dev Certifications/Licenses TEFL June 2017 to Present I am certified to teach English as a foreign language to students of all ages. I have 2+ years of experience teaching in the US, Brazil and online.