Fullstack Web Developer Fullstack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fullstack Web Developer - Cyber Resonance Corporation Dayton, NJ Work Experience Fullstack Web Developer Cyber Resonance Corporation July 2018 to Present CyRES's patented technology uncovers hidden data in audio and specializes in cognitive AI, signal processing and multimedia content classification with frame accurate precision, unmatched speed and ultra-high accuracy.  mD Controller is a full stack MEAN application developed using Angular 6 as UI framework with Axios, Socket.io, Pug and SASS as core UI technologies and Node.js, Express.js, Mongoose.js as server-side technologies and using MongoDB and Oracle databases. Utilized AWS SDK to connect with AWS services like S3 and SNS.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with the cross functional teams in gathering requirements, define user flows, end user experience.  • Developed user flows on webapp using HTML5, CSS3/SCSS, and Angular 6 framework.  • Developed views using Angular modules, components, services and routes.  • Created Custom services and pipes in Angular for focusing on input control etc.  • Implemented form validations using ngForms and created the Custom Validators for validating date types and custom input components.  • Developed high-quality code to support multiple browsers while still meeting high performance requirements. Implemented performance improvements strategies like minification, on-demand module loading, compression, caching, prefetching for UI layer.  • Developed the application using React, Node, Express, GraphQL, Mongoose and MongoDB.  • Create backend Services and leveraged Schema objects from Mongoose library to build object models. Implemented CRUD operations with security enabled for REST clients and GraphQL clients.  • Developer about 15 different Data Modals and used Mongoose JS and integrated MongoDB. Leveraged auto increment, Object reference capability to manage various data models.  • Utilized 3rd party libraries like Lodash to work with arrays, numbers, objects, strings, etc.  • Worked with middleware like Express Validator, Body Parser, and Cookie Parser.  • Worked on GraphQL and implemented GraphQL query language for APIs so that clients can make selective data element querying.  • Implemented Authentication using Passport.Js.  • Worked with DevOps to automate application deploying using Jenkins for Automatic Deployment and testing. Deployed Node and MongodDB on AWS EC2 instances.  • Validated application on multiple devices using Browserstack.com. UI Developer Jukebox.io - New York, NY July 2017 to April 2018 A start-up product for music domain to offer capabilities for customer to choose favourite song to play in supported public places like restaurant etc.  Application was developed using Angular4 for UI layer and backend using NodeJs platform and MongoDB as data store.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application using Angular 4 as main framework and leveraged many supporting libraries for rich UI.  • Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception to code development of various modules.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing UI screens using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular, and JSON.  • Worked with Express.js to interact with the Node.js server and for routing.  • Developed UI Templates using string interpolation, one way/two-way data binding using Angular.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Extensively used Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries for Responsive Web Design (RWD).  • Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  • Worked on data access layer using MongoDB and Mongoose.js.  • Managing tickets through JIRA and use Source tree with GIT for version control. Java Developer iTech Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to August 2016 Rewards Management System (RMS): The Rewards Management System is a web-based application used to manage and maintain the Employee data; Computation; Administration of the equity awards and yearly hikes to the employees. This application has several modules for defining employee yearly rewards, section wise budget allocation etc. In RMS, at the top level of the hierarchy, sit Global Business Units (GBU) under them are a set of carve outs defined, with population and their respective managers. The manager can edit the details at one shot for all participants in carve out and send it for approval to the next higher Carve out manager. Once reviewed and approved the payment info goes to the Payroll System.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of application.  • Developed the view components using CSS, HTML5, JavaScript.  • Implemented persistence layer using JPA and writing SQL queries based on JPA criteria API.  • Extensively used data manipulation language and data query language to access, manage, and query data.  • Created AngularJS Routing to connect different controller to the view which allows the single-page application.  • Implemented AngularJS Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server.  • Actively involved in performance tuning of Java Spring Integration layer and production issues.  • Used SoapUI for functional testing and inspection and invocation of Spring-based Web Services  • Used web services architecture with Spring Integration based service through REST.  • Deployed applications on Web Logic Application Server.  • Configured ATG nucleus components for connection pooling and data source. Implemented the Hibernate framework (ORM) to interact with database.  • Implemented spring security for application transaction management.  • Developed Web Services to integrate with the External System.  • Extensively worked with XML using DOM and SAX parsers for transferring the data between different components.  • Involved in developing EJB's Message Driven Bean (MDB) for asynchronous messaging.  • Developed the Junit test cases.  • Used JIRA 5.2 for the issue tracking and bug reporting.  • Used Log4j and commons-logging frameworks for logging the application flow.  • Conducted version control, software maintenance and backup using Maven and GIT.  • Worked in multiple environments including SIT, UAT and Production Environment. Education M.S in Computer Science in Computer Science Syracuse University 2018 B.Tech in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU 2015 Skills Visual studio, Android studio, Cucumber, Git, Javascript Links http://github.com/hdahagam Additional Information • Around 4 years of experience in Application Development in Web and Backend Applications.  • Oracle certified Associate, Java SE 8 Programmer. Click here to view the certificate.  • Working experience developing applications using Java8 and jUnit.  • Hands on UI Developer worked on SPA with Responsive design using Angular and ReactJs frameworks and their Component based architecture.  • Used libraries like NgRx for reactive state management. Experienced in Promise and Observable usage for asynchronous processing.  • Good working experience in using JavaScript new standards ES6 & Typescript. Utilized JavaScript design patterns: Module, Revealing Module, Singleton and Prototype.  • Experience in making Responsive Web Pages using Media Queries, Twitter Bootstrap and leverage the befits of CSS pre-processors SAAS and LESS.  • Worked on Material Design based UI implementations. Utilized Angular-Material integrations for visual components.  • Used Webpack for automating UI code bundle and usage of middleware for hot deployments and production builds.  • Experience in designing and developing RESTful webservices using microservices architecture and deployed on NodeJs.  • Experience in handling performance issues, clustering, performance monitoring and memory configurations of Node.js applications.  • Developed UI specs for Unit and E2E testing with using Karma, Jasmine and Cucumber.  • Experienced in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) using Jenkins.  • Good understanding on NoSQL database MongoDB. Worked on complex Mongo queries using Projections and Aggregations. Worked in indexing and clustering.  • Experienced SDLC models and Agile/Scrum model.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: Java8, JavaScript/ES6, Typescript.  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular 2/5, Angular CLI, Webpack, React, JSLint.  Testing: Jasmine, Sinon, Cucumber, Selenium, Mocha, Chai, jUnit  Server Technologies: NodeJs, ExpressJs, LoopBack, Spring, JDBC, Mongoose, SQL,  REST WebServices, MicroServices architecture  Databases: My SQL, Oracle, MongoDB.  Version Control Tools: GIT, SVN, Source tree.  IDE and Tools: Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Android Studio, Jenkins, Robo 3T, Postman.  Cloud Platforms: AWS Cloud: S3, EC2, SQS, SNS, Load balancer, Lambda.