Owner @teslamotorsclub Owner @teslamotorsclub Owner @teslamotorsclub - Social Media Marketing Laguna Niguel, CA To obtain a position with SVUSD where I can utilize my skills and strengths to contribute to the company's growth. Work Experience Owner @teslamotorsclub Social Media Marketing - Laguna Niguel, CA 2015 to Present Created and run @teslamotorsclub, a Tesla owner and enthusiast Instagram account which has 171K followers. Assist others in building and maintaining social media presence. Develop advertising, promotions, giveaways, stories and posts.    shopzeroemissions.com  In 2017, built and run an E-Commerce web site, Zero Emissions Store, that sells merchandise for Electric Vehicle owners and enthusiasts. Create and market products to sell on site. Handle design, pricing, accounting, site development, customer relations, advertising and marketing for the store.    Computer Programming ASCI Security - Laguna Niguel, CA 2014 to Present CA  Built a Linux server which hosts a virtual private network (VPN), email server, and file sharing server for friends and family to access and use anywhere in the world.    ASCI Security/ Holiday Position  December 2016, Irvine, CA  Organized communication cables and computers/servers for company during its move to a new facility. Web Developer/IT RPM Tesla - Rancho Santa Margarita, CA May 2018 to August 2018 Developed and maintained an E-Commerce website for an automotive accessory company. Built an Amazon FBA (fulfilled by Amazon) store. Created and managed all online advertising such as Google AdWords and banner ads. Used analytics to determine advertising strategy and product placements. Maintained computer systems and assisted employees with computer issues. ASCI Security - Laguna Niguel, CA May 2015 to December 2016 Created a start-up online apparel company. Developed a business plan and website. Responsible for product selection, ordering and pricing. Ran the business, handled all website operations and customer relations. Education Business Administration Saddleback Community College - Mission Viejo, CA August 2017 to Present High School Diploma Dana Hills High School - Dana Point, CA September 2012 to June 2016 Skills CONTENT CREATION, EXCEL, POWERPOINT, WORD, PHOTOSHOP Links http://@teslamotorsclub Additional Information Skills    Leadership Communications Creativity Collaboration Organization Resilient Quick Learner Risk Taker Future Focused    Web Development E-Commerce Social Media Content Creation Instagram Twitter YouTube Facebook Photography Photoshop Lightroom Premiere Videography Word Excel PowerPoint