Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Lauderhill, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Fils La Lotto Center - Port-au-Prince, HT January 2017 to October 2018 E-lottery Company based in Haiti  • Led development of Android.  • Designed and managed MySQL database.  • Contributed in the analysis and implementation of the RESTful API.  • Hands-on unit tests and identified bugs before releasing the software on the market.  • Worked on the full life cycle, from analysis through release of the Android application through a cross-functional team.  • Hands on upgrading our application as needed.  • Delivered comprehensive and functional application to sell lottery tickets electronically.  • Implemented a secure RESTful API, that the application consumes.  • Implemented Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) for push messaging.  Environment: STS, Java, Spring Boot, Embedded Apache Tomcat, Android SDK, JSON, MySQL for remote database, SQLite for local database, Firebase Cloud Messaging for an instant messaging subsystem, Android Studio, Eclipse, MySQL Workbench, Advanced REST Client. We also use some third party libraries like Retrofit, Gson and so on. Web Developer- Remote Drelief March 2016 to October 2016 • Worked from analysis to implementation of a Website for a Car Insurance company.  • Designed and managed MySQL database.  • Using PayPal API to accept payment online.  • Delivered interactive website with different access level to purchase car Insurance online.  • Implemented PayPal API to accept online payment.  Environment: PHP, MySQL, PayPal API, MySQL Workbench, WampServer, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax HTML5, CSS. C# Developer Bananier Restaurant May 2015 to December 2015 • Developed inventory software based in C# for Bananier Restaurant.  • Designed and managed MS SQL Server database.  Environment: C#, MS SQL Server, MS SQL Server Management Studio, Microsoft Visual Studio. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA 2021 Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering Universidad Catolica Santo Domingo - Santo Domingo Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/moreno-jn-baptiste Awards • Nominated as Teacher Assistant for the course “Modern Programming Practices” during master degree here in the USA 2019-01 This is a paying position given to two students showing excellence in the subject of the course. As responsibility, we correct all the homework and project of the other students. And we also need to put ourselves available to explain to the others students what they didn’t understand during the course. Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 8 Programmer June 2018 to Present This is an internationally recognized Certificate provided by Oracle after passing a standard exam that tests your knowledge in Core Java in general and also in some specific features added in Java 8 like LocalDate, LocalDateTime, “default method” in interfaces, lambda, etc. Additional Information SKILLS    • Languages: Java, Android, Kotlin, C#.  • Web: J2EE, JPA, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, PHP, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, RabbitMQ.  • Web Services: RESTful API using JAX-RS with Jersey in J2EE, Spring Boot, Slim in PHP, XML, JSON.  • Frameworks: Spring, Spring Boot.  • Databases: MySQL, MS SQL Server, SQLite (Room).  • Architectural Patterns: MVC, MVVM.  • Design Patterns: Façade, Observer, Template Method, Strategy, Iterator, Proxy, Decorator, Composite, Party, Mediator, State, Abstract Factory, Simple Factory, Method Factory, Singleton, Chain of responsibility, Command.  • Tools: STS 4, Android Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans, PhpStorm, IntelliJ IDEA, MySQL Workbench, PHP MyAdmin, Visual Studio, Sublime Text, MS SQL Server Management Studio, Microsoft Visual Studio, Star UML, Astah.  • Platforms: Windows, Linux.  • SDLC: Agile/Scrum, Waterfall.