IIB Developer IIB <span class="hl">Developer</span> IIB Developer ? Around 3 years of experience in IT, focusing on business application integration, technical architecture and software development.  ? Proficient in application integration, middleware programming, IBM Integration Bus/IBM WebSphere Message Broker.  ? Having very good experience in Web Sphere MQ 8.0 & 9.0 administration and configuration on Windows and LINUX, AIX environments.  ? Hands-on experience of full SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Deployment and Testing.  ? Implementing Distribution Communication over different platforms.  ? Enabling Triggering on MQ queues based on the requirement of various interfaces.  ? Experience in MultiTier and Web Enabling the Legacy System with IBM Web sphere MQ Series and IBM Web sphere Message Broker.  ? Expertise in different nodes of WMB such as HTTP, Web services, Web sphere MQ, File, Transformation and Database.  ? Strong Knowledge of Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA)  ? Expertise using Web Sphere Message Broker (WMB) to develop data mapping and integration solutions.  ? Extensive Experience in point-to-point and pub/sub messaging features.  ? Strong knowledge in handling the messages with MRM, CSV, SOAP, BLOB and JSON parsers.  ? Hands on experience in collecting requirements and developing design documents.  ? Well versed with XML related technologies like XML Schema, XSD, X Path and XSL.  ? Expertise in writing scripts to deploy Message Flows and Message Sets.  ? Strong programming Knowledge using ESQL, JAVA.  ? Worked on calling Stored Procedures in DB2, MSSQL.  ? Administration and Configuration of Web Sphere MQ on different environments like Windows and Linux.  ? Strong Server and network trouble shooting skills with excellent Team work  ? Troubleshooting and Managing IBM Web sphere MQ queues, channels, listeners.  ? Strong experience in Performing and supporting problem determination and resolution, production changes, and maintenance following Problem and Change Management processes. Work Experience IIB Developer FedEx Supply Chain January 2018 to February 2019 Environment: IIB(10), Web sphere Message Queue 8.3, SOAP UI 7.1, RFHUTIL, Message Archive, WMQ, Linux, Data power.    Responsibilities:  ? Develop, test, and support applications based on MQ, Message Broker/MQ broker/IBM Integration Bus, Java, EDI, Oracle Database, Web Services, ESQL, XML, SOA, ESB, and Workflow.  ? Develop Applications, using IBM Integration Bus 10.0 and IBM Integration Designer 8.0.  ? Develop frameworks, configure and integrate interfaces to other application systems and develop data related files.  ? Developed message flow interfaces using WMQ to transform messages between different clients to meet their business needs with the help of IBM Primitive nodes i.e. Compute Node, Filter Node, Route to Label, Label, Reset Content Descriptor, Trace and Database Nodes, Message flows and the Sub flows.  ? Developed SOAP and Rest web service flows using SOAP request, SOAP input node, SOAP replay, HTTP Request, Http HTTP Input and HTTP reply node for hosting and calling web sphere.  ? Analyze data, troubleshoot issues, provide root cause analysis and resolve issues on time with best possible solution.  ? Developed SFTP/FTP flow using file node to process the bath file transaction.  ? Test middleware environments for performance and usability.  ? Document completed technical work, technical specifications throughout a project, and communicate with end users to understand processes through collection and clarification of business requirements.  ? Develop basic queries for troubleshooting production support issues. IIB Developer Verizon June 2017 to January 2018 Environment: IIB, Web sphere Message Queue 8.3, SOAP UI 7.1, RFHUTIL, WMQ, AIX, Linux.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed message flows using SOAP request, SOAP input node and SOAP reply node for hosting and calling a Web Service.  ? Performed operations on IBM HTTP server nodes, JMS nodes, MQ server and client nodes for the efficient flow of the data between applications.  ? Supporting the team in troubleshooting the issues and developing complex logics.  ? Involved in Build phase, debug, connectivity testing and Unit testing of the Message Flows.  ? Development of Message Flows and Message Sets to convert (XML, COBOL) and route the request and response messages to respective destinations.  ? Designed, Developed and Deployed Message Flow Interfaces utilizing various Nodes including SOAP nodes, Compute Node, File Nodes, Filter, Label and Route To Label.  ? Designed and developed service to dynamically enable/disable front-side handler using scheduling policy.  ? UTC creation, review and execution.  ? Developed Message flows doing transformations using Compute Node (ESQL) and Mapping nodes.  ? Worked with XML, JSON, SOAP, IS) 8583, Copybook Data formats.  ? Developed message flows in Message broker to do XML to copy book transformation routing and Database retrieval using ESQL.  ? Designed Pattern based implementation in Message Broker/IIB. IIB/ Web Sphere MB Developer Syntel Inc - Pune, Maharashtra November 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Ownership and prioritization of group of Incidents, Problems or Changes and ensuring the delivery of solutions in line with the Operational Level Agreements to deadlines and quality standards.  ? Owner of Service Improvement items and responsible for their implementation.  ? Out of hours cover and support, providing expertise and specialized system knowledge to allow resolution of key incidents independently. Also provide support and direction to junior support analysts.  ? Developed, Documented and Deployed Message Flow Interfaces utilizing various Nodes including Database and SOAP  ? Prepared mapping documents for each individual interface.  ? Installed and Configured WMQ and WMB (Toolkit, Explorer and Broker runtime) on windows.  ? Development of Message flows having various patterns as per the Technical design document.  ? Designed and developed message flows using ESQL in compute node.  ? Define message sets using XSDs and Copy books.  ? Used ESQL for routing and enrichment of incoming messages in compute and filter nodes.  ? Used ESQL to execute database, stored procedures, to get information from database tables, views.  ? Developed message flows using Collector, Java Compute, Compute, Mapping, JMS, Timer nodes to do transformation, aggregation & Collection of Messages. Education Master's