Java Aws Developer Java Aws <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Aws Developer - Go-Go Air Chicago, IL • Around 8 years' experience in software development life cycle experience in Object Oriented paradigm, design and development of Multi-Tier distributed, Enterprise applications and providing software solutions using Java/ JEE stack and related technologies  • Excellent understanding of enterprise application development on cloud platforms like AWS, Open Shift and Azure.  • Highly proficient in using frameworks like Spring Struts, JSF, Hibernate and Design Patterns such as MVC, Session Façade, Front Controller, Data Access Object (DAO), Value Object, Singleton, factory, abstract factory, Service Locator for executing multi-tier, highly scalable, component based, services driven Enterprise Java applications.  • Experience in using J2EE Application Servers such as Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere.  • Experience in working with Amazon Web Services like EC2, EBS, ELB, S3, SQS, Cloud front.  • Experienced using web technologies such as HTML, HTML5, XHTML, DOM, CSS, CSS3, Typescript, JavaScript, jQuery UI, Ajax, Cordova, Angular.js, React.js, and Bootstrap.js.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC architecture using Spring MVC and Struts.  • Hands on experience on Docker and container technologies for building Micro service-based applications.  • Strong experience with CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) methodologies with Jenkins  • Expert in deploying the code trough web application servers like Web Sphere, Web Logic/Apache Tomcat, and JBOSS.  • Expertise in Client Side Designing and Validations using various technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ECMAScript, MS FrontPage, JSP, Struts Tag Library, JSTL.  • Hands on experience with Test Driven Development (TDD) methodologies.  • Experienced in developing applications using Agile (XP, SCRUM), Test Driven methodologies and good understanding of Service oriented architecture (SOA)  • Hands on experience with Version control systems like Visual Source Safe, GIT and SVN.  • Experienced with JEE application packaging & deploying EAR, WAR, JAR files on test, stage and production servers using Maven, Ant and CI servers like Jenkins.  • Experience with unit testing the applications using Junit Framework and mocking frameworks.  • Strong experience with java Multithreaded Programming to develop multithreaded modules and applications and on searching text/data programming.  • Integrating with Mongo DB fetch data and update code  • Experience with designing & developing micro services approach using REST and SOAP services.  • Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT, DTD and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.  • Experienced in working with build tools like ANT, Maven build scripts, providing logging facility using Log4j, writing JUnit test cases and used Clear Quest, JMeter, Bugzilla for bug tracking.  • Significant experience in Responsive Web Design (RWD).  • Strong Database development experience in writing functions, procedures, triggers, and views in PL/SQL.  • Strong Experience in database design, performance tuning and query optimization on Oracle, MySQL DB2.  • Good knowledge on QA testing reports that determine product quality.  • Sound knowledge in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Chrome.  • Strong experience in writing and updating the technical documents on daily basis with the changes made to the existing environment on daily basis.  • Performed troubleshooting in the event of an issue with the applications and updated findings and fix to clients.  • Self-motivated, able to handle multiple priorities and excellent time management skills.  • Strong communication and analytical skills, ability to handle multiple tasks as well as work independently or in a team.  • Involved in to manage post implementation for user testing, debugging, support and maintenance.  • Have worked in projects that used different methodologies like Agile, SDLC, waterfall etc.  • Strong Technical background, excellent analytical ability and debugging skills, good communication skills, team player and goal oriented, with a commitment to excellence. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Aws Developer Go-Go Air - Chicago, IL October 2017 to Present Description: Go-Go Inc. is a provider of in-flight broadband Internet service and other connectivity services for commercial and business aircraft, headquartered in Chicago, Illinois. Go-Go Vision streams movies and TV shows from an onboard server. Go-Go continues to expand its footprint in the in-flight wireless connectivity and entertainment space. The project involves in design and develops our next generation airline services platform for building a globally deployed platform for our customers using some best-in-class, open-source code.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in implementing application flows using Spring MVC framework.  • Worked on core AWS services such as Setting up new server (EC2) instances/services in AWS, configuring security groups, and setting up Elastic IP's, auto-scaling and Cloud Formation.  • Used Simple storage services (s3) for snapshot and Configured S3 lifecycle of Applications & Databases logs, including deleting old logs, archiving logs based on retention policy of Apps and Databases.  • Experience on modifying the existing Backend code for different level of enhancements.  • Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring and auto scaling.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in AWS.  • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection, Java 8(Streams), multi-threading, and object-oriented designs  • Creating XML Documents for file configuration.  • Developed cross-browser compatible web pages and validated the work produced.  • Used Hibernate framework in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database.  • Developed Java API to interact with the Amazon SQS used for sending bulk emails.  • Used different types of IDE tools like Eclipse 3.2, Netbeans7.1.2, IntelliJ IDEA [ ] for Java J2EE Application development.  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed Scrum.  • Created complex SQL queries and used JDBC connectivity to access the database.  • Integrated Active MQ and spring JMS API to send and receive message for the application's Restful API.  • Used Spring-IOC to inject beans and Spring MVC architecture for developing the application.  • Written Unit Test Cases for all the developed use cases and did integration testing using Junit.  • Used Rest angular in AngularJS service to make GET/POST/PUT/DELETE to deal with API request and response from AngularJS to send the request and get the response from Node.JS.  • Used JAX-RS for creating RESTful web service where the request and response are in JSON format.  • Developed interactive web application using Node JS a pure JavaScript application frame work.  • Created Micro services as part Lambda function development using Node JS server less architecture.  • Used Spring Boot for building cloud Micro services quickly and develop spring-based applications with very less configuration.  • Used Apache Kafka cluster as messaging system between the APIs and Micro services.  • Worked on creating a solution to create different data structures in Mongo DB to hand to the front-end of the application through a centralized API.  • Involved in writing Java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Used Java 1.8 fundamentals like parallel streams and filters through lambda expressions to handle searching.  • Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins, Maven in multiple environments.  • Used Spring-IOC to inject beans and Spring MVC architecture for developing the application  • Worked on creating different data structures in Mongo DB for the front-end application through a centralized API.    Environment: Java 1.8, JSP, Spring, GIT, RESTful, LINUX script, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, Amazon Web Services EC2, S3, CI-CD tools, AWS, Oracle DB, Spring Boot, micro services, Docker, Apache TOMCAT 9.0, Mongo DB Java Aws Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA December 2016 to September 2017 Description: The project evolves in designing, validating and deploying technical solutions to maintain, enhance, and evolve the T-Mobile Network and Systems. The priority of these designs is to maximize reliability, performance, and efficiency while limiting costs and time to market. Development of tools may be required in order to most efficiently solve technical or business challenges including technology evolution, capacity management, and performance optimization.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  • Implemented Micro Service Architecture with Spring Boot based RESTful services and consumed SOAP based Web Services.  • Used Spring IOC for Dependency injection and integrated with the Hibernate framework for interacting with the Oracle database.  • Worked with Spring MVC framework for implementing Model-View- Controller (MVC) architecture at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application.  • Designed Java multi-threading-based batch job applications for the data load process that was taking a lot of time to process.  • Worked on setting up and configuring AWS EMR Clusters and Used Amazon IAM to grant permissions on AWS resources to users.  • Worked on designing a CI-CD approach using Jenkins, Maven, GIT and Artifactory.  • Worked on building Jenkins Pipeline plugin configuration for the automated package releases.  • Developed the overall UI layout design for web site using HTML5, CSS3 and Pre-processor LESS.  • Supported the team with a Proof of concept of application migration over to cloud including container technologies.  • Involved in Agile Software Development Life Cycle, including collecting the requirements, Requirement analysis, Designing, Building the code, Testing, Debugging and support.  • Built interactive web pages using the jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, forms, menus, widgets, user interface.  • Coded dynamic and browser compatible UI web pages using JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, jQuery, Ajax and responsive design in MVC environment.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked with testing tools like Postman, Firebug and IE developer toolbar.  • Used AngularJS to implement rich functionality in various pages: form validation, grid, search, sort, pagination.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services.  • Used RESTful services to load data which is in JSON Format.  • Experienced with TDD methodologies with the use of Junit, JMockito etc.  • Worked on Security scanning tools like Fortify, Sonar reports etc. Worked on Proof of Concept for developing application using Node JS and Mongo DB  • Deployed Java applications in Docker containers to AWS machine images.  • Implemented monitoring tools like Dynatrace and New Relic on the new application servers. Supported the team with performance testing and issue tracking.  • Used JIRA to track the defects with agile methodology.  • Improved overall design and UI of websites using the JavaScript.  • Worked on cross-browser compatibility issues and fixed the bugs relating to various browsers.  • Extracted data in UI for different clients using JSON format.  • Generated links in JavaScript and AJAX to track every click using form get method.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Handled all aspects of the web applications including testing, maintaining, debugging and deploying.    Environment: Java1.8, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, NodeJS, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, OAuth2, Spring AOP, Spring Batch, REST, Mongo DB, SOAP, Hibernate, micro services Architecture, AWS EC2, S3, Web Sphere, JUnit, Maven, Jenkins, JIRA, GIT, STS, Linux, Agile Methodology. Java Developer North Well - New Hyde Park, NY March 2016 to November 2016 Description: Northwell Health is one of the leading companies in the healthcare industry.The company designs products, provides services and applies technology to improve access to healthcare services, simplify the healthcare experience, promote high quality and make healthcare affordable to all. This system is a healthcare management system that helps in keeping track of the patient's data, orders, lab results and physician's data etc. Northwell IT takes care of the processes to interface lab instruments with IT and exchange data across disparate systems.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in project preparation meetings with the SME's to gather information about project related requirements.  • Involved in analysis, design and development of legal research search system developed specs that include use cases, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and activity diagrams.  • Involved in developing JSF components for the next generation version of the application.  • Used Spring framework including Spring core /IOC, Spring Web-MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring ORM, Spring AOP modules.  • Involved in setting up spring security in securing the app based on user roles.  • Used Spring IOC (inversion of control) to remove the object dependencies across the application.  • Implemented the Spring-Security and Transaction Management (Spring-TX) in the Application.  • Implemented the application using Spring Boot Framework and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Create RFP (Request for Proposal) micro service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Built the project models using Maven and conversion of existing projects from ant to maven build.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, XSLT and CSS.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and jQuery in on-going projects.  • Used jQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application  • Used JSP Tag Libraries (JSTL) to implement the logic inside the JSPs.  • Used plain JavaScript and jQuery, JavaScript Library to do the client-side validations.  • Used Spring MVC and Web Flow to bind web parameters to business logic.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries Rich Faces 3.0 and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Used Log4j to print the logging, debugging, warning, info.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology.  • Configure SQL using Liquibase preconditions, insert, update and rollback. This will reduce the maintaining traditional way scripting and maintaining the data in Different Environments.  • Deployment of web, enterprise java components and messaging components.  • Used JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  • Developed XML Schemas - XSD, DTD for the validation of XML documents.    Environment:: Java, Hibernate, Spring, XML, UNIX, JSP, MVC, J2EE, JUnit, HTM, Jar, Maven, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Log4J, Jenkins, Source tree, Micro Services, Spring MVC framework, Spring MVC annotations, Spring AOP (Aspect-Oriented Programming), Spring Boot, Spring security, Oracle11g, Oracle, Agile, JSP, AJAX JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, GIT, JIRA, PL/SQL, JAR, STS (spring tool suite), eclipse, Apache server, WebLogic Application Server. Web Developer State Of New Mexico - Albuquerque, NM January 2015 to October 2016 Domain: Federal    Responsibilities:  • Analyze and Design different components of the project and create design diagrams, Business Flow Charts, coding, documentation and unit testing of application.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Responsible for developing all the UI pages using HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular 2.0, JavaScript, Typescript, AJAX, JSON and RESTful API.  • Developed the application using Spring Source Tool (STS) and IntelliJ as the IDE and used the standard features for editing, debugging, running etc.  • Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • Involved in building highly interactive portable widgets using HTML 5, CSS 3, and the latest AJAX libraries.  • Developed and tested features in an AGILE environment using Angular-2 and Typescript.  • Developed Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  • Using Kibana illustrate the data with various display dashboard such as metric, graphs, pie-chart, aggregation table.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.js, node.js and Ext.js.  • Created rich mobile applications using Node.  • Used Backbone.js, Require.js to create Views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data to/from server.  • Implemented the web-based application following the MVC architecture using Struts Framework.  • Developed Action Servlet, Action Form, Action Class, Java Beans classes using Struts Framework.  • Followed coding guidelines and Java & J2EE design patterns to develop the application.  • Worked on Core Java and its libraries in creating the Java web application's business Logic.  • Development of the java classes to be used in JSP and Servlets.  • Created A search tool where we are using Elastic Search tool for searching metadata form the database.  • It is a user interface where data scientists are using for searching for particular data from the Hadoop, Teradata, Hana and DB2 This data is extracted from the database using extraction process and loaded into elastic search server.  • Developed the administrative UI using Angular Js and NodeJS, Jasmine and ReactJS.  • Experience in developing cross platform server side applications using Node.js to achieve scalability in real-time web applications.  • Building Web application using Angular.JS for front-end  • Used Bootstrap and Angular UI to make the application user-friendly in the development of the Navigation bars, Tables, Sliders, Calendars etc.  • Interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Extensively used JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like message posting and auto complete form validations.  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  • Used Spring MVC framework for developing web application  • Analyze functional requirements to convert them to UX requirements  • Used Angular JS in creating multi-page view using templates & ng-route.  • Developed JSF components, implemented event handling using Java, JSF and JavaScript for various modules.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle 10g database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  • Worked with the team of architects and back-end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Ext.js, Photoshop, Node Js , Dreamweaver, MVC, Struts, JSON, DOM, XHTML, SOAP, JAX-WS, Oracle, Windows. Role Java Developer SunTrust Bank - Atlanta, GA February 2015 to February 2016 Description: The project delivers highly complex solutions with significant system linkages and dependencies and associated risk. Leads and performs development efforts such as analysis, design, coding/creating, and testing. Participates in testing, implementation, maintenance, and escalated support of SunTrust's most complex solutions.    Responsibilities:  • To analyze the requirements and develop enhancements that will mostly benefit users.  • Understanding the requirement and involves in converting into design document.  • Developed Web services (service class) using design patterns like Factory, Singleton, and DAO and Adapter patterns.  • Defining XSD's (Schema) and generating Classes using JAXB.  • Consuming and Pushing Text Messages Using WebSphere MQ's  • Consuming web services by understanding WSDL's, XSD.  • Consuming Messages from WebSphere MQ's and Message Oriented Middleware based application design.  • Creating the DTO's and DAO's for accessing the DB2 database using Hibernate ORM.  • Created the abstract classes and interfaces for service and DAO layers.  • Written queries in HQL and Native SQL and criteria API.  • Created spring beans, spring configuration files, auto-wiring, configured the property files via xml configuration, writing POJO classes for spring injection.  • Written JUNIT test cases to test the modules developed using MOCKITO.  • Used SVN for version Control system.  • Used SOAPUI for testing web services and verifying the request and response XML.  • Responsible for de-bugging and fixing the issues in any of the modules within the application which arise during the testing of the application.  • Coordinating with offshore teams for delivering requirements and make sure implementation happens as per requirements.  • Involved in code reviews.  • Support during deployment and monitoring application in post-production using Splunk tools.  Environment: WebSphere 8.0, Web Services (SOAP), SOAP UI, DB2, Axis2, JMS, Spring3.0, Hibernate, SVN, HTML, CSS, XSD, XML, JAXB, Splunk. Education Bachelor's