Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Brooklyn, NY Energetic, motivated, creative, business-minded and results-oriented receptionist working with clients over 6 years of experience, eager to bring strong administrative skills to a growing company in need of top-level support. Ability to use MS Office Word, Power Point, Office and other Software with good computer skills. Excellent organization, communication, and relationship building skills. Articulate, confident and friendly with a professional demeanor. Building websites from the ground up with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, MySQL different programming languages and so on Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer MY-IT-EDUCATION April 2019 to Present April 2019-Present  My-IT-Education.us is a continuous education company that provides IT training to non-technical specialists. Primary role is to develop web applications/learning modules for students internally.  Responsibilities:  -Developing both Front End/ Back End by using HTML, CSS, PHP, API, Laravel, WordPress.  -Additional responsibilities are to QA the modules and changes of other developers.  -Periodically, run weekly scrum meetings for the team.  -Troubleshooting issues with the existing codes.  -Participate weekly production releases.  -Build new projects for local educational organizations.    Attending Home Care  1125 Fulton St, Brooklyn, NY 11238. Tell: 1(718) 940-4900 Home Health Aide Attending Home Care 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Assisting elderly patients with daily tasks  ? Guide walking/exercising  ? Recording blood pressure  ? Recording weight/temperature  ? Following diet of the patient  ? Completing patient's errands  ? Creating a safe environment for the patient Bank Teller CHASE BANK - Brooklyn, NY December 2014 to December 2015 Education Associate Borough of Manhattan Community College 2017 to Present Skills Javascript, PHP, CSS, HTML Certifications/Licenses HHA Present Assessments Nursing Aide Skills — Completed April 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to provide nursing aid to patients using knowledge of relevant equipment and procedures. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fjalnslcdi-0k-nc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.