Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer New York, NY Work Experience Software Developer Connected Google Daydream - Stony Brook, NY February 2019 to May 2019 NY  ? Connected Google Daydream to a 3D molecule viewer and education platform.  ? Created responsive design for an interactive allergy informative sight. Web Developer/Photographer Stony Brook USG - Stony Brook, NY October 2018 to February 2019 Updated and edited posts on USG website using Wordpress. Volunteer SBU Hackathon - Stony Brook, NY 2018 to 2018 Acted as a mentor and photographer throughout the event  Served as an expert for Web-based applications, and served as a helper for Java applications. Remote Web Developer Oceanswide - New York, NY August 2017 to November 2017 Developed front-end design of Oceanswide website and integrated Paypal API.  ? Developed with responsive design and user experience. Consultant/Designer iCreate Makerspace - Stony Brook, NY May 2017 to August 2017 Designed and created any and all promotional material.  ? Assisted with front-end development for a mobile app.  ? Assisted in design and front-end development of website using Angular.JS.  ? Trained and provided assistance for 3D Printing, Sowing, and Laser Cutting. Committee Member Student Technology Fee Advisory Council - Stony Brook, NY October 2016 to May 2017 Acted as an advisor for the Chief Information Officer of Stony Brook.  ? Provided technical knowledge of the Computer Science department.  ? Improved, or replaced old applications with more state-of-the-art options. Web Design Intern CuisineBox - Flushing, NY August 2016 to October 2016 Created the front-end design of CuisineBox website using Angular.JS.  ? Stored customer information such as credit cards, usernames and passwords using MongoDB. Web Design Intern Consulate of Bangladesh - Long Island, NY April 2016 to July 2016 Created a navigation bar and learned HTML, CSS, and JS.  ? Registered and reported bugs.  ? Used multiple objects to create locations, people and messages with inner values. Education Technology System Management Stony Brook University Skills Git, Javascript (4 years), Java (4 years), HTML 5, CSS3 (4 years), Perl (1 year), Python (2 years) Links http://Github.com/TaSayed Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages: Java, Python, Perl, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, RobotC  Technologies: Angular.JS, Node.JS, Bootstrap, jQuery