Event Planner Event Planner Event Planner Baltimore, MD Work Experience Event Planner LiveBit Streams 2016 to 2019 Steered and supported wide areas of store operations, including collaborating in ordering inventory as well as conducting inventory audits/counts and maintaining  warehoused and floor stock; developed and maintained monthly report spreadsheets    Applied solid knowledge of accounting practices toward managing cash, performing  daily bank deposit reconciliations and processing invoices  Effectively trained, coordinated and supervised high-performance team of part-time    Locked  employees, with strong focus on ensuring delivery of superior customer service while containing labor costs  Actively assisted customers with product selections and processed sales  transactions; drove revenue production by creating and maintaining effective  product displays Web Developer / Lyfe Link Services 2014 to 2019 Extremely experienced in the planning and the delivery of web applications across multiple platforms.    Writing efficient code  Creating websites/a website using standard HTML/CSS practices  Working closely with web designers and programmers to produce the website  Constant communication with other colleagues in the business to develop and deploy their content and ensuring there is a clear  establishment of what can be created within what timeframe  Researching different software programs, maintaining software  documentation  Implementing contingency plans in case the website goes down Maintaining and expanding/enhancing the website once built  Managing a team might also be part of the job role  Asset Protection / Amazon / 2014 - 2016    Provide excellent service to customers while maintaining strict security.  Ensure goods carried by customers are labeled appropriately to avoid any  theft.  Check the receipts of bulk or high value merchandise going out of the premises.  Monitor the premises for any thefts and fraud activities.  Ensure that no merchandise leaves the premises without payment.  Develop in-depth knowledge of department operations and security systems.  Respond promptly to alarms according to company guidelines.  Identify and communicate any suspicious activity to Operations Manager.  Investigate frauds and thefts as directed by the Manager.  Implement safety and security programs for premises.  Perform scanning and bag checking of all employees when they leave the building.  Carry out daily security checks of the warehouse.  Generate daily and weekly cargo loss reports and circulate to appropriate  personnel.  Monitor department operations everyday to check any violations of company  polices regarding safety and property and personal hazards.  Report violations and incidents to Operations Manager to take corrective  actions.  Perform routine testing and maintenance of security systems and fire alarms. Education University of Phoenix 2018 to 2021