Apprentice Carpenter Apprentice Carpenter Apprentice Carpenter - CS Carpentry Springfield, MO Work Experience Apprentice Carpenter CS Carpentry August 2018 to Present As an apprentice carpenter, I safely use hand and power tools to assist a master carpenter with building new construction projects and completing renovation jobs.  ? In March, we began a six month job on a house that had been in a fire. To date, we have  gutted the house, demolished and built a new front porch, and restored the original siding.  We have also installed new windows and doors, trimmed the exterior with new bed mould, drip cap, water table, and freeze board. On the interior, we have replaced existing  load-bearing beams and reframed several rooms and doorways.  ? Constructed a new deck with stairs and a pergola from cedar and pressure treated lumber, after demolishing existing structure.  ? Renovated a front porch by wrapping existing structure with roof decking to imitate cedar.  Framed and wrapped new beams. Installed new nickel gap ceiling and new railing from painted galvanized fencing.  ? Renovated a lake house kitchen and living room. Installed new interlacing dimensional wood  countertop in the kitchen. Framed and installed live edge cedar bar top and post.  ? Assisted with designing and building custom furniture, like a Murphy bed built into a cabinet  and spruce shelving units with integrated lighting.  ? Assisted with the removal and installation of thirty Marvin windows and doors. Freelance Web Developer August 2015 to Present This position requires me to monitor system health and debug code using a variety of tools. I also research and integrate APIs for new services.  ? Coordinate with senior developers to manage client projects and deliver polished, responsive, and user-friendly public and internal sites.  ? Design sites from scratch, with SEO best practices in mind, to optimize traffic, page views, and lead conversion rates IT Intern CNH Industrial Remanufacturing - Springfield, MO May 2017 to August 2017 In this position, I supported the IT team by doing maintenance, upgrades, and repairs to office  hardware and software, as well as, assembly line equipment and software.  ? Updated inventory records on Excel, implemented Syteline ERP and migrated static data  ? Migrated intranet and PICK system to ERP  ? Interfaced with coworkers to collect and discuss hosting solutions and data mining. Ultimately, delivering reports to the IT and Finance Department heads. Education BSc in Computer Information Systems Missouri State University - Springfield, MO