PERSONAL ASSISTANT/ WEB DEVELOPER PERSONAL ASSISTANT/<span class="hl">WEB</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PERSONAL ASSISTANT/ WEB DEVELOPER • Seeking opportunities to obtain a part-time position in retail sales and customer service. Work Experience PERSONAL ASSISTANT/ WEB DEVELOPER CREATIVE NETWORK STUDIOS October 2018 to April 2019 704) 523-9272  Full time personal assistant and secretary with reception responsibilities. Greeted clients and managed scheduling and communications. Coordinated catering, setup, and crowd management for large events and meetings. Drafted and designed marketing for social media campaigns and general advertising. Developed back end infrastructure for a large scale online commerce site for a client. Organized and maintained the facility for optimal functionality. PETSMART June 2018 to October 2018 Job responsibilities included caring and maintaining the variety of animals sold in the store. Animals departments cared for included aviary, reptile, aquatics, and small mammals. Assisted customers by providing information to help find the ideal pet for their household environment. Pet care associates were trained to feed, water, clean, and interact with the animals being sold to ensure their best wellbeing. CASHIER MICHAEL'S September 2017 to December 2017 704) 543-9341  • Part time holiday hire position. Job included working register for sales and returns, customer service, shelf replenishment, and store closing duties. Employees were focused on email capture and program sign up in addition to customer service and register duties. VOLUNTEER FRIENDS OF FERAL FELINES September 2015 to May 2016 Interacted and attended to rescue kittens and cats that were up for adoption. Volunteering also included working various fundraisers and informing potential adoption families about the organization. When a family was interested, I would help introduce them to a cat or kitten that would be best suited for their individual family and home environment. Finding a compatible match was the most crucial aspect in order to reduce stress on the cats and families alike. CASHIER BOB ZIP ASIAN KITCHEN June 2014 to July 2014 All-encompassing job with no official designated positions, all employees worked together to accomplish tasks and ensure the restaurant ran smoothly. Duties included working as a hostess, cashier, waitress, dish washer. Responsibilities also included food preparation, deep cleaning the restaurant/kitchen, and helping train other employees. Education HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA ARDREY KELL HIGH SCHOOL June 2016 Skills Store sales Additional Information Skills & Abilities    SALES  • Successfully marketed and sold new menu additions, lesser known dishes, and daily specials when working in a restaurant environment.  • Promoted upcoming store sales and promotions along with the customer rewards system at both Michael's and Petsmart.  • Suggested the purchase of additional add on items related to and compatible with the customer's intended purchase.    COMMUNICATION  • I have worked in many team-oriented environments where individual tasks are given but communication with others is essential for the objective or project to be successfully completed. This was most prominent in activities and fundraisers throughout high school.  • Expediting orders in a restaurant to the chefs and working with other employees to ensure that the customers receive the proper order in a timely fashion.  • Working with customers to resolve any questions or concerns that might have arisen about products or in returns/exchanges.  • Assisting customers in choosing the most compatible pet for their individual set of criteria.