Web Designer/ Developer and Digital Communications <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> and Digital Communications Living at the intersection of Design, UX and Technology. Washington, DC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer/ Developer and Digital Communications Georgetown University McDonough School of Business - Washington, DC November 2017 to May 2018 • Designed the webpage layout.  • Updated and maintained the website.  • Wrote and edited digital content.  • Created visual designs for on-campus events with focus on color, typography, motion and graphic.  • Utilized UX Methods for Wireframing and Prototyping Social Media Engagement Global Engagement, University of Mississippi - Oxford, MS October 2014 to December 2016 • Maintained and created content for social media sites: (Facebook, Twitter, Newsletter).  • Updated and maintained the website.  • Created Infographics.  • Increased Social Media Engagement on Digital Platforms  Internship - Database and Web Management Broadcasting Board of Governors, Voice of America - Washington, DC June 2016 to August 2016 • Created a Database for an internal SharePoint site.  • Updated and maintained the website.  • Created digital content Assisted on a new initiate on Workplace Solutions.  • Met with 23 action teams and reviewed progress reports. Alumni Coordinator American Councils for International Education - Washington, DC October 2011 to August 2013 •Worked with more than 70 alumni to develop proposals and budgets for community events  •Worked with US Embassy in Albania to secure funding for projects  •Partnerships with Non-Governmental Organization (Red Cross, Peace Corps) to implement volunteering programs  •Maintained the YES alumni database; daily maintained Facebook, Twitter and Instagram   •Timely submission of three-month plans and alumni budgets  •Proper handling of alumni funds and compliance with local office finance and reporting procedures Education Master's in Communication, Culture & Technology Georgetown University - Washington, DC August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Mississippi - Oxford, MS August 2013 to May 2017 Skills Web Design, Photoshop, Experiential Design, Coding (Java, Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript), Artificial Intelligence, User Personas, Journey Mapping, Wordpress