Line Cook Line Cook Omaha, NE To gain a deeper understanding of the processes and procedures provided, while contributing unique insight and skills to better enhance the mission and values of the company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Line Cook Panera Bread - Omaha, NE December 2018 to June 2019 ? Multitasked efficiently while maintaining a high quality product  ? Assisted peers on the appropriate standards of the establishment and exchanged ideas with one another to assure cohesiveness  ? United with others at an optimum speed to reach the goals of the company  ? Upheld a balance between independence and functioning as a team for the most favorable performance of the collective Cashier/Cook Raising Canes - Omaha, NE August 2015 to September 2018 ? Worked in an environment that required cooperative team functioning dynamics  ? Contributed to building and creating the training implementation of incoming new hires   ? Adaptable in a fast pace, high stress environment  ? Able to communicate with various people efficiently to promptly complete tasks as a team  ? In-depth knowledge of mission, values and purpose of company, along with coded language for performance   ? Leads the team dynamic with high value work ethic and passion to increase efficient productivity   ? Implemented creative solutions to problem orientated situations   ? Innovated compromises to satisfy customer requests while maintaining company policy and values Paid Internship Omaha Code School June 2016 to July 2016 ? Assisted in an interactive course for high school students that taught basic web development  ? Educated over 20 students on the basics of coding, web design and software development  ? Created a fun learning environment where students achieved with high levels of interests and production  ? Role modeled positive learning examples to help students be well rounded in their understanding of the curriculum as well as their understanding of the outside world  ? Collaborated with Seventy Five North Revitalization Corp to maintain sustainable opportunities for future cohorts Basic Web Developer Omaha Code School June 2015 to July 2015 ? Liaised for multiple web development and software development companies in the Omaha area  ? Formed original projects to portray the understanding of the basics of web development  ? Created original website that gives educational insight to astrophysics  ? Executed ability to work in a team environment to construct an unique website that gives informational insight to programs in the Omaha area Education Bachelor of Science in Journalism and Media Communication with a concentration in Creative Media University of Nebraska at Omaha - Omaha, NE August 2017 to Present Skills Line cook (3 years), Cooking (3 years), kitchen (3 years), Communication (3 years) Assessments Cooking Skills: Basic Food Preparation — Familiar May 2019 Preparing food, using cooking equipment, and converting ingredient measurements. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/raeyyx-erphfifkf Memorization & Recall — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to commit product or merchandize information to memory and recall at a later time. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uydglm2qhnqudbsm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Restorative  ? Ability to preserve a problem solving and solution based mindset to create a solution to any issues that arise  Input  ? Ability to bring forth insightful information and assistance to any situation that others may not be aware of  Developer  ? Ability to think critically to assess situations and processes  Ideation  ? Ability to create new ideas and think outside of the box  Positivity  ? Ability to stay productive and contribute to an uplifting environment