Cloud Platform Developer, Product Cloud Platform <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Product Cloud Platform Developer, Product - IBM Austin, TX Work Experience Cloud Platform Developer, Product IBM - Austin, TX June 2018 to Present DevOps Insights. https://www.ibm.com/cloud/devops-insights  ? Data mining and streaming in back-end services using python and several API's. Focusing on mining  Github repos.  ? Deploying services with kubernetes, Jenkins and IBM CD Pipeline and Helm Charts.  ? Presenting data queried from ElasticSearch and front-end dev with Vue js. Bioinformatics Intern The Contreras Research Group - Austin, TX May 2017 to June 2018 Development of a user friendly computational pipeline to analyze large-scale RNA-seq data indicative of in vivo RNA-RNA hybridization using python, linux and the Texas Advanced Computing Cluster.  ? Investigation of translational impacts of mRNA codon point mutations via structural affinity predictions.  ? Invited to write methods chapter for a book on high-throughput evaluation of RNA-RNA hybridization. Web Developer McCombs School of Business Web Development Team - Austin, TX April 2016 to April 2018 Create/modify responsive Web pages for the McCombs School of Business using Sitecore.  ? (Front/back)-end development using C#, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and .NET framework.  ? Reaching goals as defined in an agile development environment where communication/teamwork is  key. HotSauceManifesto.me March 2017 to May 2017 Worked on a team to build a website that contained scoville rating, type of pepper, and on all sorts of different  kinds of hot sauces.  ? Built using Flask with jinja2 templating, jquery, bootstrap and hosted on DigitalOcean. Predicting Netflix User Ratings September 2016 to December 2016 Spring 2017  ? Took a sample of Netflix user rating data to see what a user would rate a movie based on what they like.  ? Used python to predict user ratings, then tested it against real user rating.  ? Used the unit testing library to make sure our program wasn't making bad predictions and Coverage.  Relational Database Modeling (CS 327e Elements of Databases) fall 2016  ? Created a normalized schema for a relational database containing State Representatives and Political Party.  ? Parsed data from csv files to insert it into MySQL and create tables.  Digital Signatures using RSA (M 343L Applied Number Theory) fall 2016  ? Studied the RSA public key exchange and applied it using digital signatures. Student Researcher Freshman Research Initiative, Research in Computational Biology - Austin, TX January 2015 to May 2015 Simulate the evolutionary fitness of microorganisms using offsite Texas Advanced Computing Cluster.  ? Identified most probable evolutionary theories via statistical analysis using python.  ACADEMIC PROJECTS AND ACTIVITIES  SHPE National Conference Engineering Science Symposium Graduate Presenter  Fall 2017 ? Presented research on "Optimizing functional protein yield using synonymous codon mutations" at SHPE  National conference. Education Bachelor of Science in Mathematics in Scientific and Computational Option The University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX May 2018 The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley - Edinburg, TX September 2013 to March 2014 Skills Apache spark, Django, Git, Groovy, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Python, Mysql, Postgresql, Apache, Linux, Css, Bash, Bioinformatics Additional Information SKILLS  Software: Kubernetes, Jenkins, IBM Cloud products, Postman, HashiCorp Vault, Apache Spark, Linux, Git, Mercurial,  Atom  Programming: Python, Bash, JavaScript, Groovy Script, Processing, HTML, CSS, and various bioinformatics tools. Exposure:  MySQL, postgresql, and Django