Teaching Assistant Teaching Assistant Graphic + Information designer New York, NY I am a recent graduate of Northeastern University's BFA program in Graphic and Information design. Previously I have worked producing websites and print marketing for commercial buildings in the Boston Area.    I am highly interested in product design and identity strategy in apparel, footwear and consumer goods. I refer to my design process as holistic and transparent, revolving around knowledge of standards and limitations of various production methods in order to complete ideas and works. Work Experience Teaching Assistant Northeastern College of Arts Media & Design - Boston, MA September 2017 to September 2018 Prepare and create visual aids, supplementary notes, and lectures to lead students through examples on digital illustration and sketching techniques. Record student responses, and  cover topics necessary to coursework. Meet with students during office hours to address  questions or concerns with assigned projects or additional help with required software. Costume Production Assistant Northeastern College of Arts Media & Design - Boston, MA January 2018 to May 2018 Aide in production of sewing, preparing and constructing costumes, garments and accessories for departmental plays and film needs. Carry out research into the costume  styles, designs and construction methods suitable for the time period of the plays  Hair, Glass Menagerie. Source swatches and fabrics for costumes and accessories. Web + Graphic Designer Embarc Studio - Boston, MA January 2017 to September 2017 Designed, developed and produced websites and digital ads for clients based upon their  marketing needs and current brand expectations. Worked on creating brand identities,  logos, print, and web materials for real estate and housing development agencies in Boston. Created in house print and info-graphics for client presentations and proposals.    Boston, MA Other Places I've Worked  Sept 16' - Jan 17' Snell Library Interlibrary Loans Web Developer Smile Lab Northeastern January 2015 to May 2015 Web Design + Development of www.northeastern.edu/smilelab Education BFA in Graphic and Information Design Northeastern University September 2014 to December 2018 Skills Autocad (1 year), Illustrator (5 years), Photoshop (5 years), HTML (4 years), CSS (4 years), Lightroom (2 years), Indesign (4 years), Typography (2 years), Web Development (3 years), Teacher Assistant Links http://www.ralphp.info