Full-Stack Web Developer (Coding Bootcamp) Full-Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Coding Bootcamp) Los Angeles, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full-Stack Web Developer (Coding Bootcamp) The Plan Partner - Culver City, CA April 2018 to Present Full-stack web developer for The Plan Partner, building a subscription-based web application for real estate  agents to plan their activity to realize revenue goals. Agents set up their annual business plan, including personal  and business expenses, median home prices, commission splits, and desired annual revenue to arrive at the required number of transactions per year. Using industry-standard or their personal conversion rates (leads/hr  and sales/lead) for various activity types (phone calls, open houses, etc.), they can allocate their time among activity types to meet their plan goals, establish a weekly schedule, track their adherence to the schedule  calculate personal lead conversion rates, and manage their leads, appointments and transactions.  Personally implemented the "Prospects" tab, FAQs, and the Navbar header. Created a Prospecting Tracker  Component in which realtors can electronically hold themselves accountable and track their metrics.  The application is implemented as a SPA/ASP.Net MVC 5.* web application backed by Microsoft SQL  Server database exposed via RESTful Web API. The web client employs ReactJS and responsive web design  practices for desktop, tablet and mobile devices. Employed an agile development process with daily standups and Trello for task management.  Technologies include Visual Studio 2017. Visual Studio Code, SQL Server Management Studio, Git on Team  Foundation Server (TFS), Chrome Developer Tools, JSON Lint, C#, Transact-SQL, MVC 5, Web Api 2.0, JSON  Serialization, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, ReactJS, Twitter Bootstrap 4.0, CSS3, Google Maps, AWS S3, MVC  Attribute Routing and Trello. Licensed Realtor Century 21 AllStars - Los Angeles, CA January 2016 to January 2018 Provided guidance and assist sellers/buyers in marketing/purchasing property for the right price under the best  terms. Determined clients' needs and financials abilities in order to propose solutions that suit them.  Intermediate negotiation processes, Consult clients on market conditions, prices, mortgages, legal requirements and related matters to their benefit and ensure a fair and honest dealing. Performed comparative market analysis  to estimate properties' value. Displayed and marketed real property to possible buyers. Prepared necessary  paperwork (contracts, leases, deeds, closing statements etc). Maintained and update listings of available  properties. Cooperated with appraisers, escrow companies, lenders and home inspectors. Promoted sales through advertisements, open houses and listing services. Remained knowledgeable about real estate markets  and best practices. Provided Fiduciary Duties with all clients Education Computer Science Los Angeles City College - Los Angeles, CA September 2011 to December 2015 Skills VISUAL STUDIO (Less than 1 year), API (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), JAVASCRIPT (Less than 1 year), React, SQL Additional Information SKILLS  ? C# ? AJAX ? T-SQL  ? ASP.NET ? JavaScript ? HTML5  ? MVC 5.x ? ReactJS ? Agile/Scrum Methodologies  ? WebApi 2.x ? Twitter Bootstrap 4.0 ? Google Maps API  ? Git on TFS ? CSS3 ? Visual Studio Code IDE  ? jQuery ? Visual Studio 2017 ? SQL Server 2017