UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Charter Communications St. Louis, MO ? 5+ years of Front-end Web Application Development experience with technologies using HTML4.0/5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS2/CSS3, DOM, JAVASCRIPT, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular 5/6, AJAX, JSON, React JS, Node.js, D3.js, XML, ES 5 & ES 6.  ? Professional experience in Applications design, Development, Integration, Testing and Maintenance of various client/server, N-tier and web application and its design, using various UI- TECHNOLOGIES.  ? Expertise in using various front-end frame works like AngularJS, Backbone.js, knockout.js,  Node.js, Ember.js, React.js, Express.js, D3.js.  ? Expertise in developing Responsive Web Design, Grid Framework Applications using Twitter Bootstrap.  ? Experienced implementing Web Services using Apache a, WSDL, REST API.  ? Deep knowledge in Angular and Experience in developing single page applications using AngularJS, Angular 5/6 and React JS.  ? Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  ? Experience in Development and Documentation throughout the entire SDLC.  ? Expertise in using XML/JSON and AJAX to link with back-end applications.  ? Followed Waterfall and Agile/Scrum methodology of software development which satisfies the Customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.  ? Expertise in styling the documents using CSS, SASS, LESS.  ? Experience with SVG and HTML 5 canvas.  ? Experience in Version Control tools like Git and SVN for Source Code version management and merging Source code after intermittent Project releases.  ? Experience in writing unit tests using Jasmine, Karma.  ? Good knowledge in NoSQL database, MongoDB.  ? Knowledge in UI designing like wireframe concepts, Mockup designs using Adobe Fireworks, Axure, Mockingbird and Photoshop.  ? Fabricated various models using Use cases diagrams, Interaction Diagrams and Class Diagrams with the help of tools like Rational Rose, Smart Draw, Microsoft Visio, Visual Paradigm, UMLet.  ? Worked with task runners like Grunt, Gulp.  ? Experience in Jenkins and Maven.  ? Experienced in using UI editors like Flex 2.0/3.0, Dreamweaver, and Eclipse.  ? Strong understanding of Animation and how things should look, feel and move. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed and implemented functions and features using Angular 5/6 at client-side and Web API at server-side.  ? Developed application by implementing the Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular ui-router.  ? Implemented client-side form validation, form view results using various services, pipes in Angular 5/6.  ? Created Typescript components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 5/6.  ? Used Node Package Manage (NPM) as package manager for JavaScript, Gulp as the task runner, which handles template cache and minifying code.  ? Used Node.js package for all the build and development tools.  ? Used Angular 5/6 HTTP to retrieve data through Web API from Entity Framework.  ? Good knowledge on creating services with Angular 4 @injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components.  ? Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  ? Involved in JavaScript coding for validations and passing attributes from one screen to another.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 5/6.  ? Created Mock-up designs and developed various functionalities with JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Extensively used CSS integrated with RWD (Responsive Web Design) to apply layout styles for varying screen sizes and pixels.  ? Worked in another team to develop application using React.js.  ? Developed client-side user interface by using the React JS, Redux for SPA development.  ? Developed client-side validation code using JavaScript and React custom component developed by us for validating input fields named input validator.  ? Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  ? Develops the flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  ? Used ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  ? Good hands on experience and knowledge on Redux and ngrx store to manage the State, Subscribing and unsubscribing the state changes and dispatching the actions in Angular 4.  ? Familiarity Mongo DB along with Node JS, as a database to store JSON.  ? Achieved Repository pattern in Web API side to ensure consistency.  ? Built REST Web services by building Node JS server in the back-end to handle request from front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  ? Worked on improving and debugging API functions using Jasmine & Karma for testing Angular 4 code.  ? Implemented Node.js router to make cross-domain requests to API services: GitHub API.  ? Called the Rest web service calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  ? Experience in using HTML 5 elements to render graphics powered by JavaScript.  ? Participated with SQA team in bug thrashing sessions to discuss and resolve bugs that were reported in JIRA.  ? Worked on Agile Methodology and used TFS for issue tracking and configuration management.  ? Used GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.  Environment: Angular 5/6, React JS, Node.JS, MongoDB, RxJS, GitHubAPIv3, Angular Local Storage API, Typescript, JavaScript, REST web service, JSON. HTML5, CSS3, Karma, Jasmine, Agile, Jira, Git. Angular Developer Statefarm - Richardson, TX February 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the web application using Angular 4 along with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, Bootstrap and other web technologies.  ? Implemented observables to get a pattern of dealing with data by using array-like operations to parse modify and maintain data in Angular 4.  ? Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage or install Gulp, Express, Underscore.js, and mongoose.  ? Worked with CSS3 and bootstrap to create Responsive web designs for multiple departments/pages.  ? Created custom directives in Angular 4 for DOM manipulation and services for common functionalities shared by different controllers.  ? Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, screen mock-ups, and interface design.  ? Gained Knowledge on Electrode Platform which is a NodeJS/ Web platform built on top of the ReactJS and HapiJS frameworks.  ? Developed Dynamic Single Page Applications in two different projects using ReactJS and AngularJS.  ? Involved in enhancement of existing application features using ReactJS, using React interlopers to make sure the requests were valid and used UI-router to handle nested views and avoid page redirection.  ? Developed client's website screens and front-end widgets using React JS.  ? Involved in developing applications using Angular 4 - Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc. Used filters while coding in Angular 4.  ? Familiarity on developing multiple POCs to create an interface between Backend to Frontend by using MongoDB, Express JS, Angular 4 and Node.js.  ? Created custom AngularJS filters to provide better search experience, Implemented AngularJS client-side validation forms using various controls and filters.  ? Implemented Module in Angular 4 to group components, directives, pipes and services that are related.  ? Streamlined the Responsive Web Design to enhance the User Experience and developed designs for the prototypes for the UI.  ? Extensive use of jQuery Events for manipulation of events and jQuery plugins for menus and widgets.  ? Developed Bootstrap responsive web application pages using Angular 2.0 services, components and directives for front end UI and consuming the Rest web service API and made use of CRUD Services for effective use of Web services.  ? Developed REST services using Node-JS, Express-JS, Body-Parser, Mongoose, Underscore-JS and other node modules to serve the web application with JSON data.  ? Used SASS for creating CSS frameworks store things like colors, font stacks, or any CSS value and dynamically converting these SASS files into CSS files.  ? Used AJAX to reduce the network load and update only the certain components of the website.  ? Worked with HTTP/HTTPS protocols by using angular2/4 components to build Rest API services.  ? Extensively used promises (Success and Error) while making sync communication. Wrote services with Angular 2/4 to store and retrieve user data from the Mongo DB for the application on devices with the Http service.  ? Familiarity on Mongoose API in order to access the Mongo DB from Node JS and used Angular CLI and for scaffolding the Angular 2/4 Application.  ? Used Mocha (a JavaScript test framework) to write the tests at server side and used Jasmine on the client side.  ? Developed the functionalities under Agile Methodology and used JIRA for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  Environment: HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular-2.0/4.0, Node-JS, Express-JS, JSON, MongoDB, Mongoose, Angular-CLI, REST web service, sublime Text, Mocha, Jasmine, SEO, SASS, Gulp, Agile, Jira, GIT, AWS. UI Developer Veelead Solutions Private Limited January 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Reengineered the existing application into a web-based application using the latest web technologies.  ? Designed and developed dynamic web pages using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript to facilitate the digital transformation of the current banking website.  ? Developed Single Page Applications using AngularJS route providers and used Angular expressions and built-in directives to render functionality to the UI.  ? Participated in requirement gathering meetings with the stakeholders for layout and color scheme development to enhance the website and implement them using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  ? Developed Bootstrap responsive web application pages using Angular.JS services, controllers and directives for front end UI and consumed REST web service API.  ? Implemented User Interface and integrated with backend code, Node.JS server-side technology.  ? Involved to implement various screens for the front end using Angular.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  ? Experienced in using various Angular bootstrap directives like modal, popover, tooltip collapse etc.  ? Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using REST API, JSON API.  ? Used bootstrap, HTML5 for the visual design.  ? Created web services and desktop applications to access and display data needed by support teams using, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, Backbone.js, AngularJS, Node.js, Java, CSS and HTML.  ? Developed a modern web workflow using Grunt as a part of my project.  ? Worked on Bootstrap version 3.0.0, Express.js, jQuery, JavaScript libraries to make website responsive and interactive.  ? Followed Agile/Scrum methodology for the software development.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and issues tracking.  ? Followed the approach of Test Driven Development (TDD) and Continuous Integration.  ? Performed Unit testing using the Ember tests.  Environment: AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, JSON API, JavaScript, jQuery, Ember.js, Express.js, Java, JSP. Web Developer Nexborg Software Solutions Pvt. Ltd July 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Created reusable HTML templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines; Performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes.  ? Extensively used Debugging Cascading Style Sheets CSS to change the styles now and in the future.  ? Designed various modules using technologies like AngularJS, JSON, and JavaScript.  ? Worked on manipulating the DOM elements using jQuery and have expertise using the jQuery selectors, events and effects.  ? Good experience working on the single page applications.  ? Worked on CSS styles that were predominantly dynamic.  ? Involved in writing jQuery-based Ajax requests using jQuery. Get (url, data, callback, type) or jQuery ajax (options) and jQuery. Post (url, data, callback, type).  ? Experience on using AngularJS and Backbone to create new, robust UIs.  ? Handling various issue regarding Cross Browser Compatibilities.  ? Coordinate with Interface Design Architects for meeting accessibility standards at code level.  ? Participate in the team meetings on Agile development cycle.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE, Kendo UI, JSON, AJAX, jQuery, Angular.js, Backbone.js, WebSphere server, DB2 Database. Education Master's Skills CONTENT MANAGEMENT, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, D3.JS, NODE.JS, JSON, SVN, XML, XSLT, AJAX, CSS, DREAMWEAVER, OPERA, TOMCAT, WEB LOGIC, WEB SERVER, ANGULARJS, IOS Links http://@injectable