SEO Producer / Web Developer SEO Producer / <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Web-Design Marietta, GA Work Experience SEO Producer / Web Developer Force Marketing - Atlanta, GA December 2017 to Present Build Web Layouts Using Rich SEO Techniques  Image Optimization  Build and edit conversion-focused landing pages using customized HTML, CSS, JavaScript and markup schema  Collaborate with SEO team to plan and review over 300 auto dealer/industry-focused unique content pieces each month.  Optimize title tags, meta description tags and H1s for all core webpages  Apply optimized schematic markup to high volume pages  Confirm pages for mobile responsiveness  Submitting work for compliance, meeting OEM standards  Monitor websites via Google Analytics for strategy effectiveness and overall performance  Make edits/performance optimization to preexisting webpages.  Utilize Google Search Console to Control Indexing and Analyze Keyword Performance  Use Google Analytics to Identify Areas of Opportunity and Diagnose Traffic Issues  Work in Diverse Automotive CMS Platforms like Dealer Inspire (Wordpress), Dealer.com, CDK+  Testing new betas for product development  Coordinating ongoing training for team growth and alignment  Connect with marketing directors communicating wins, losses and strategy for increased traffic to websites. Freelance Web Developer Atlanta, GA August 2015 to Present HTML5  CSS  Branding   BootStrap  Newsletters  Wordpress  Web Design  Web Development   JavaScript  Logo Design   JQuery  Graphics  Layout     Create custom graphics for online advertising, mobile websites, and website maintenance     PLATFORMS / PROGRAMS  Adobe Photoshop  Adobe Dreamweaver  Visual Studio Code    CURRENT PROJECTS  KIBUmap -https://www.kibumap.com/ - Collaborated with senior  development regarding conceptual design and functionality. Real Time Analyst Comcast - Alpharetta, GA February 2017 to December 2017 -Evaluating call center call flow for performance efficiency.    -Track monthly productivity, quality, and sales performance goals.    -Provide forecast models identifying performance trends.  -Advise management on schedule change requests.    -Enforce schedule compliance and adherence.    -Partner with call center agents and leadership for coaching  opportunities.    -Train call center agents and leadership on new Workforce applications  and procedures.    -Employee payroll time approval.    -Create documentation for RTA procedures    As an RTA in Alpharetta I helped the center reach a 90% adherence goal for the first time in over two years. I've created SOP's for current call  center attendance policy. Trained new hire classes on Workforce  expectations. I'm also a part of the "CREDO" team which is dedicated to site wide team advocacy and morale. Executive[Sales] Comcast - Alpharetta, GA April 2015 to February 2017 -Interacted with Comcast customers and potential customers in order to sell great Comcast products based on customer's needs and interests.    -Met company/site sales and productivity goals.    -Partnered with other company groups to provide an excellent customer  experience Education Economics Bronx Community College - Atlanta, GA January 2015 to Present Skills Jquery (4 years), Front End, Javascript (4 years), UI, Salesforce (2 years), SEO (3 years), HTML 5 (6 years), CSS3 (5 years), Front-End, Bootstrap Links http://www.JustinKWallace.com