Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - CSU Northridge Compton, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer CSU Northridge - Northridge, CA November 2015 to Present • Lead QA engineer in charge of code reviews, writing unit tests, ensuring code is well documented, applying DRY, and SOLID principles across the organization.  • Lead developer and engineer of a profile manager system using Amazon S3 for profile image storage and applying a cache busting strategy.  • Lead developer and engineer of a password-less user provisioning system using Laravel and OpenLDAP utilizing  temporary expiration tokens and email for security.  • Designer and lead developer of eight RESTful APIs deployed in production environments with over 13 million  successful requests used across the unit and California State University, Northridge to create a micro-services  architecture.  • Lead maintainer of an electronic English proficiency exam that is in use by every California State University, Northridge student utilizing Laravel and Socket.io for real-time exam start/pause and end.  • Lead maintainer of an electronic late add/drop system in use by the Admissions and Records of California State  University, Northridge and leverages an API to prepopulate student data.  • Lead developer and designer of a single page application utilizing Laravel and Vue.js funded by the Chancellor's  Office of the CSU aimed to assist high school students in the greater Los Angeles area compare earnings across different majors.  • Contributed back end code to an electronic Thesis and Dissertation workflow application used at California State  University, Northridge.  • Collaborated with the operations team to analyze and identify issues with the web applications, databases, and server settings.  • Lead of many successful scrum teams by applying the Agile Scrum methodologies outlined by the Scrum Manifesto. Education B.S. in Computer Science CSU Northridge - Northridge, CA 2016 Skills C/c++, C++, Docker, Git, Javascript, Vue.js, Php, Laravel, Python, Android, Html5, Sass, Java, jquery, Mysql, HTML, Bootstrap Links https://luisjg.io Additional Information Skills  PHP, Python, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Sass, MySQL, Java, C/C++, Android, Scrum, Socket.io, Vue.js, Laravel,  Lumen, Git, Docker