Sr. Oracle Cloud Architect Sr. Oracle Cloud Architect Sr. Oracle Cloud Architect - Dept. Of Health District of Columbia • Over 7 years of extensive proven experience as a PHP Web Application Developer in System  Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various client/server, Web-based  applications.  • Extensive experience in developing enterprise grade web applications using PHP4, PHP5, PHP7,  HTML4, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX.  • Expert in Distributed Version Control Systems like Mercurial or Git, Web Focus, Perforce.  • Knowledge on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture based Web Applications like Laravel,  Joomla, Zend, CakePHP as well as building PHP websites and applications using PHP Smarty  Template Engine.  • Extensive experience with Content Management System (CMS) Tools such as Drupal, WordPress,  Omeka and Joomla.  • Expertise in coding optimized SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and  Triggers on databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQL Server and Oracle.  • Ability to handle multiple tasks and demonstrate initiative, adaptability and capable of handling  responsibilities independently as well as a proactive team member. Work Experience Sr. Oracle Cloud Architect Dept. Of Health District of Columbia - Columbia, WA January 2019 to Present • Worked as a part of cloud migration team to move Department of health on premises resources to oracle cloud.  • Analyzed existing on premises infrastructure and designed and built a cloud service migration plan  including Infrastructure-as-a-Service, Platform-as-a-Service and Software-as-a-Service.  • Implemented a continuous integration and continuous deployment process for the two existing  applications IIS (Immunization) and WIC.  • Wrote terraform and Unix shell scripts to automate the instance creation and termination.  • Migrated on-premise oracle 11.2g database to oracle cloud with RAC based two node cloud  databases.  • Tested and implemented the backup disaster recovery system in the separate availability domain.  • Implemented an IP-sec v4 secure tunnel via OCTO network to access the oracle cloud resources.  • Set up a route-based policy for the interesting traffic to bypass the VPN firewall.  • Replicated an on-premises domain controller to oracle cloud for high availability.  • Added instances to the domain and authenticated the users via LDAP. Sr. Software Engineer United States Dept - Washington, DC May 2018 to January 2019 • Designed the architecture and stood up the entire infrastructure in AWS cloud for the M.I.S to manage and process the equipment request from the farmers.  • The M.I.S. is a multipart interface to manage and process the request. It is public facing for the farmers and has private IP-sec VPN tunnel access to the case worker.  • Integrated with Exadigm and Mirua using API to load the card with benefits.  • Implemented an eligibility engine that process all the information provided, verifies against the fed  hub data and then give the eligible benefits to the farmers.  • Incorporated business level changes on a daily basis with respect to the look and feel of the application, changes to the business policy or making one farmer have multiple applications.  • Wrote terraform and Unix shell scripts to automate the instance creation and termination.  • Took daily incremental and weekly full backups of the database and set up a policy to archive the data to the s3 bucket in 40 day, worked on the retention policy.  • Integrated with third party payment provided like e-commerce via REST API. Sr. PHP Developer District of Columbia Health Benefit Exchange - Washington, DC June 2016 to May 2018 Worked as a part of Haven - DC Health care exchange's determination engine that provides  backend eligibility for the applicants applying for health care assistance. The project I worked on is  a system that is able to accept web service request from multiple trusted source, verify applicant  data against fed hub services, generate notification and provide determination to the requested  entity.  • Technology: PHP, MySQL, RabbitMQ, JQuery, JavaScript, Linux, Json  • Worked on design and development of the database, frontend business interface, and application  to process the data across various stages - data acquisition, validation, verification and translation.  • Built the determination engine as a RESTful web service. This rules engine interacts with the database and external web services to gather and verify data for determining applicant eligibility.  • Configured RabbitMQ message bus. Integrated with message bus to send applicant information on the queues to other federal systems for verification. Implemented listeners to receive incoming  messages with verification results.  • Designed and developed a configurable data translation mechanism as an adapter to allow other  health exchanges with varied data formats to interact with the Haven system. Web Developer Spica Computers LLC May 2016 to June 2016 Involved in re-skinning of website developed in Drupal 7 and developed custom modules to support  the system.  • Performed system upgrades to Drupal websites, including Drupal core, contributed modules and custom theme upgrades.  • Successfully implemented new modules and themes into Drupal core to allow for rapid  development.  • Use Drush to install Drupal, database tasks, cache mgmt. and module install/enable/delete.  • Wrote CSS hacks for cross browser functionality such as PNG fixes and many IE6 errors.  • Built AJAX pages using PHP and created various asynchronous web applications.  • Developed an Email notification and Email campaign manager using LAMP, PHP, MVC and Amazon  Web services.  • Setting up multi-site WordPress built, customizing WordPress to support specific functionality.  • Converted Photoshop mockups into standard compliant HTML and CSS.  • Implemented RSS Feed to use this on various websites  • Worked on creating WSDL for SOAP services, XPATH transformations and XSLT mapping using  Business Works and creation of XSDs. Web Developer Softnice, Inc - Washington, DC January 2016 to May 2016 Rebuilt/Redesigned client website using TWIG, Symfony 2.0 & Doctorine while creating customized  plug-ins under tight deadlines.  • Wrote PHP codes to interact with the third party JSON services to provide an easy to configure web  service server interface.  • Technical support in the use of the API (REST structure), data formats (XML or JSON), HTTP  requests.  • Implemented functionalities like retrieving data using XPath and getting JSON objects.  • Evangelized the API services platform to the market: customers, partners, system integrators and internal development and technology organizations.  • Developed an Email notification and Email campaign manager using LAMP, PHP, MVC and Amazon  Web services.  • Create templates on a wide variety of email hosting clients such as MailChimp, Yesmail, HighRoad  Solution and Pardot. Web Developer Nemetschek Vectorkworks - Columbia, MD December 2014 to September 2015 • Part of the code revamps team to replace the legacy procedural code with object oriented code in PHP.  • Responsible for the development and maintenance of a large comprehensive and multi-lingual  Laravel 5 application.  • Developed an efficient Administration module to manage the portal dynamically.  • Developed web application with Laravel framework using PHP. Set up virtual environment via  Vagrant, Homestead and Virtual Box.  • Responsible for writing Artisan console commands to keep the migrations up to date and creating  generic controllers in Laravel framework.  • Scholarship project using Laravel PHP framework, Eloquent ORM, Codeception  Unit/Functional/Selenium testing suite, Twitter Bootstrap, MySQL, jQuery.  • Developed new cross-browser accessible interfaces using Bootstrap, JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Responsible for site analysis and report generation using Adobe SiteCatalyst and Google Analytics  development.  • Responsible for page speed testing and slicing and optimization technique.  • Authored a content management system with LAMP, jQuery and Amazon Web Services which allows writing team to publish content to their press release pages.  • Responsible for vendor relations, API integration with SOAP/WSDL/RESTful as needed, full stack  development, and monitoring/support/security. Education M.S. Computer Science in Science and Technology Harrisburgu University March 2021 M.S. University of Maryland December 2015 Bachelor of Engineering in Technology and Science Singhad Institute July 2013 Diploma in Computer Thakur Polytechnic May 2010 Technology Maharashtra State Skills Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (2 years), JQuery (2 years), MySQL (2 years), PHP (3 years)