Voice Provisioning Analyst Voice Provisioning Analyst Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) West Point, UT Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) & CompTIA Cybersecurity Analyst (CySA+). Currently Studying for the CCNP Certification. Proven experience with Unified Communications. Seeking a work environment that is challenging and rewarding. Strong passion for Information technology. Aspiring Network Engineer with an interest in network Security, automation and virtualization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Voice Provisioning Analyst Contractor for Goldman Sachs - Salt Lake City, UT January 2019 to Present o   Setting up and programming phones on Cisco platforms.  o   Trader Voice provisioning and support.  o   Provisioning/deprovisioning Voicemail.  o   Interact with onsite/in-house counterparts and vendor teams.  o   Coordinate with users and vendors to ensure on time fulfillment of requests.   o   Escalate problems to technology groups and the business managers as required.  o   Collaborate with help desk to resolve trouble tickets and mitigate end-user issues.  o   Interact with teams globally to resolve enterprise issues.  o   Provide excellent communication with high profile users.  o   Effective ticket queue management while meeting and maintaining productivity goals.  o   Enable and verify voice recording using NICE for sensitive users. Network Technician ABS TELECOM - Salt Lake City, UT November 2017 to January 2019 o  Design, develop and administer VOIP systems for small and medium businesses.   o  Assist in creating documentation and providing training for end users.   o  Work with and assist technicians during installation of new customers.  o  Interact with manufacturers and customer's IT staff to fulfill custom integration requests.  o  Assist in administration and maintenance of servers.  o  Troubleshoot and resolve layer 1, 2 and 3 network issues with router, switch, firewall and cabling.  o  Explain Technical knowledge in a non-technical way to end users.   o  Able to promptly answer support related email, phone calls and other electronic communications.  o  Coordinate field services dispatches and schedule day efficiently.  o  Ability to detect, record, investigate and diagnose events which cause disruption or reduction in voice quality. WEB DEVELOPER INTERN TRUST GUARD April 2017 to August 2017 o  Strong debugging skills and attention to detail.   o  Proven ability to work independently with minimal supervision.   o  Experienced problem solving and strong organizational and workflow skills.   o  A team player, willing to teach and learn.   o  Receive and apply criticism.   o  Self-motivated, detail-oriented and organized.   o  Perform complete testing of web applications system, engaging users as necessary. Education BACHELOR'S in NETWORK MANAGEMENT TECHNOLOGY Weber State University Ogden - Ogden, UT August 2015 to Present Associate in General Studies Weber State University Skills Technical Support (1 year), Network Management (1 year), TCP/IP, Cisco Call Manager, CCNA (Less than 1 year), OSPF, EIGRP, VTP, DTP, Dhcp, Cyber Security Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) May 2019 to May 2022 CCNA Routing and Switching July 2019 to July 2022 CompTIA Cybersecurity Analyst (CySA+) August 2019 to August 2022 Additional Information SKILLS & KNOWLEDGE  • Manage hosted VOIP Platform. (Program, Install, Support)  • Understanding of Networking and of Cisco Routers and Switches.  • Strong Communication and Customer Service skills.  • Experience with small office routers and switches.