Student Web Developer Student <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Student Web Developer - Seton Hall University South Orange, NJ Work Experience Student Web Developer Seton Hall University - South Orange, NJ August 2018 to Present Reviewed and provided technical support using ColdFusion which helped to maintain the existing data  processes and code reviews.  • Effectively used machine learning techniques like cluster analysis to explore data and identify hidden  patterns and groupings in large datasets.  • Effectively monitored online mark eting strategies and onsite content using google analytics to ensure  high traffic, resulting in im pr oved user experience. Seton Hall University - South Orange, NJ September 2017 to July 2018 Built and launched efficient data pipelines using R and Python packages to help mov e and transform  large datasets to small datasets.  • Developed new and improved dashboards using tableau to help automate reporting.  • Reviewed tickets from 2000 to 2016 to identify the most common IT challenges content providers  faced with the goal of creating an FAQ page addressing the most common concerns. Data Analyst, Volunteer The FP Youth Outcry Foundation - Newark, NJ January 2018 to June 2018 Formatted and merged multiple and large datasets using SQL which helped in sub-setting them to meet  the analysis goals.  • Gathered and processed structured and unstructured data in excel, text, and csv from multiple sources  to supp ort the delivery of comprehensive and accurate information.  • Designed and oversaw testing strategies using statistical techniques to ensure consistency between data collection sources, reports, and dashboards. Data Analyst USAID - NU-HITES June 2014 to May 2017 • Effectively communicated complex analytical concepts using MS PowerPoint and MS Word to both technical and non-technical staff to better inform data driven decisions.  • Managed and recommended improvements using statistical techniques like standard deviation to impr ove efficiency in day-to- day operations.  • Developed and led end-to- end projects by creating project roadmaps to identify the project's most  important goals and deliverables and ensuring on time delivery and task prioritization. Education M.P.A in Data Visualization and Analytics SETON HALL UNIVERSITY August 2017 to May 2019 Skills Data visualization, Machine learning, Predictive analytics, Data manipulation, Postgresql, Sql, Git, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Python, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Tableau, Css, Excel, Statistical analysis, Visualization, Training Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Python, SQL, Tableau, Matplotlib, Pandas, NumPy, Jupyter Notebooks, Scikit-Learn, PostgreSQL, Ms. Excel, R,  ggplot, R Studio, Plotly, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Visual Code studio, Git, Node.js, Google Analytics  INTERESTING PROJECT  Machine Learning: I built a model to help a business understand the reasons as to why many people were leaving. I  used python, scikit-Learn and Jupyter Notebook. Results: After testing and training models, I found the Decision Tree  Classifier model to have highest percentage of accuracy; 96%. In addition, the model would help the business prevent  unforeseen challenges in the future by making predictions using various attributes only requiring to change a simple  variable in the code. Lessons: Statistical Analysis, Predictive Analytics, Data Visualization, data manipulation. Please  Check out my code base at https://github.com/daphinerose/hr-leavers-python-machine-learning