Web developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Software & Web developer Harrison, NJ A programmer with 5 years (school and work) project experience in programming, structuring, developing and implementing programs and websites. Innovative use of technology and able to complete projects efficiently and precisely. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Web developer Clean Boss Inc - Bloomington, IN March 2017 to December 2017 • Plans site design by clarifying goals; designing functionality of webpage.  • Develops site content and navigation by categorizing content.  • Monitoring performance and results; identifying and evaluating improvement options. Software Developer China CECEP Wind Power Corporation Co - Beijing, CN May 2016 to August 2016 • Worked as a software developing team member of Production Operation Department.  • Worked on developing the Enterprise functionality including real-time status and remote control of designated area's solar windmills based on WeChat app.  • Worked closely with senior developer and learned project managing skills.  • Built concise work manner and precise time manner on group project. Recreational Sports Maintenance Assistant Indiana University - Bloomington, IN January 2014 to May 2015 • Helped maintaining the proper operation of fitness equipment and the clean condition of the fitness and court area.  • Aided the supervisor with events to better the facility.  • Attended, coordinated and executed tasks regarding to request sheets. Education Master of Information Technology and Analytics in Information Technology and Analytics Rutgers University - Newark, NJ January 2018 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Indiana University - Bloomington, IN August 2013 to December 2016 Business Kelley School of Business January 2014 to September 2015 Associate in Accounting South Puget Sound Community College - Olympia, WA November 2010 to June 2013 Skills C++ (1 year), DATABASES (2 years), HTML5 (1 year), JAVA (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Programming Languages: Java, C, C++, HTML5, SQL  • Databases: MySQL, Wampserver  • Tools: Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Office Suite, R Studio