Student Developer Student <span class="hl">Developer</span> Monterey Park, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Student Developer IN3/3iD - West Lafayette, IN November 2016 to August 2018 As a student developer, I updated client websites as well as wrote scripts for data collection and data cleaning. I also wrote a user and content management application. The application managed subscribers to an e-magazine. It also allowed admin users to update content on an e-magazine. The application was written in Node.js and deployed in Firebase.    Technologies Used:  Node.js  Firebase  HTML   CSS  Python Web Developer Intern Lowe's Corporate - Mooresville, NC May 2016 to August 2016 Interned as a Web Developer for Lowe's Home Improvement at their corporate headquarters. As  an intern, I developed a front end interface to test their store finder API. I formatted and displayed JSON from the API. The app caught invalid entries and assigned each JSON category a different color for readability purposes. I finished the project finished well ahead of schedule. Written using Node.js and Hapi.js as the backend framework and Handlebars as the front end framework. HTML, Jquery and Lowe's own in house CSS framework were used to stylize the front end. Lastly, the app was unit tested using Lab.js which is part of the Hapi framework.    Technologies Used  Hapi.js  Node.js  Handlebars  HTML   CSS Education Computer Information Technology: Cybersecurity Purdue University - West Lafayette, IN August 2015 to May 2019 Professional in Full Stack Web Developement Coding Dojo - Burbank, CA May 2016 to August 2016 Professional in Front End Web Development General Assembly - Los Angeles, CA January 2015 to April 2015 Skills Git, Javascript, MYSQL, CSS, HTML 5 Links https://mnsupreme.github.io https://www.linkedin.com/in/mitchell-lee/ Awards LA Hacks Gap Tech Challenge 1st place 2015-04 Worked with a team to develop a social media web application to help engage GAP's customers. Our submission ended up winning 1st place for the GAP tech challenge at LA Hacks 2015.    Project URL: http://devpost.com/software/lahacks-gap M Hacks 2015 Wolfram Challenge 3rd place 2015-10 Developed a web application that ranked job listings based on public sentiment of the employer. Our submission won 3rd place.     Project URL: http://devpost.com/software/application-optimization Certifications/Licenses Machine Learning August 2018 to Present Machine Learning certificate from Stanford University offered by Coursera