Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Kukdong Apparel Chino, CA Work Experience Full Stack Developer Kukdong Apparel - Artesia, CA April 2019 to Present Full-Stack web developer for Kukdong Apparel developing cloud based Enterprise Management Systems (EMS) built on React.js, ASP.NET Web API and SQL Server. (http://kdflow.kukdong.us)  ? Authentication/Authorization/Roles - Leveraged identity/roles based claims to integrate admin and employee based  authentication.  ? Designed database schemas, sql triggers and stored procedures to manage employee benefits such as PTO.  ? Developed reusable functional components while leveraging the newest features in React such as the new hooks feature to maintain stateful functional components.  ? Developed custom hooks to reuse stateful logic such as a useResource hook for sending asynchronous HTTP requests with a loading state and an error state.  ? Implemented Bootstrap styles to build a mobile responsive UI while using Material UI library components for an immersive  UI experience.  ? Performed code reviews, pull requests and solved merging conflicts using Git and Github source control.  ? Worked closely with UI/UX department to build an intuitive user interface.  ? Held morning stand ups and participated in 1 week code sprints to implement new application features.  ? Participated in all phases of the software development life cycle such as planning and designing the application with team  leaders to implementing, testing and maintaining the application.    ? Engineered a dynamic form builder component which admin users can use to design new digital forms for employees.  ? Designed an approval process for user requests such as PTO or vacation requests. Requests go through an approval  pipeline where department leaders can approve or deny requests.  ? Designed and implemented RESTful API Controllers and actions to perform data logging and produce complex data  reports.  Technologies: VS 2019, VS Code, SQL Server Management Studio, GIT, Chrome Developer Tools, Entity Framework, Trello, Postman Rest Client, React.js  Good Dog, Los Angeles, CA Full Stack Developer Good Dog - Los Angeles, CA November 2018 to March 2019 web developer for "Good Dog" (https://gooddog.azurewebsites.net), building a minimal viable product (MVP)  that tracks walking habits for Dog Lovers.  ? Authentication/Authorization - form validation, securing inputs, email confirmation, salt and hash password  cryptography, T-SQL and Redux Store  ? Content Management - FAQ, Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Implemented Drag-N-Drop, sorting, filtering, routing and mapping components for enhanced user experience  ? Google API - implemented feature to gather the user account creations through Google  ? Weather API - implemented a feature for users to get weather data based on geolocation  ? SendGrid API - implemented user confirmation, password reset and account reactivation emails  Technologies: VS 2017, VS Code, SQL Server Management Studio, GIT, Chrome Developer Tools, TFS, Git Bash, Trello, Amazon Web Service S3, Advance Rest Client, PostMan Rest Client, React.js    Various Businesses Freelance Web Developer SELF-EMPLOYED/UNEMPLOYED - Los Angeles, CA January 2018 to October 2018 Developed static html websites to provide an online presence using Javascript, jQuery, HTML, and CSS.  ? Integrated an automated email service for users to make appointments with the business.  ? Developed UI for users to navigate business hours and product information using responsive web design patterns.  ? Projects can be found at http://pacifictiresfontana.com and also http://cnhaxleautorepair.com Lab Technician Genetics & IVF Institute July 2017 to January 2018 Managed laboratory activity, equipment and maintained a cryobank of specimens.  ? Performed evaluation of specimens to determine if they are acceptable to World Health Organization standards.  ? Prepared specimens for cryopreservation by implementing gradient filtration and dehydration steps. Research Fellow California Institute of Technology March 2016 to September 2016 Designed and performed biological research experiments to acquire data.  ? Organized, interpreted and presented research findings to professors and research symposiums.  ? Performed genotyping of mouse colony to identify mutant mice for experimental use and breeding. Research Fellow Cal Poly Pomona - Pomona, CA December 2014 to March 2016 Engaged in skill building activities to enhance research techniques and organization of data.  ? Performed experiments on mice to assess immunologic activity.  ? Inoculated mice with experimental vaccine formulations and challenged them with pathogens to determine the vaccine efficacy. Education Bachelors of Science in Biotechnology in Chemistry California State Polytechnic University 2017 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, Git, JAVASCRIPT, HTML5, Front End Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/william-morris-77323913b https://github.com/morrisgwilliam http://www.morrisgwilliam.com