Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Louisville, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Warners Midlands PLC - Bourne September 2017 to March 2019 Designed and developed e-commerce web applications for magazine clients    Worked closely with customers to establish requirements and fulfill those requirements by designing  and developing systems. Developed many solutions, including mymagazinesub.co.uk,  premierparks.outandaboutlive.co.uk, radioenthusiast.co.uk, yourcat.co.uk, yourdog.co.uk, and  pianistmagazine.com. After a year of being in my first development role, I was tasked with leading a  project that consisted of two other developers. Our task was to transform and transfer a series of  websites from an old platform to our new platform that was utilizing a whole new range of technologies,  including cloud based (Azure) servers.  pianistmagazine.com  E-commerce application designed to sell magazine subscriptions, subscription renewals, back issues,  activate promotions, and provide an opportunity to create a profile on the site. Other features also  include blog posts, such as articles and news, as well as downloadable competitions and prize winners.  The site also contains a bookstore where the user can choose from several books to purchase and be  delivered, or to download the books as PDFs. We developed in ASP.Net C#, Elasticsearch, Entity  Framework, jQuery, SQL, ASP.NET Identity, SCSS, and Bootstrap 4. We hosted this project on an Azure  VM, while storing data in an Azure SQL database. We delivered our static resources through Cloudflare  for its caching abilities and subsequent reduction in load time.  mymagazinesub.co.uk  E-commerce application designed to provide a platform for magazine titles to sell their products. The  front end of the application provides the ability for a magazine title to sell subscriptions, subscription  renewals, back issues, activate promotions, as well as allow customers to register for the title's  newsletters and contact preferences. We custom built a sophisticated CMS that provides each title with  their own area and ability to apply their own tiered authentication system within the area. The CMS  provides the opportunity to edit all data that is shown on the front end, as well as change the design of  the front end using the custom-built CSS generator. We developed in Visual Studio using C#, ASP.NET  MVC, Entity Framework, ASP.NET Identity, jQuery, SQL, HTML, Bootstrap 3, and CSS. Semi-Professional Soccer Player St. Neots Town F.C - St. Neots January 2016 to May 2016 Support Staff Results Physiotherapy - Louisville, KY September 2015 to January 2016 Sept 2015 - Jan 2016  ? Instructed patients through their prescribed exercises and treatment  ? Worked in a strong team dynamic in order for patients to receive best treatment  ? Ordered equipment and materials for physical therapy treatment Education MSc. in Computer Science University of Hertfordshire 2016 to 2017 B.A. in Exercise Science Bellarmine University 2011 to 2015 Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, Front End Additional Information ? Technical Skills  Specialty Languages: ASP.NET C#, JavaScript, SQL, HTML, CSS  JavaScript libraries: jQuery, React, React Native  Methodologies: UML, Agile (scrum)  Databases: SQL server, Elasticsearch  Frameworks: .NET Framework 4.5+, .NET Core, Entity Framework, ASP.NET MVC  Development Platforms: Visual Studio 15+, Visual Studio Code, Team Foundation Server    ? Software Development Experience  Warners Midlands PLC  Worked closely with customers to establish requirements and fulfill those requirements by designing  and developing systems. Developed many solutions, including mymagazinesub.co.uk,  premierparks.outandaboutlive.co.uk, radioenthusiast.co.uk, yourcat.co.uk, yourdog.co.uk, and  pianistmagazine.com. After a year of being in my first development role, I was tasked with leading a  project that consisted of two other developers. Our task was to transform and transfer a series of  websites from an old platform to our new platform that was utilizing a whole new range of technologies,  including cloud based (Azure) servers.  pianistmagazine.com  E-commerce application designed to sell magazine subscriptions, subscription renewals, back issues,  activate promotions, and provide an opportunity to create a profile on the site. Other features also  include blog posts, such as articles and news, as well as downloadable competitions and prize winners.  The site also contains a bookstore where the user can choose from several books to purchase and be  delivered, or to download the books as PDFs. We developed in ASP.Net C#, Elasticsearch, Entity  Framework, jQuery, SQL, ASP.NET Identity, SCSS, and Bootstrap 4. We hosted this project on an Azure  VM, while storing data in an Azure SQL database. We delivered our static resources through Cloudflare  for its caching abilities and subsequent reduction in load time.  mymagazinesub.co.uk  E-commerce application designed to provide a platform for magazine titles to sell their products. The  front end of the application provides the ability for a magazine title to sell subscriptions, subscription  renewals, back issues, activate promotions, as well as allow customers to register for the title's  newsletters and contact preferences. We custom built a sophisticated CMS that provides each title with  their own area and ability to apply their own tiered authentication system within the area. The CMS  provides the opportunity to edit all data that is shown on the front end, as well as change the design of  the front end using the custom-built CSS generator. We developed in Visual Studio using C#, ASP.NET  MVC, Entity Framework, ASP.NET Identity, jQuery, SQL, HTML, Bootstrap 3, and CSS.