Web Developer Cohort <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Cohort Web Developer Cohort - San Jose State University • Graduate student with 4 years of Experience in full stack web development, Specializing in Distributed systems.  • Demonstrated ability to pick up new technologies to deliver scalable, efficient and maintainable software.    Programming Java, JavaScript, PHP, Python, C++  Framework Spring, JUnit, Node.js, React.js  Distributed Systems Spark, Kafka  Scripting Shell scripting  Libraries/Tools jQuery, RESTful Microservices, Eclipse  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB Work Experience Web Developer Cohort San Jose State University June 2018 to Present • Designed, developing a Traffic Intersection Management application for CISCO cohort program.  • Technologies-SPARK open stack Kubernetes Docker Zookeeper Kafka. Software Engineer NowPensions -UK April 2017 to December 2017 Developed and implemented 15+ public developer APIs for User creation and User profile management. These  public APIs are invoked 50K times/day by Users.  • Technologies -Spring Microservices MySQL Angular.js Node.js MongoDB Java Docker. Software Engineer NowPensions -UK July 2014 to April 2017 • Design and developed Product Planning system for the Product development and sourcing team.  • Developed Fine Jewelry Module for the Product lifecycle management.  • Developed Rest web services for the item management of the Retail Merchandise System-RMS.  • Have created a system inside application to raise incident automatically if any issues in batch job without failure  reducing the operating cost of the team  • Increased the Performance of the batch jobs by identifying the bottlenecks (reduced the turnaround time of a batch  job from 6-8 hours to thirty minutes).  • Saved around 10-25k$ for the customer by automating all manual activities in product lifecycle management.  • Technologies -Spring Boot Shell Scripting ORM FlexPLM Java.    Target/ Homedepot -USA (Offshore Chennai), Software Engineer Jul'13-Jun'14  • Developed the product specification and bill of materials module for the product lifecycle management of private  brands for target.  • Proposed design changes that could increase the performance of the application and implemented it. Education Bachelors in Engineering Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2018 to Present Masters in Software Engineering San Jose State University Skills C#, Javascript, PHP, Angular Links http://linkedin.com/abraham