Professional Freelancer Professional Freelancer Driven, Goal Oriented and Hardworking Worcester, MA Want to be a part of an organization in which I can use my skills, enthusiasm and leadership qualities to the upliftment of the firm and work towards the greater good of the company. Work Experience Professional Freelancer SELF-EMPLOYED/UNEMPLOYED August 2015 to Present Part of my job is Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing as a Computer Engineer and Cyber Security Analyst. Cyber Security Intern San Consulting - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2017 to October 2017 Worked on various projects based on Vulnerability Assessments. Web Developer Intern WebStag Technologies - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2016 to September 2016 Worked with my colleagues on different website designs and developments. Frontend development. Included dealing with PHP, HTML, CSS and bootstrap. Education Master's in Information Technology Clark University - Worcester, MA August 2019 to Present Bachelor's in Computer Science Mumbai University - Mumbai, India August 2015 to May 2019 Polytechnic in Computer Science BGIT - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2012 to May 2015 High school or equivalent in High School Education St. Joseph High School - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2002 to March 2012 Skills Cyber Security, Information Security, It Security, Linux, Comptia, Network Security, BurpSuite, Cybersecurity, N-Stalker, Nessus, N-Map, HTML, Powerpoint, Word, Metasploit Framework, OWASP Links http://linkedin.com/in/sanil-almeida-203627a5 Awards National Level Technical Paper Presentation 2015-03 Came in at 2nd position for my technical paper on Unified Threat Management. National Scouts & Guides 2011-03 Passed in National Scouts and Guides Examination with A Grade in 2011 under  the authority of Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India. Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) September 2017 to September 2020 Certified Penetration Testing Engineer May 2018 to Present Assessments Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fzzw133akyvced8l Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Projects:  ? Prepared a vulnerability audit report for Fr.CRCE.  ? Found a XSS error in IRCTC and reported it to the concerned authorities.  ? Developed a home automation system using Node-RED and Raspberry Pi.  ? For the B.E. project developed a secure banking website by implementing multiple levels of security such as Biometrics and high level attacks prevention.    Hobbies:  ? Photography, Content Creation, Music, Console Gaming, Carom,.  ? Outdoor Activities such as Cricket, Football, Badminton, Volleyball, Running,  Swimming, Exploring.  ? Exploring new technologies, vulnerabilities and security tools.