Developer (SEO Specialist) <span class="hl">Developer</span> (SEO Specialist) Developer (SEO Specialist) - Maven Software Solutions Villa Park, IL Results-oriented developer with a systems and growth focused mentality. I am  passionate about learning new technologies and refining my skills. Seeking position in  fast-paced company that appreciates hard work, dedication, and evolving technical  skills. Work Experience Developer (SEO Specialist) Maven Software Solutions - Schaumburg, IL May 2018 to Present Support client growth by optimizing the clients' websites for visibility in search engine  results. Develop and implement organic campaigns and on page optimizations.  Developed a tool for visualinzing and optimizing internal linking structure and sales funnel through network analysis. (Pandas, NetworkX, Scrapy, Sreaming Frog)  Developed a tool to automate specialist monthly reporting deliverable. (Django,  Scrapy)  Automated unit testing for client sites to reduce man hours spent on webiste  management. (Selenium Webdriver, Unit Test)  Developed and deployed a machine learning model for sentiment analysis to aid in client reputation management.  Developed an inventory verification system to detect miss-priced and miss-labeled inventory. Full Stack Developer Maven Software Solutions - Schaumburg, IL January 2018 to Present Manage the end-to-end life cycle for the production of software and applications for client and internal tools. Create backend software to meet business needs and translate  UI designs into easy to use front end interfaces.  Collaborated with product and engineering team members to define and develop  new product concepts.  Implemented and tested enhancement feature requests to improve product  functionality and extend performance. Digital Marketing Manager ( Web Developer) Lucky Bug Cricket Farm - McHenry, IL May 2016 to May 2018 Responsible for developing, maintaining, and promoting the company's eCommerce web  application. Plan and execute both organic and paid campaigns.  Built the web application from the ground up. (Django, DRF, ReactJs)  Maintained the site's database.  Tracked and analysed usage data to improve UX and optimize the site for conversions. Education Bachelor of Arts in Organizational Communication University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign ? Champaign - Urbana-Champaign, IL 2016 Skills Api (3 years), Css (6 years), Django (3 years), Git (4 years), Html5 (6 years), Javascript (4 years), Python (4 years), Sass (2 years), Sql (3 years), XML, HTML, Linux, jQuery, SQL Server