Co-Founder and CTO Co-Founder and CTO Full Stack Web Developer Milwaukee, WI Resilient, clever, knowledgeable full-stack web developer with 6 years of experience freelancing. Specialties include front-end web development, responsive design, and MVC programming. A quality focused developer with a strong background in custom builds, having planned and built over 150 websites. Recognized for clear, concise communication, a knack for understanding user behaviors, and an ability to design for everyone, resulting in higher effective use of sites, visit conversions, and time-to-market. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Co-Founder and CTO Gittr, LLC - Milwaukee, WI October 2016 to Present As CTO, Nathaniel oversees ongoing development and adherence to coding standards. He develops, builds, and maintains the logic used to integrate with Google products, Stripe credit card processing APIs, TwinJet and OSM APIs, and more. He also maintains code and responds to client feedback to improve the platform. Sr. Web Developer NNDesign - Milwaukee, WI January 2015 to Present http://natenorthway.com  Built a custom WordPress theme, built plug-ins, deployed and hosts site. Writes and curates blog. Deploys special projects and maintains. Sr. Web Developer Riverwest Market - Milwaukee, WI May 2019 to May 2019 http://riverwestmarket.com  Built a custom WordPress theme, built plug-ins, deployed and hosted site. Sr. Web Developer FacilityNow - Milwaukee, WI September 2018 to September 2018 https://facilitynow.com/  Built site from scratch based on Bulma, integrated with a WordPress blog based on the same theming, and integrated WordPress functionality with static aspects of site. Sr. Web Developer Riverwest Business Association - Milwaukee, WI 2017 to December 2017 http://riverwestbusinessassociation.org  Built a custom WordPress theme, built plug-ins, deployed and hosted site. Sr. Web Developer Gittr, LLC - Milwaukee, WI May 2017 to May 2017 http://guideto.co  Pet project of a local guide system, built without frameworks on React. Sr. Web Developer Center Street Daze - Milwaukee, WI March 2017 to March 2017 http://centerstreetdazefestival.com)  Built a custom WordPress theme, built plug-ins, deployed and hosted site. Sr. Web Developer Filth Fest - Milwaukee, WI 2017 to February 2017 Built a custom WordPress theme, built plug-ins, deployed and hosted site. Education High School Diploma Nathan Hale High School June 2012 Skills Wordpress, Visual studio, C#, Html, Javascript, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Php, Codeigniter, Reporting tools, Database, Database design, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Css, Java, jquery, Sass, Project development Links http://natenorthway.com http://@the_Northway Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vr6b0nfdcuguxfim Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/w3mmlt-1s6stqgaz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.