QE Lead QE Lead QE Lead - Cigna HealthCare Windsor, CT • 3+ years of overall QA experience with Automation Frameworks and Test Process.  • 2+ years Health Care Domain and Insurance experience  • 2 years as Agile QE Team Lead  • SAFe 4 Agilist Certified  • Master's in Computer Science Work Experience QE Lead Cigna HealthCare - Bloomfield, CT June 2017 to Present • Developing Functional test plans, scenarios functional test cases entirely new and updated applications.  • As a Scrum team QE lead facilitate meeting to provide updates to Scrum Master and Business team.  • End-To-End Test of Product into different phase of SDLC specifically System and Integration Region.  • Creating, tracking, coordinating test and executing regression test cases in HP ALM.  • Proposed and developed Selenium framework from scratch coordinated the work in different environment. Converted UFT code to selenium.  • Ad hoc and Smoke testing based on request of code change.  • Working closely with developers to product owner within the enterprise to understand business requirement and scope.  • Analyzing Unit test scenarios from delivery team to generate SYS and INT scenarios to ensure End to End testing.  • Analyzing all sorts of documentation available e.g FDR, BDR, KT, Confluence pages, Meeting recordings to develop scenarios for new changes.  • Documenting and presenting RCA for Production.  • Documenting Technical User stories and high-level features with Rally.  • As a part of T&I worked on open tickets from different roles and researched solutions to implement in the bigger picture.  • As a part of T&I developed Power Shell and Ansible Playbook scripts to configure the system with proposed solutions  • Documented Proven solutions in blogs like Confluence.    Tools: Java, HP ALM, Central Agile, Facets, Power Shell, Ansible, Selenium, Oracle Database, GitLab, Jenkins, Confluence, Rally, Excel.  Platform: Windows, Linux, IBM Main Frame. QA Analyst Activision Blizzard - Albany, NY February 2017 to May 2017 • Regression and Ad hoc testing for different games of Activision.  • Documentations and executions of test case and test plans  • Working closely with game developers and QA leads to find bugs.  • Gameplay development of the game Destiny-2 using Grognok and Bungie tools  • Regression testing as BVT(Build Verification Testing).  • Testing the application, Brainstorming and bringing new idea in scrum meetings.    Tools: Microsoft TFS, JIRA, Ticket Tracker, slack, C++, Grognok, Bug Now Lite, MS Excel. Web Developer GivDapps Organization - Albany, NY August 2016 to February 2017 • Developed the Talent Jump Start Web Application for a non profit online donation platform.  • Implemented web design using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and Java Script  • Storing and retrieving data using PHP.  • Testing the application, Brainstorming and bringing new ideas to the table Teaching Assistant University at Albany- State University of New York January 2016 to December 2016 • Grade the web Programming assignment of the students.  • Work and suggest students build their own websites.  • Help students and suggests solutions during the office hours.  • Conduct weekly meeting with the professor Intern Application Developer Dhaka, BD June 2013 to December 2013 • Designed web pages using HTML & CSS.  • Programed with PHP, Java Script.  • Manual testing  • Analyzed and documented commercial management-based projects.    Academic Related Experiences:  UAlbany Online Health Care Ticketing System (Team Project)  Team Member  • Studied and analyze the business cases to generate the SRS.  • Worked on CSS, HTML for designing the website.  • Implemented Payment Module with PayPal.  • Documented and presented finale report.  Online Learning System (Solo Project)  • Interviewed an UN project Owner to gather requirements to develop a online learning platform for the displaced refugees around the world.  • Studied and analyze the business cases to separate functional and non-functional requirements and generated the SRS.  • Designed the Use case, Sequence and Class diagram.  • Used JSP to build the view layer as a part of implementing MVC pattern  • Coded in core java to implement the functionalities like registration, add content, assignments, online exam, discussion board and grading.  All University Management System  Project Lead  • Studied and analyze the cases and requirements to generate the FRD(Functional requirement Document)  • Created E-R diagram and worked on database in MySQL.  • Proposed online management system for the university cafeteria, hall and student information system.  • Worked on CSS, HTML for designing the website.  Wrote finale report presented Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science University at Albany (SUNY) - Albany, NY Skills JIRA, RALLY, SELENIUM, TESTNG, C++, java (3 years)