Customer Service Engineer II Customer Service Engineer II SAN/NAS Professionial Phoenix, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Customer Service Engineer II DellEMC - Phoenix, AZ October 2015 to February 2019 As a Field Service Engineer I was responsible for maintaining the entire portfolio of Dell EMC equipment. This includes product lines such as: VMAX3, VMAX, Symmetrix, Clariion, Celera, Centera, Isilon, VNX, Unity, XtremeIO, Pivotal Greenplum, Elastic Cloud Storage, Data Domain, Brocade and Cisco SAN Directors, VXRail and VXRack, and VPlex. I would interface closely with customers to problem solve and worked with tools like Unisphere, Vsphere, Vcenter to ensure that critical storage solutions had maximum uptime. I also had exposure to many customers computing environments and helped troubleshoot issues on ESXi systems as well as Linux and Windows hosts.    In this position I also acquired the most recent Information and Storage Management certification Version 3 and was a certified Platform Engineer Specialist on the Isilon product line. Web Developer A to Z Unlimited, Inc - Eastchester, NY May 2015 to August 2015 www.AtoZUnlimited.com  • Built a MEAN stack web application using:  ? Tools such as Grunt, Bower, NPM, and Gulp.  • Developed a front end interface for users to interact with A to Z Unlimited's portfolios using open source elements and Cloudinary API.  • Deployed the web application online with:  ? Google Analytics, PreRender.io (SEO), Heroku, Github. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science California State University - Fullerton, CA August 2010 to May 2015 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/brettmcavanagh Certifications/Licenses Information and Storage Management v3 November 2015 to Present Benefits storage architects, administrators, or managers; CIOs or project managers; or recent additions to information and storage management teams.  You will learn to make informed decisions about storing, managing, and protecting digital information in classic, virtualized, and cloud environments.  Prepare for your Information Storage Associate (DECA-ISM) Certification. E20-655 Isilon Specialist Exam for Platform Engineers February 2016 to Present • Benefits Include:  • Achieve a "trusted resource" status with your customers and proactively maintain deployed EMC solutions  • Diagnose EMC product health; recommend enhancements  • Assist in resolving issues with minimum or no impact to the customers' business Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    SAN/NAS  • Unisphere, Navisphere, vSphere, vCenter, OneFS, Symmwin  • ESXi, Linux, Windows  • Brocade and Cisco Director Troubleshooting and Configuration  • Rack/Stack/Configure Experience with EMC Hardware    Programming Languages  • Proficient in: C++, Java, Python  • Familiar with: JavaScript, Ruby, PHP, HTML/CSS, SQL, AngularJS  Software  • Operating Systems: Linux, Unix, Windows  • Database: SQL, MySQL, SQLite, Corel Paradox  • Miscellaneous: Microsoft Office, Oracle VM VirtualBox, Dropbox, Github, Google Drive, Microsoft Visio