Business Analyst/Quality Assurance Business Analyst/Quality Assurance Business Analyst/Quality Assurance Warren, MI Result-oriented recent college graduate with a Bachelor of Science in Computer Information System, around 4 years of IT work experiences. Searching for a position in the Information Technology field where I can use my Data Analysis, Quality Assurance, and Web Application development skills along with my interpersonal skills. Work Experience Business Analyst/Quality Assurance HELM INC - Plymouth, MI July 2018 to June 2019 • Designed and built statistical analysis models on large ecommerce site that helped increase online sales (up to 22% per product) and lowered cart-abandonment rate by 23%.  • Worked with different Stack holders including the development team to propose and develop technical solutions under Agile platform.  • Created systems models, specifications, diagrams, and charts to provide direction to developers, and participated in system design reviews to provide input on functional requirements.  • Developed project plans and test plan that conform to Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) standards, and provide comprehensive status reporting for ongoing programs of work.  • Developed Test script to run manual regression test, Penetration test, and ADA Compliance check.  • Prepared system analysis document, UAT, and performed Functional Test and SQL Backend Test for Web Application functionality and performance. Quality Control Brose Belvidere - Belvidere, IL April 2017 to June 2018 Belvidere IL  Quality Control, April 2017 - June 2018  • Compiled test data and perform appropriate analyses. Used SAP business client to JIS monitoring operation and define root cause of product failure.  • Served as a technical liaison between project manager and other departments, vendors, and contractors in Waterfall platform.  • Monitored testing procedures to ensure that all tests are performed according to established item specifications, standard test methods.  • Developed new testing methods, use case diagram, process flow diagram.  • Revised standard quality control operating procedures.  • Conducted routine and non-routine analyses of in-process products. Web Developer HiTekUSA - Detroit, MI March 2016 to March 2017 • Developed web application through WordPress.  • Designed, and edited web page element and Ecommerce content.  • Developed Test script to run automation test and manual regression test in weekly basis.  • Identified problems uncovered by testing and from customer feedback and corrected the problems.  • Maintained understanding of modern web technologies through continuing education, participation in professional conferences, workshops.  • Developed system interaction and sequence diagrams and wrote supporting codes for web applications.  • Register web sites with search engines to increase traffic.  • Performed Manual and Automation tests according to planned schedules, and after any new web site revisions. Tech Support PC Treasures - Auburn Hills, MI April 2015 to February 2016 • Provided technical support to customers through Remote session and telephone.  • Read technical manuals, conferred with users, and conducted computer diagnostics to investigate and provide technical assistance and support.  • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software and hardware operation to resolve problems. Provided support by remote session and over the phone.  • Installed and performed minor repairs to software.  • Maintained records of daily data communication transactions, and installation activities.  • Modified and customized commercial programs for internal needs. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information System in Computer Information System Walden University - Minneapolis, MN January 2019 Skills QA, Quality Assurance, Selenium, UFT, SQA, QTP Additional Information • Experienced on SDLC, Agile and Waterfall platform and process.  • Highly analytical and process-oriented data analyst with in-good knowledge of database types; ability to create report by running SQL Query.  • Strong analysis skills; ability to create business and system design and analysis documents  • Well experienced on preparing System Analysis document, Test Plan, Test Case, Business Requirement document, Software Requirement document, Data Flow Diagram, Gantt chart.  • Programing & Automation skill: HTML, CSS, MySQL, Java, Selenium, Load Runner, UFT.  • Testing Skills: Manual & Automation Regression Test, Smoke Test, ADA Compliance Test, Systems Acceptability Test, Penetration Test. User Acceptance Test, Functional Test, SQL Back End Test.  • Application: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook, WordPress, Open Project  • Experienced on Designing and Developing Web Application and Database.  • Strong knowledge & experienced in project management and SDLC process and able to manage multiple deadlines.  • Reporting Tool: Quick Base, Zendesk, Jira, Spice Works, and HP Quality Center.