Visual Designer/ Web Developer Visual Designer/<span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Visual Designer/ Web Developer Manchester, NH I am a cross-media digital designer and developer well-versed in both design and code. I love the web and working on projects that allow me to push the limits. My recent focus has been on responsive and component based systems, consulting & prototype building, performance, and product design. I’m constantly looking out for new trends and technologies to help me stay ahead and look forward to joining a team that shares this passion. Work Experience Visual Designer/ Web Developer Lauchlan - Portsmouth, NH May 2018 to June 2019 Hybrid visual designer and front-end web developer at full service marketing agency.  Assisted in initial concept development to align with client scope and project requirements.  Developed and maintained the front end functionality of websites wordpress, html, and other front-end technologies.  Designed and developed internal reusable assets for analytics reports, landing page  components, social marketing ads, and html emails (the battle of Outlook).  Responsible for concept and design of print materials for marketing campaign assets and conference signage and displays. Clients included Dell, RedHat, and a variety of local Information Technology businesses. Web Designer Web-Kare - Raymond, NH June 2017 to September 2018 Lead designer at marketing agency focused within the manufacturing and engineering industries.  Created sketch, wireframe, prototype and visual mockups that appeal to searching project  managers, buyers, and engineers.  Developed and maintained the front end functionality of websites using  Bootstrap, HTML5, Sass, javascript and other project specific libraries.  Managed all communication with client to establish project scope, interaction guidelines, and project time lines. Freelance Designer Boston, MA June 2015 to 2017 Freelance designer for a wide variety of clients ranging from fresh start-ups to established  organizations, such as Lora Consulting, Maine Extractions, CNY, Neighborhood Labs and more.  Developed strong company brands with logo design, packaging, web design and creative  advertising. Education Certificate University of New Hampshire June 2017 to December 2017 Graphic Design Keene State College - Keene, NH 2012 to 2015 Skills Illustrator, Bootstrap, Html5, Sass, Node.js