Frontend Application Developer Frontend Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Frontend Application Developer - IBM Hammond, LA Work Experience Frontend Application Developer IBM - Baton Rouge, LA December 2018 to Present Integrated IBM's Cloud services with data analytics application.  Utilized technologies such as IBM Cloud, Node.JS, HTML5, CSS3, PHP and JavaScript to develop applications.  Modified existing web applications to correct coding errors, upgrade interfaces and  improve overall performance.  Worked closely with other team members in such tasks as troubleshooting and debugging. Web Developer February 2018 to December 2018 Freelance  Communicate with clients to ensure specific design and functionality needs are met  Tested websites and performed troubleshooting prior to deployment.  Designed sites to be compatible with top browsers, including Firefox, Chrome and Safari.  Created eye-catching and functional digital design concepts across various platforms to strengthen company brand and identity.  Created site layout and user interface using HTML5, CSS3. and JavaScript practices. User Interface Designer Intern Corza Technologies Inc - San Diego, CA May 2018 to August 2018 Used Sketch and inVision to execute UI design stages from concept to final hand-off Interview clients to obtain functional needs  Conceptualize original ideas that bring simplicity and user friendliness to designs  Utilized agile development techniques. Jr. IT Specialist Holden School August 2011 to May 2012 Minor network management  Service and repair PCs and peripherals for staff and computer labs  Complete documents and forms dealing with inventory and malfunction reports  Worked with IT manager and team to resolve tech problems, improve operations and provide exceptional customer service. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Louisiana State University - Baton Rouge, LA August 2012 to December 2017 Skills C++, Javascript, Node.js, Typescript, Php, Ui design, Html5, Ui, J2ee, Java, jquery, Linux, Wireframing, Sql, Training, Mac, Front End, CSS3, React, Node, User Interface, Front-End Additional Information Skills  Fundamental knowledge in: Windows, Linux, Mac Operating  Systems  Java, C++, SQL, JavaScript  (ES5, ES6, ES7/8), JQuery 3, TypeScript, React 16+, HTML5,  CSS3, PHP  UI Design Wireframing: inVision, Sketch  Cloud: IBM Cloud, AWS, Netlify  Core & Pkg Managers: Node.js 6+, npm, Yarn  Backend: Node.js, Express.  Training Java Core and J2EE Boot Camp. Completed (Feb  2019)  Agile methodologies