Applications Analyst/ Developer Applications Analyst/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Applications Analyst/ Developer Malden, MA Passionate software developer with 2+ years experience with development of business  customizable solutions and test automation. Strong work ethics in a team setting and highly  driven towards building web applications. Well versed in SQL, JavaScript and Python. Work Experience Applications Analyst/ Developer Draper - Cambridge, MA January 2017 to Present ·  Implemented an end-to-end Peoplesoft web application for benefits group to use on a daily basis  ·  Automated tasks for HR and finance groups by setting up batch processes running SQL and Peoplecode on a scheduled basis.  ·  Cut down errors in the yearly assets inventory check by designing a new software update for the mobile app which is now currently in use. Automation Test Engineer Draper - Cambridge, MA October 2018 to May 2019 • Alleviated the spending on parts in Garages  through facilitated training sessions with  • Led the development of an automated test foreman of the garage to utilize scanner  system by training new interns of the devices connected to the DB.  coding standards and practices.  • Developed test scripts in JavaScript, Projects  validating results, implementing more data Mobile iOS App  structures, and executing regression tests May - August 2016  • Developed a career marketing app for against environment upgrades.  individuals to make connections related to  • Developed queries for MongoDB to create their skillset using Swift & parsing JSON  individual DB instances for new users, data using Firebase as our backend server  backups and real time reporting.  • Configure MeteorJS web framework as the UI Controller to execute sets of test scripts  using Sahi Pro. Web Applications Co-op MBTA - Boston, MA January 2015 to May 2015 ·  Optimized the internal web application by recreating SQL queries for faster results into an Oracle DB.  Alleviated the spending on parts in Garages through facilitated training sessions with foreman of the garage to utilize scanner devices connected to the DB. Education BS in Computer Engineering in Education Wentworth Inst. of Technology 2016 Skills Javascript, SQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/joel-munoz-2b145953