Self-Taught Web Developer Self-Taught <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Bronx, NY Self-taught web developer familiar with development and deployment process  for web-based technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Self-Taught Web Developer Freelance/Self employed - Bronx, NY April 2018 to Present • Design and implement front-end interfaces and back-end service to assemble web application.  • Build and test APIs using model driven development and using modern testing frameworks.  • Build functional interfaces for mobile-first and dynamic • web applications.  • Contribute to open source website built for new and learning web developers on FreeCodeCamp.com.  • Write code that adheres to standards and best practices. Sales Administrative Assistant Baldor Specialty Foods, Inc - Bronx, NY October 2017 to February 2018 • Service existing accounts, identify new potential accounts, obtain orders, and  • establish new accounts by setting meetings face to face as well as planning and organizing daily work schedule to call on existing or potential customers.  • E-Commerce: Master the use of the Baldor 2.0 website and be prepared to coach customers on its benefits and use.  • Introduce new and current products by establishing contact and developing relationships with customers.  • Develop product knowledge in order to educate, describe, promote and sell to customers to maximize profitability and growth.  • Keeps management informed by submitting activity and results reports, such as daily call reports, weekly work plans.  • Gather current marketplace information on pricing, products, and new products.  • Resolve customer complaints by investigating problems; develop solutions; prepare reports; making recommendations to management.  • Maintain professional and technical knowledge by attending educational workshops. Sales Administrative Assistant Chef’s Warehouse - Bronx, NY May 2015 to October 2017 • Assist account executives with product information and liaises with the purchasing department and individual vendors.  • Maintain communication with account executives and management with account information via excel spreadsheets of trends and sales analysis.  • Introduce new and current products by establishing contact and developing relationships with customers.  • Collect and input orders submitted via email/voicemail or over the phone.  • Assist with processing special orders and customer price lists and product usages.  • Analysis customers by monitoring inventory trends and prices.  • Ensure team support by providing clear instructions, follow-up, feedback, recognition, and accountability.  • Work with account executives team reporting irregularities and inquiry. Education CUNY Bronx Community College Computer Science August 2011 to May 2012 Skills HTML 5 (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), Javascript (Less than 1 year), PHP (1 year), Python (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Udemy.com HTML5 and CSS3 for Beginners - Build a Website & Launch ONLINE July 2017 to Present Testdome.com HTML/CSS May 2018 to Present Driver's License Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qadcdp82kadwt5i2 Social Media — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create content, communicate online, and build a brand's reputation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/c3-ptyn8yterjvy6 Problem Solving — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/omnzgwyjbu19maxd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.