Jr. Java Developer Jr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Associate Java Developer - Internet Brands Inc Los Angeles, CA My name is Zongyang Li. I am working at Internet brands Inc. as a full time developer, and my current status is H1B Visa.     With more than 2 years experience in designing, building, testing and supporting distributed high load software systems(mainly Java) in one of the leading automotive e commerce business, I have extensive experience of Java (Core), Java web development, Java/J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, and various database systems. In my working experience, Besides actively contributing to multiple aspects on our existing system, specifically, I played an important role in building a distributed data pipeline to ensure the availability of data inventory, mainly based on kafka stream technology. I worked with machine learning team to set up trained models, designed and implemented used car price prediction services, which is a feature that made our business outstanding compared with peers. I also actively participated and contributed in the process migrating a PaaS environment from a monolith application to microservices architecture. I developed backend components for Template API services(Spring boot) and Message Trigger Services(Node.js), and initiated template migration project to migrate legacy data to adapt to the new services. Through playing roles in developing those projects I am confident that my skills can smoothly fit in roles requiring modern development methodologies and technologies.    Besides the experience working with Java related technology, I also have experience with C++, PHP, Javascript, Python, Swift, SQL. I'm passionate about every new emerging things in our field and I know: all technologies would become outdated in the future, the only thing left is the ability to learn.    Frameworks and technologies: Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Express, JDBC, JPA, Hibernate, Restful, Web services.  Programming: Java, Javascript (Node.js), C/C++ STL, Swift, php, python, Json, XML, Html 5.  Tools and infrastructures: Git (github gitlab), Maven, JIRA, Jenkins, Docker, Zookeeper, Kafka, Redis, Sql Server, MySql,  Oracle 11g, PostgreSQL, Tomcat, Apache HTTP Server, Apache Solr, Intellij, Eclipse. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Jr. Java Developer Internet Brands Inc - Los Angeles, CA June 2017 to Present LISTream. Engaged as a core member in architecting and developing a distributed data pipeline for one of a leading automotive business. By integrating data sources from different partners and different data sinks(DB and solr) into a platform built upon kafka stream technology, making it scale well and reduce operation cost considerably.    Implemented kafka producers for multiple partners. Optimized the message producing process.  Participated in persisting consumer side data into database. Optimized the persisting process with a performance boost by 30 %.  Designed solution and provided implementation for data enrichment process as joining the vehicle listing data stream with data from external source on the fly.  Configuring and managing kafka infrustructure. Designing topology of kafka topics. Dockering kafka brokers.  Distributed configuration and statistics management using zookeeper.  Conducted unit testing for components in a test-driven development environment. Web Developer Intern Internet Brands Inc - Los Angeles, CA May 2016 to January 2017 MTS. In a platform designed for automating the process small businesses interacting with their clients, the message trigger  service project is set up to schedule communication events through phone call, email and text.  Developed backend components for message trigger service include updating, fetching, generating default message  used for scheduling communication events.  Communicating with front end developer in designing api.    Email Template migration. Initialized an effort to migrate user legacy email html templates to adapt to the new template api.  Designed high level architecture and participated through the development process.  Implemented an API for compute textual difference between two html documents. Designed API for identifying  semantically equivalent html documents.    Jira-Sync. Independently developed a software that automatically synchronize jira issues within a team to Google sheets,  ensuring team members and managers an intuitive impression on dev progress. Being useful and convenient, it is used across multiple teams.  Talks with managers to get actual use case requirements and discussions with director on tradeoffs of different  implementation strategy. Independently completed the full development life cycle from dev planning to deployment, while constantly integrating new use case requirements.  Automatically tracking jira issue info such as status, assignee, dev time, content, and synchronizing them to a google  sheet, with the consideration of accomodating multiple dev phases, new coming users in a fault tolerance manner. Software Engineer Intern Zhong Ji Hui Min tech - Beijing, CN June 2014 to July 2015 Collected user requirements and submitted to project manager, Prepared detailed reports concerning project  specifications and activities. Consulted regularly with customers on project status, proposals and technical issues.  Contributed in developing customized CMS system, built-in E-commerce module for a financing platform. Lab Assistant @ Hebei Normal University Shijiazhuang, CN March 2013 to July 2013 Participated the economy data mining and analysis project.  Responsible for retrieving stock data through public api and designed database schema to store them.  Responsible for the data processing in the middle layer provide functions for analyzing, such as finding most similar  stock curve to the certain period; Compute k day average of a stock. Education MS in Computer science in Computer science University of Southern California - Los Angeles, CA August 2015 to May 2017 BS in engineering Network engineering @ Hebei Normal University September 2010 to June 2014 Skills Frameworks and technologies: Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Express, JDBC, JPA, Hibernate, Restful, Web services. Programming: Java, Javascript (Node.js), C/C++ STL, Swift, php, python, Json, XML, Html 5. Tools and infrastructures: Git (github gitlab), Maven, JIRA, Jenkins, Docker, Zookeeper, Kafka, Redis, Sql Server, MySql, Oracle 11g, PostgreSQL, Tomcat, Apache HTTP Server, Apache Solr, Intellij, Eclipse.