ServiceNow ATF Developer ServiceNow ATF <span class="hl">Developer</span> ServiceNow Developer San Jose, CA email: oravyasri@gmail.com  Actively looking for new projects  • Over 5+ years of extensive experience in IT, and Experience in various ITSM frameworks and ITOM Modules.  • Good knowledge of Web application development technologies such as HTML, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, XML, XSLT.  • Experience in Development and Administration in Service Now Platform.  • Experienced working in all the ITOM modules.  • Proficient in implementing ITSM modules like Incident, Change Request, CMDB, Asset and Service Request Management in Service Now platform.  • Experience in designing and implementation of workflows using Service Now workflow editor.  • Experience in understanding of ServiceNow application migrations. Work Experience ServiceNow ATF Developer APPLE - Sunnyvale, CA May 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Actively working on Automated Test Frameworks  • Co-ordinating with offshore and taking responsibilities in the project  • Automated CR process for all the type of CR's using ATF's  • Involved in Data Setup for the ATF's and design  • Worked as an architect to build the design for ATF Implementation. Service Now Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA August 2017 to April 2019 Responsibilities:  • Technical contributor to Service Now systems which includes three instances (Development, Test, and Production).  • Major responsibilities include coordinating, managing and performing technical activities for Service Now modules &applications.  • Worked on Configuration and maintenance of Business Rules (Basic and Advanced), Client Scripts and UI Policies in Service Now.  • Actively worked on Automated Test Frameworks.  • Upgrading instance from Jakartha to Kingston and London.  • Experience with development of Service catalogs - catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Writing the Catalog client scripts and UI policies to make client-side changes  • Created ACL's to grant access to specified users and managed the assignment rules.  • Handling Day to day Incident Management tickets according to the Priority & Business needs.  • Experienced with managed Sprints and maintain delivery date.  • Actively participate in daily standup meeting, sprint planning and retrospective.  • Worked with REST API methods GET, POST, PUT  • Work with Product Teams to Integrate Change Management activities into the overall ITIL project plan. Service Now Developer/Admin 3-D Technology Group - Albany, NY April 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering the requirements from the Business Team and creation of technical, functional specification documents  • Implementation of different modules of Service Now as per requirements and ITIL process - Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Asset Management and Service Catalogs.  • Developing integrations both inbound and outbound. SOAP & REST.  • Setting up Mid-Servers for outbound integrations.  • Cloning of production instances to non-production instances.  • Performing by weekly releases in production.  • Customizations in Service Now forms as per client's requirement.  • Involved in redesigning the workflows using Service Now workflow editor  • Worked on migration between various Service Now environments using Update Sets  • Worked on loading the data into Service Now using import sets  • Involved in creating and configuring the SLAs as per the requirement  • Involved in reconciliation of complicated workflows to simpler form.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, CSS, HTML5  Environment: ServiceNow, JavaScript, HTML, CSS GRADUATE ASSISTANTSHIP College of Saint Rose - Albany, NY January 2016 to April 2016 Developed online library Portal Website for College Students and faculty. This website enables admin to manage books and categories. Admin has more authority than students, students only have access to rent, view availability and returning of books whereas admin can add and edit books and categories.    Responsibilities:  • User Interface - Configure and maintain Forms, Lists, Views, UI Scripts, UI  Actions, View Rules, Welcome Page Content, Map Pages and other UI elements for Service Now modules.  • Worked on Configuration and maintenance of Business Rules (Basic and Advanced), Client Scripts and UI Policies in Service Now  • Development of Service catalog - catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans for students to order text books at Library Portal  • Created ACL's to grant access to specified users and managing the assignment rules.  Environment: JDBC, Servlets, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery Junior Web Application Developer IMI Mobile, PVT LTD - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to July 2015 • This Application is useful for customers to post orders online. Customers have the availability to use different operations like changing address, canceling the order. They can also split their orders and expedite online. Their order status will also be displayed on request.   • Roles and Responsibilities:   • Actively involved in analyzing and collecting user requirements.  • Wrote Specification for the development.  • Wrote JSPs, Servlets and deployed them on Tomcat application server.   • Involved in writing PL/SQL Stored procedures, views for backend database access.   • Used JavaScript and HTML for UI, servlets as front controllers.  • Developed Java Script for client-side validations.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Design using UML-Rational Rose.  • Involved in Server side and Client-side programming.  • Wrote SQL stored procedures and used JDBC to connect to database.  • Developed data layer using JDBC  • Created a user interface with HTML and JSP.  • Involved in developing various servlets and used DB2 as the database and wrote SQL & PL-SQL.  • Creating database views to pull the reports on variables, which are being used by catalog items.  • Writing Catalog client scripts and UI policies to make client-side changes. Education Masters in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems The College of Saint Rose May 2017 Bachelors in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Malla Reddy Engineering College for Women May 2014 Skills HTML, SCRIPTING, JDBC, SQL, J2EE