Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - Moody's Analytics New York, NY A Computer Science professional with 3+ years of experience as Software Developer, seeking challenging roles to leverage my design & development experience to develop software solutions for an organization that encourages critical thinking and creative work. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Engineer Moody's Analytics - New York, NY February 2019 to Present - Developed features as per the business requirements for the Structured Finance Portal single page application.  - Reconstructed several parts of the application and created reusable services to be used throughout the application.  - Implemented different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters.  - Developed several REST web services which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  - Worked in Agile environment and actively participated in periodic scrum to discuss market, requirements and design.  - Technologies currently working on: Node, Angular, TypeScript, Redux, MongoDB, ElasticSearch, Bootstrap, HTML, SCSS. Software Developer Outt Inc - New York, NY May 2017 to December 2018 - Revamped the front-end interface and functionalities to build a lighter, more responsive application using Angular4.  - Implemented MEAN Stack with RESTful standards to develop responsive, cross-browser compatible application.  - Designed UI/UX and built modular reusable code to expedite routine design and features addition to the website.  - Implemented Axios in application to retrieve data from backend and added features like user login, signup and authentication.  - Designed services to send and retrieve data from servers ensuring integrity without any significant performance tradeoff.  - Developed a consistent database model using MongoDB for user details submissions on the website. UI/ Web Developer Impetus - Indore, Madhya Pradesh May 2015 to April 2016 - Designed UI of SaaS platform using AngularJS and JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, and AngularJS MVC architecture.  - Created AngularJS routing to connect different controllers to the view which allowed to achieve single-page application.  - Created bar charts with tooltips to display the most popular product using D3.js and used GIT for version controls.  - Used agile methodologies and calculated the growth, analyzed future demands of the product and usage and popularity of every feature.  - Wrote test cases using Mocha for NodeJS and used GIT for version controls and JIRA for bug tracking. Web Developer Intern NIIT Technologies - Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh June 2014 to February 2015 - Developed a new Web application for Data Center Infrastructure Management (DCIM) for the State Data Center of Madhya Pradesh.  - Used NodeJS to implement CRUD operations and provide access to the data on the server and used AJAX to retrieve data asynchronously.  - Enabled REST based architecture & proper HTTP mechanisms by refactoring legacy code & improved the website's overall load time by 50%. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Binghamton University, State University of New York May 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology Shri G.S. Institute of Technology and Science - Indore, Madhya Pradesh May 2016 Skills database (1 year), GIT (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (Less than 1 year), JIRA (Less than 1 year), MongoDB (2 years), HTML 5, MySQL, CSS, jQuery Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: JavaScript, Java, Python, C, R language.  Web Technologies: Node, Angular1.x/2+, React, Redux, TypeScript, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, D3.js, SASS.  Tools/IDE and Databases: Eclipse, Visual Studio, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Elasticsearch.  Other Technologies: Agile, Scrum, Mocha, JIRA, GIT, SVN, Slack, Adobe CC.  Relevant Courses Completed: Algorithms, Web Prog, Data Structures, Database, Machine Learning, Distributed Sys.