Administrator Administrator Administrator - Handling Payments and Registration Paramus, NJ I am an eager graduating college student looking for an opportunity where I can translate my discipline and enthusiasm into making my team successful. Work Experience Administrator Handling Payments and Registration September 2014 to Present for all students keeping detailed records on file and reconciling any discrepancies noted.  ? Assisting Faculty with any services needed including printing, faxing, supplies, organizing documents, and with other miscellaneous issues that may arise.  ? Creating and maintaining all class schedules and making sure classes switch at the appropriate time.  ? Maintaining detailed financial records of donations in excel given to the school organization to promote additional community programs.  ? Dealing with Students, Faculty, and Parents answering any inquires they may have.  ? Typing and distributing various communications to Students, Faculty, and Parents.    Math Tutor Tutor Developer PIIP March 2019 to May 2019 Contributed to a development effort for a startup financial technology company which handles transaction payments for mobile vendors.  ? Performed front-end and back-end web development utilizing HTML and SQL.  ? Participated in a series of weekly company-wide meetings as well as localized team meetings (using Google Hangouts for video/audio communication, as well as tracking progress through a Gantt chart).  ? Engaging in market research by going out and speaking directly with target clients so that we ensure to pivot our company accordingly to meet their specific needs.  ? Utilized Bitbucket to share files and code between team members.  ? Additionally communicated through Slack platform to collaborate with team members. App Developer Verizon June 2018 to August 2018 Participated in development of 5g prototype for next generation wireless networks.  ? Utilized Kafka bus technology for rapid transaction processing of wireless data.  ? Worked with AWS and linux as underlying framework while working within the Verizon ecosystem.  ? Contributed to the development of the C++ libraries which were used to monitor and process transactions. Web-App Developer NYC Department of Transportation June 2017 to August 2017 Applied common programming technologies such as HTML, JavaScript, ASP.NET, C#, and SQL Server, to dynamically pull data from a DOT database and display the information in a front-end web tool so that clients of the DOT can access project information.  ? Performed bug testing for DOT Pavement Works web platform.  ? Utilized common collaboration tools such as TFS within Visual Studio, TFS web platform, and Outlook.  ? Participated in both daily and weekly scrum meetings.  ? Gained exposure to how large scale systems are configured in the real world.    Weekend School Administrator Part-Time Job Tutor Personal and Professional Attributes September 2014 to August 2016 Tutoring various individuals in both paid and unpaid positions.  ? Simplifying complex processes by breaking down the system into simpler pieces and showing how the pieces affect the system as a whole.  ? Becoming a subject matter expert and better learner myself by identifying common concepts that people struggle with and finding ways to simplify and better understand the concepts for myself as well.    Additional Attributes  Personal and Professional Attributes  ? Extremely fast typist having typed up to 103 words per minute.  ? Extremely proficient in executing tasks on a computer using hotkeys to quickly complete various tasks on the computer.  ? Former member of the Boy Scouts of America having received various Merit Badges and participated in a number of outdoor and community activities.  ? Known among my peers and community members to be eager and disciplined helper.  ? Also known as the person to go to when people aren't sure what to do about something. If I'm not the person to resolve the issue myself, I can at least point them in the right direction.  ? All of these attributes have established my reputation among peers and community members as a very dependable person. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ September 2015 to May 2019 Skills C#, C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP