UX Designer UX Designer UX Designer Austin, TX Experienced User Experience Designer with a demonstrated history of working in the computer software industry. Skilled in Wireframing, Web Design, and Front-end Development. Strong design professional with a Master's degree (focused on User Experience Design) Information Science/Studies from The University of Texas at Austin. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UX Designer Tasktop Technologies July 2016 to Present Currently, I am the lead designer creating features of our enterprise software to connect DevOps tools that plan, build and deliver software. Also, I drive the design of our product to make the value stream visible and measurable and develop the user interface using TypeScript with React. I collaborate closely with product managers, developers and field personnel.    I assisted the CEO in designing the interior graphics and Flow Framework™ for his market developing book “Project to Product”. Based on the book, I initiated and led the design to translate the concept from the book into the product prototype.    I initiate and conduct usability testing to validate the design decisions, ensuring the improved customer experience.    I create visualizations to help customers understand our product better, and develop user experience enhancements to the user docs website with HTML/CSS/JavaScript.    I collaborated with the leadership to create organized, engaging, and animated presentations and graphics for various conferences and talks. Web Designer and Developer The University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX January 2016 to May 2016 I used Drupal to design, build and maintain web applications for iSchool web properties and provided end-user IT support to iSchool faculty, staff, and students at the University of Texas at Austin. User Experience Designer Rackspace - Aus May 2015 to May 2016 I researched users, conducted usability testing, and redesigned the ServiceNow platform, related to the new hire process, and led the design process from sketches to wireframes to high-fi prototypes.     I consulted with the company to build an interactive high-fi prototype to create consistency between their customer and customer support websites. Education Master's in Information Studies (User Experience) The University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX August 2014 to May 2016 Bachelor's in Computer Engineering University of Nebraska-Lincoln - Lincoln, NE August 2011 to May 2014 Skills User Experience, Adobe, Wireframe, Sketch, UX, Axure, Javascript, UI, User Interface, React, TypeScript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/zhenwang614 http://wangzhenux.com