Web Developer / Marketing Specialist <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Marketing Specialist Web Developer / Marketing Specialist Huntsville, AL • Aspiring web developer with 1 year of experience with HTML, CSS, and other web technologies.  • Experienced with software requirements gathering, software testing/quality assurance, documentation, and training.  • Detail-oriented self-starter with a track record of performing well, both individually and on teams. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer / Marketing Specialist Zellus Marketing - Huntsville, AL July 2018 to Present • Built, maintained, and optimized websites for clients using HTML, CSS, WordPress, Webydo, Webflow, Squarespace, and other web development tools.  • Derived and managed a database of prospects and leads for new business development.  • Interfaced with clients and gathered requirements for website changes or other marketing needs.  • Employed SEO (Search Engine Optimization) tactics to improve search engine ranking of clients.  • Managed PPC (Pay-Per-Click) advertising for clients in Google Ads and Facebook Ads.  • Developed a foundational understanding of effective, modern marketing principles under the mentorship of an adept marketing director and industry leader. Project Engineer Pro V&V, Inc - Huntsville, AL November 2015 to May 2017 • Built systems involving hardware and software components, then executed testing cycles based on documented requirements (VVSG). Testing cycles included various aspects of system performance, including security, accessibility, load strain, power failure, tabulation consistency, etc.    • Grew excellent documentation and organizational skills through test case reporting and equipment inventory management. Managed test case data inside a custom-built database hosted on our servers.    • Suggested modifications to existing user documentation and setup guides.    • Collaborated with customers to discover innovative improvements in design of systems while staying within requirements (VVSG) and completing test phases according to project schedules. Jr. Programmer Analyst IroquoiSystems, Inc - Huntsville, AL June 2014 to May 2015 • Developed database scripts according to requirements captured from clients. We developed each set of scripts based on iterations of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).    • Worked with developers to produce and manage technical documentation/user guides.    • Optimized program design by collaborating with stakeholders and developers.    • Utilized various software skills, including Visual Basic, MS Office, UML, DXL, Eclipse IDE, SVN, Windows OS, etc. Education Bachelor of Management Information Systems The University of Memphis - Memphis, TN January 2012 to December 2013 Skills BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS (Less than 1 year), Data Management (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), requirements gathering (Less than 1 year), Testing (2 years), Data Entry, Account Management, Wordpress, HTML, HTML5 Additional Information SKILLS  Process Improvement  Verification/Validation  Requirements Gathering  System Analysis  SDLC  Quality Assurance  Technical Writing  Data Management  Software Testing  Hardware Testing  IBM Rational DOORS  DXL  Visual Basic  UML  Windows  Linux  MS Office