Jr. Application Developer Jr. Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jr. Application Developer - Spathe Systems, LLC Tampa, FL Seeking full time opportunities for growth and experience in the software field. Work Experience Jr. Application Developer Spathe Systems, LLC June 2019 to Present • GSOS cloud application development for USSOCOM J6T division (Vue JS, Python Backend, Postgressql)  • Unit testing and documentation for use of new processes  • JSON and YAML data parsing and export functionality  • Github/Gitlab source control with continuous commits  • Agile Development and daily SCRUMs  • Deployments on Openshift and Docker containers using Jenkins and CI/CD pipelines  • Mongo DB Training Web Developer/ Interactive designer USF CBCS July 2017 to January 2019 • Developed an interactive story editing web application using the newest angular framework, HTML/CSS, JavaScript  • Developed a CSV feature to analyze and download data into excel and other CSV format applications  • created an authentication interface that uses tokens in order to communicate with the database  • Implemented CRUD operations with database using http and xml requests  • Integration of server side functionality using Python's Flask Framework and SQL database management such as SQLite  • Source code management through Git and server deployment using Nginx Team Member Chick-Fil-A - Trinity, FL September 2014 to January 2017 Various tasks such as making food in the back and customer service and delivering food in the front Software Intern Communication Concepts, INC - Odessa, FL June 2016 to August 2016 • Presented product demos to customers in technical sales meetings and conferences  • Assisted with the development and debugging of the Mobile Application which provides viewing and controlling of the cameras on customer network users on iOS, Android and Windows devices  • Wrote and edited technical documents such as training guides and instruction manuals Education B.S in Computer Science in Computer Science University of South Florida - Tampa, FL May 2019 Associates in Arts St. Petersburg College - Tarpon Springs, FL December 2016 Skills Visual studio, C#, C/c++, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Object-oriented, Php, Python, Xamarin, Database, Database design, Sql, Css, Linux, Unix, Unix/linux, Tcp, Tcp/ip Additional Information SKILLS    Languages: C/C++ and Python with focus on object-oriented design and development. Unix/Linux Command Lines, working knowledge with Microsoft technologies such as C# in application and game development in MonoDevelop and Xamarin Studio. Web languages such as HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript with angular frameworks. SQL, PHP for database design. Some networking knowledge such as TCP/IP Protocols .  Programs: Visual Studio Code, WebStorm, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel, MS Word, Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, Gimp, Unity and MonoDevelop (game development in 2D and 3D), Construct 2    Communication: Excellent communication skills in visual presentation, speaking and writing technical documents and manuals and experience in critical communication in professional environments. Communicate fluently in English and Farsi.