Graphic Designer Graphic Designer Michigan City, IN Seasoned graphic designer eager to provide a creative new outlook to a growing organization. Five years  of experience in graphic and web design, including full-time roles at my college and freelance work with  local businesses. Engaged with clients from the beginning to end of a project, often adapting to new  changes and ideas along the way. Focused on continuing education and professional training to stay  abreast of new design trends and technologies. Work Experience Graphic Designer Reprographic Arts - Michigan City, IN January 2019 to Present https://www.reprographicarts.com/  Reprographic Arts, Inc. is Northwest Indiana's premier reproducer of wide format plans and designs. We  offer superior service and quality at a competitive price. Fast and precise turnaround is our trademark.  • Design graphics for political, residential and small business clients through-out Michigan city.  • Conduct on-site consultation to better realize the clients design needs.  • Deliver time sensitive graphics to clients in a timely matter.  • Manage the social media of Reprographic Arts    Redesigned a 3x8 Banner for the Mayor ball on less than a weeks notice.  Implemented a post strategy for Reprographic Arts social media campaign that has increased  engagement by 35%    FREELANCE EXPERIENCE Marketing Coordinator Logo and Menu Design - Oklahoma City, OK January 2019 to August 2019 Preferred Property Management of Michigan City Oklahoma City, OK January - August 2019  https://www.facebook.com/preferredproper tymon/  Real Estate company in Michigan City  Marketing Coordinator  Created Logo and started successful marketing campaign jump start for the company. Web Developer Reprographic Arts - Michigan City, IN May 2019 to June 2019 Michigan City, IN May - June 2019  https://raseconstruction.com/  At RASE, we transform the construction experience through creation of an environment that fosters  collaboration and project team engagement.  Web Developer co-creator and event coordinator Entreprenuership Fraternity Valparaiso May 2018 to May 2018 August 1017 - May 2018  https://www.nwitimes.com/news/local/porter/valparaiso-university-invents-competition-for-innovation/arti  cle_ec23e647-07fb-5d11-a800-aab06df6c3e9.html?utm_content=bufferaa1d9&utm_medium=social&utm  _source=facebook.com&utm_campaign=LEED  A new entrepreneurship competition to sponsor new ideas to help with various issues surrounding the area.  co-creator and event coordinator Marketing/Event Coordinator Up to Us Valaparaiso April 2018 to May 2018 April - May 2018  https://www.valpo.edu/  A non-profit organization that brings awareness to the national debt with new and inventive ways to lower the debt for the future.  Marketing/Event Coordinator  Graphic Design and event coordination Graphic Designer/ Web Developer The Source 95 Valparaiso University - Valparaiso, IN August 2014 to May 2018 August 2014 - May 2018  http://thesource95.com/  WVUR-FM, The Source 95 is the student-run college radio station of Valparaiso University in Valparaiso,  Indiana. It broadcasts at 95.1MHz FM and streams online at WVUR's website. The station features a range of students, staff, members of the public, and faculty members who contribute to the station.  Graphic Designer/ Web Developer  Radio Station managing advertising and web design projects.  • Manage team of two additional designers, assigning tasks, meetings, and client visits as needed.  • Conduct on-site visits with staff to understand their needs, goals, and overall design vision.  • Implement design strategy plans according to staff timeline and budget. Have always delivere d  projects within clients' budgets.  • Present layouts to staff, making appropriate revisions based on client feedback.  • Communicate with staff's printers and distributors to ensure they have adequate designs and instructions. Education Bachelor of Arts and Science in Arts and Science Valparaiso Unversity - Valparaiso, IN 2014 to 2018 Skills Indesign, Adobe, Graphic Design, Photoshop, Graphic Design, Adobe, Indesign, Photoshop Links https://preferredmarketingmc.com/portfolio Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    HTML Adobe Acrobat Microsoft Publisher  CSS Adobe Illustrator Microsoft Front Page  Inkscape Adobe Photoshop Microsoft PowerPoint  GIMP Adobe InDesign Microsoft Word  CorelDraw Adobe ColdFusion WordPress