Front End Developer(Angular 2+) Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span>(Angular 2+) Java Front End Developer - AT&T Seattle, WA ? Expertise in Front-end UI development with HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and JavaScript.  ? Proficient in Semantic HTML using Form Validation, App Cache for offline browsing, and experience in Web Storage, Multi-media, Web Worker.  ? Skillful in using CSS3 Box-model for layouts and experience in CSS preprocessor SASS.  ? Experience in developing responsive web pages using CSS3 Media Queries or Bootstrap.  ? Familiar with JavaScript such as jQuery in implementing dynamic webpages such as DOM manipulation, AJAX calls.  ? Proficient in using AngularJS to develop modern SPA (Single Page Application) with Data-Binding, Routing, Templates, Directives, Services and Filters.  ? Strong knowledge in using $http GET/POST method to do RESTful Web service and return promises to avoid callback hell.  ? Adept at creating secure RESTful APIs using AngularJS, NodeJS, Express, MongoDB (MEAN Stack) with good understanding of Non-blocking I/O and Event-driven.  ? Expertise in JavaScript using Function Closures, Object Prototype and JSON, Object, Array data manipulation using ES5, ES6 new features such as map, reduce, filter, arrow function.  ? Good at Functional Programming for reusable purpose and avoid data mutable.  ? Knowledge of using libraries MinifyJS/ UglifyJS/ CleanCSS for JS or CSS files compression along with Gulp or Grunt JavaScript task runner.  ? UI development with technologies like HTML5, Angular1, Angular 6, TypeScript, jQuery and ES6.  ? Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA and familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  ? Experience in writing SQL queries with RDBMS systems Oracle, MySQL, and NoSQL queries with NoSQL MongoDB.  ? Proficient in using Chrome DevTools and Firefox Firebug to iterate, debug and fix issues.  ? Familiar with Unit Testing by using Jasmine with test runner Karma, task runner Grunt followed TDD (Test Driven Development) approach and Protractor for End-to-End testing.  ? Fluent in using package management tool Bower, Npm, Nodemon for live load, module bundler Webpack, version control tool Git, SVN and bug tracking tool JIRA.  ? Worked with Core Java back-end development such as Spring, Hibernate.  ? Good understanding of Integration Testing, Regression Testing, End-to-End Testing, also familiar with Continuous Integration and Deployment using Jenkins.  ? Involved in all phases of SDLC along with Agile Scrum methodology.  ? Detail-oriented, able to handle multiple tasks; Work well both individually and within a team; Eager for the latest technology learning and strong problem-solving skills. Work Experience Front End Developer(Angular 2+) AT&T - Bothell, WA March 2017 to Present Project: Mobile Digital System (Accessory Coverflow & Dynamic Image Service & AB testing Whitelist & Rex Service) + R3 Rewrite  Project Description: AT&T Inc. is an American multinational telecommunications conglomerate. Mobile Digital System aims to build rich UI and integrate with new technologies to revamp the existing legacy system such as change slide accessory pictures to be 3D cover flow and make it responsive, also provide dynamic Image service to the HTML page image design team. AB testing Whitelist creation is designed to improve the page loading performance for personalization. Rex Service provides customers with smarter device and accessory recommendations. R3 Rewrite project aims at rapidly developing small tools and screen scraping which help to support automate, streamline and improve processes within AT&T, mainly about creating user internal info forms and worklist.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyze new requirements for different modules, drawing out a plan for releases of the enhancement for the application requested by the customer and planning work for subsequent releases.  ? Develop reusable components or service for easy testing and invoking purpose.  ? Responsible for wireless module and accessory module in the shopping project.  ? Develop client-side web pages using Angular1/Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (Typescript), Bootstrap.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 2.  ? Created reusable templates using Angular directives and worked with NPM package manager tools (Node JS) • Good knowledge on using Angular APIs like @angular/http [For making HTTP requests], @angular/common [Common core things including form validation], @angular/router[Routing for our entire app].  ? Designed the page using Bootstrap and some custom CSS.  ? Good knowledge on creating services with Angular 2 @injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 2.  ? Worked on unit testing for the Angular application using karma.  ? Called the Restful web service calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  ? Developed CSS3 to style page layouts, navigation and page-loading spinner.  ? Extensively worked with making calls to WEB APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  ? Collaborated with the front-end design team and back-end team and started converting the static files with the dynamic content with the data is retrieved from the database by the API calls.  ? Use Angular JS $http to interact with back-end services, to retrieve product data in JSON and render to the website.  ? Build Single Page Application for product module using Directives and Custom Directives to deploy dynamic product information.  ? Design and create 3D Coverflow for mobile accessories using pure AngularJS without add-on libraries and realizing functionalities as swipe, drag, flip, zoom. Make the whole app responsive in both mobile and desktop devices and compatible cross different browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, IE and Safari.  ? Create Dynamic Image Composer from client-side to reduce server pressure and dynamic display image based on user's Zip, also replace device content image dynamically with perspective and resize effects.  ? Responsible in web accessibility testing and handling issues specific to accessibility in mobile.  ? Create AB testing whitelist in tries JSON object to realize loading URL page in O(1) time and avoid AB testing if included in whitelist to save page performance and improve user experience.  ? Enrolled in Rex Service which help to provide source for the Machine Learning team and deploy the final recommendation data to production and show the user interface for targeted customer.  ? Automatically create User Input Info form using JSON Schema with flexible client requirements for reusable purpose in Angular 2 including DOM manipulation by business requirement.  ? Developed, Modified & debugged existing SQL scripts to ensure Project requirements are met.  ? Designed, developed data integration programs in a Hadoop environment with NoSQL data store Cassandra for data access and analysis.  ? Involved in using Jenkins to build shell scripts integrated with Hadoop environment, test & deploy code for Continuous Integration.  ? Responsible to integrate CQ with other third-party applications and back end services.  ? Maintain monthly Jenkin job to download raw data, normalize data, machine learning and deploy the latest upgrade propensity data in Cassandra.  ? Regular interaction with the offshore team manager/leader to resolve the technical/requirement issues.  ? Commit code change into repository using version control tool SVN. Help to analysis and comment during the code review.  ? Demonstrate ability to handle multiple tasks simultaneously, meet deadlines, effectively manage priorities and communicate progress. Web Developer SitaCorp - Somerset, NJ September 2016 to March 2017 Project Description: The project was to re-engineering the existing web application with some additional features. The rich UI will help customer get easier user experience by integrating with new technologies.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed user interface using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript Libraries.  ? Responsible for the overall layout design, create a responsive webpage using Bootstrap.  ? Used Session Cookie to implement login and logout action, Stored user information in SessionStorage and pre-fill known fields to save users' time.  ? Used AngularJS framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA).  ? Worked on consuming JSON object creation, parsing on both clients as well as server side.  ? Designed and developed modules to retrieve data and improve data using AJAX calls by $http service.  ? Involved in using jQuery Validation Plug-in for client-side security purpose.  ? Created file and performed unit testing by creating Test Suites using Jasmine with Karma.  ? Used Git for code version control, Jira for issue reporting and bug tracking.  ? Involved in using Jenkins to build, test & deploy code for Continuous Integration. Intern Programmer Analyst Marlabs - Piscataway, NJ January 2016 to September 2016 Project Description: Project mainly aims to improve the old website to improve performance and take more care of backend database to response the user's request faster.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed the client-side pages using HTML5, CSS 3, JSP, and JavaScript.  ? Developed ORM with DAO design pattern with HQL queries using Hibernate 4 with connection to existing Oracle 10g database using Spring MVC framework.  ? Implemented Singleton, Factory Design Pattern based on the application requirements.  ? Created and consumed RESTful web services to display recent transactions history of customers  ? Applied JSON, jQuery and AJAX to communicate with RESTful based web services established within project to fulfill asynchronous data request and response on client-side page.  ? Used SVN for version control tool and provided Log4j support to debug the system. QA Engineer Intern Ecalix - Pleasanton, CA July 2015 to January 2016 Project Description: The goal of the project is to ensure that the quality of the different internal applications meet the required standards through the use of manual and automation processes.  Responsibilities:  ? Performed Automation Testing using Selenium WebDriver in Agile Environment  ? Developed automation Framework and test scripts based on existing test cases using Selenium with Java.  ? Performed System Testing with testing  ? Performed Data-Driven Testing for positive and negative data from external Excel files.  ? Used PageObject and PageFactory pattern for the automation Framework building  ? Performed Cross-browser Testing.  ? Documented and analyzed Test Report generated from reportNG with the test documentation details, and submitted the review to the team Software Engineer Intern FindReam LLC - Mountain View, CA April 2015 to July 2015 Project Description: Training/orientation and focus primarily on learning and developing new skills and gaining a deeper understanding of concepts through hands-on application of the knowledge including Java OOP programming, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL database maintenance, JDBC/Hibernate.    ? Participates in learning activities around modern software design and development core practices with JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  ? Proactively views articles, tutorials, and videos to learn about new technologies and best practices being used with Java and SQL.  ? Reviews and discusses code from more senior engineers to understand best practices and design patterns from both Java and JavaScript full stack areas.  ? Works under direction of senior engineer to build a well-rounded skillset  ? Collaborates and pairs with other product team members create secure, reliable, scalable software solutions. Education M.E. of Electrical and Computer Engineering Utah State University, UT M.S. of Mathematics and Statistics in Mathematics and Statistics University of Minnesota - Duluth, MN Skills Front End, Javascript, UI, React, Front-End Links http://@injectable