Web Developer - Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Freelance San Francisco Bay Area, CA An organized, highly motivated, web developer with a broad technical skill set. Detail directed, problem solver with the ability to build website from scratch. A dedicated team player recognized for the ability to establish and maintain solid relationships and work in unison with co-workers and upper management. Goal oriented self-starter with exceptional communication skills and strong leadership capabilities.  Web Development Accomplishments    ? Tasked with solely maintaining and upgrading an e-commence site with over 12 thousand active users per month  ? Built and deployed 25 WordPress and Drupal sites within 22 months ranging from simple informational websites to complex web applications  ? Completed a wide variety of projects for regional and national clients ranging in company size of up to a net worth of half a billion dollars in revenue  ? Earned the opportunity to Lead in development on many projects  ? Completed intensive 12 week, full-time web development training program, including the introduction, implementation, and deployment of various web projects over three frameworks (LAMP stack, MEAN stack, Ruby on Rails) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer - Freelance Freelance - Petaluma, CA January 2019 to Present Website Manager/ Developer Treatibles LTD - Petaluma, CA June 2018 to December 2018 Rebuilt all pages using Responsive Web Design methodology  ? Site and e-commence stabilization, WordPress core and plugins updates, including daily website backups  ? Setup Wholesale customer portal with unique shipping and sales tax.  ? File cleanup to reduce clutter and enhance site loading times  ? Integration of JavaScript and CSS3 libraries such as Bootstrap, jQuery, Animate.css, Keyframes, Normalize.css, etc.  ? Integration of 3rd party web tools such as Google Analytics, MailChimp, Google WebFonts, Website Security, etc.  ? Cloning and/or migrating websites to staging site, for feature development  ? Strongly involved in the reviewing of design, and revising of site to accomplish a greater user experience  ? Cross browser testing and Vendor prefixing to ensure site functions properly and efficiently in all browsers Web Developer - Freelance Petaluma, CA September 2017 to May 2018 Web Developer Link Creative Inc - Santa Rosa, CA October 2015 to August 2017 Built all sites using Responsive Web Design methodology  ? Integration of JavaScript and CSS3 libraries such as Foundation, Bootstrap, Slick, jQuery, Animate.css, Waybetter.js, Gulp, Normalize.css, etc.  ? Integration of 3rd party web tools such as Google Analytics, MailChimp, AddThis, Disqus, Google WebFonts, Wufoo, etc.  ? Deployment, cloning and/or migrating websites to pantheon or local development  ? Review of design, and revising of site to accomplish a greater user experience  ? Ran each site through a thorough launch checklist including cross browser testing ensuring all sites functioned properly and efficiently in all browsers  ? Completed Drupal core and modules updates, including website backups Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Finance Kent State University August 2005 Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, API, FRONT-END, Git, HTML, HTML5, Jquery, Wordpress, Front End, Javascript, PHP Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nizarkassis