Web Developer- Intern <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>- Intern Web Developer- Intern - ETS Corporation A growth oriented challenging position, where I can apply and share my skills, application knowledge and experience for mutual benefit and growth. Work Experience Web Developer- Intern ETS Corporation May 2012 to Present As an Intern I was involved in full product development lifecycle ie Design, development and testing, have worked on C#, Asp.net (MVC), Java, Database, JQuery Mobile, Web services, UPS API, Payment Processing terminals, Payment Gateways. Have developed a Merchant based shopping cart system from the scratch. Was involved in a team Project Pmoney.com a pay by phone portal similar to paypal.com, Interacting with Miami Webservices to generate invoices, process transactions using ETS payment gateway. Freelancer May 2009 to Present Developed various ecommerce websites using Wordpress, Joomla, Custom CMS, Worked on various custom applications and scripts using ASP.Net, C#, VB.Net, PHP, Jquery, Advanced SEO, Link building, PageRank Website analytics, social marketing. Web Developer Ahistoryofmason.gmu.edu January 2012 to June 2012 GMU  As a lead web developer worked on the mason history project and was responsible for developing the mason history website from the scratch. Worked on a custom CMS - Omeka, built a custom CMS template, custom plugins for video, audio files and PDF documents integration, custom posts plugin using PHP, Jquery, Mysql, HTML, Css, Photoshop. Jr.Database Administrator Sodexo INC August 2011 to December 2011 As a key database administrator, participated in the migration of databases from Sql Server 2000 to Sql Server 2008 R2, Listing out the stored procedures and remove unused, Maintaining the database and backup regularly. Education Masters in Information Systems George Mason University - Fairfax, VA 2011 to Present Bachelors in Electronics and Electrical Nagarjuna University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh 2007 to 2011 Additional Information Skills  C#, ASP.NET, VB.NET, JSP, JQuery, JavaScript, PHP, Wordpress, Drupal, Joomla, Omeka, HTMl5, CSS3, Ajax, MySQL, PL/SQL, SQLlite, MS office, Visio, Adobe Dreamweaver, Flash, Photoshop, Grid 960, Payment Gateways API's, Shipping API's like UPS, Fedex, Linux, Mac, Windows.    Projects  ETSMS Shopping Cart  Was involved in complete re-design of the corporate website www.etsms.com and integrating shopping cart to the corporate website where merchants can buy ETS gateway supported terminals and accessories. Worked on ASP.net, Miami web service for generating invoices, billing merchants, Utilized UPS shipping API to generate Shipping labels, fixing Cross browser issues.  Pmoney.com  PMoney is a pay by phone solution similar to Paypal.com, a user can send money to friends, business using his phone number. As an intern was involved in the team and actively participated by working on various modules including Adding funds to Pmoney from bank, credit card, Profile Management, Email Preferences. Worked on ASP.net MVC structure, Jquery mobile for Mobile compatibility, Integrating Mock html with asp.net, utilizing various web services for sending emails, processing payment transactions.  PMoney MAPS - (Mobile Web App, Flex based Desktop App)  PMoney MAPS is a mobile web app built using HTML5 and CSS3 with a responsive web design is a merchant based App for PMoney to alert a merchant when they receive payments from PMoney users. Merchant can authorize a payment made by PMoney user by verifying ID and can also send Text or Email Receipt. As an intern, involved in developing the mobile web App Integrating backend part with a responsive HTML5 design making it mobile compatible and accessible across various platforms. Worked on ASP.net MVC framework 4.0, utilizing Web services of PMoney, HTML5 local storage.    Payment Gateway Terminals  Worked on various payment gateway terminals like Hypercom, bluebamboo, Magtek devices to process transactions using ETS payment terminal. Was involved in full product development lifecycle ie Design, development and testing, worked on C#, Java, Webservices to integrate SDK of various terminals and generate installer files to process transactions using ETS payment gateway supported terminals.  Sodexo Reporting tool  Developed an internal web application using ASP.net for generating custom reports based on daily Cash flow, accounts payable, sales, customer count information. Generate PDF's, graphical representation of the information using Jquery. Also Involved in the migration of databases from Sql Server 2000 to Sql Server 2008 R2, Listing out the stored procedures and remove unused, Maintaining the database and backup regularly.  Connectpal Shopping cart  Developed a drag and drop shopping cart interface using ASP.net, JQuery. Grid 960 framework. Integrated with various payment API's like Google, Paypal, Moneybookers, Implemented currency conversion, discount codes, Tracking utilizing various web services.