Information Systems Development Associate Information Systems Development Associate Information Systems Development Associate US Work Experience Information Systems Development Associate CENECO July 2017 to March 2018 • Analyze and Transalate user Requirements into Computer-Based Design.  • Prepares and maintains the Systems Design (ERD, Dataflow design, User guide, etc)  • Assist the developer in programming task. JUNIOR PROGRAMMER GC&C INC March 2015 to July 2017 • Develop and modify programs, reports, and scripts based on defined specifications with some direct supervision.  • Troubleshoot program problems and failures and work with IT team to resolve issues.  • Provide assistance to projects that support the implementation of information systems in collaboration with functional users.  • Develop and modify technical documentation to support application maintenance, operations and training manuals.  • Provide training and support for information systems.  • Additional responsibilities as directed by the supervisor consistent with rank and position. WEB DEVELOPER PHELSA October 2014 to January 2015 PROJECTS  MATERIALS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM  GC&C, Inc.  Materials Management System (MMS) is a comprehensive capability for receiving, issuing, transferring and returning items. Effective materials management involves a complex set of interactions between processes, suppliers, inventory, and the data that links them all together.    MATERIALS REQUISITION SYSTEM  GC&C, Inc.  Material Requisition System (MRS) assists users in maintaining better control over material requisitions. It is integrated with the Order Processing application to avoid unnecessarily ordering of items that are already in stock, or creating Purchase Orders (POs) in the Purchasing application for the items that are not needed.    ELECTRONIC FORMS  GC&C, Inc.  Electronic Forms (EFORMS) is an internal system that aide users in their daily activity. It composes of travel order, shipping advice, transmittal, cash advance, leave of absence and borrowing form.    CROSSCAP FINANCING INC.  GC&C, Inc.  This system is a utility that records transaction of borrowers (DepEd Employee) and other daily transactions. It is a billing and Collection system.  PROJECTS  Human Resource Information System  GC&C, Inc.  A HRIS, which is also known as a human resource information system or human resource management system (HRMS), is basically an intersection of human resources and information technology through HR software. This allows HR activities and processes to occur electronically.    Barangay Information Management System  Barangay Information and Management System, a web based system to create, store, and modify sensitive Barangay information through a secure network interface. It is designed to handle a wide-range of information relating to barangay profile, residents profile, barangay IDs/clearances, barangay disputes/cases, barangay activities, and barangay legislation    ASSET MANAGEMENT  GC&C, Inc.  Asset Management involves the balancing of costs, opportunities and risks against the desired performance of assets, to achieve the organisational objectives. This balancing might need to be considered over diffrerent timeframes. Education Certification University of Negros Occidental March 2011 Diploma Training Center School III 2007 to 2011 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Negros Occidental 1999 to 2005 High School Diploma St. Joseph School Skills MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, PHP, Wordpress (5 years), ANGULARJS (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Technologies PHP, AJAX, JQuery, Javascript, HTM 5, CSS, Bootstrap, CodeIgniter, Wordpress, Drupal, VB.DotNet    Databases MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, XAMPP Server    Software Packages Photoshop, Microsoft Office, Microsoft SQL Server Management  Studio, Microsoft Visual Studio 2012