Multimedia Designer and Developer Multimedia Designer and <span class="hl">Developer</span> Multimedia Graphic Designer and Developer Peachtree City, GA Published Illustrator and Multimedia Design fanatic with ever-evolving skill and experience in all things media-driven. A seasoned customer service professional with years of measured success. A go-to for professionals and entrepreneurs seeking to creatively advance their presence through varied media outlets. Work Experience Multimedia Designer and Developer Highly Figured Wood Products - Newnan, GA January 2018 to Present Designed and created website, logo, social media marketing materials, promotional videos and social media accounts. Prepared logo and graphics for print on various promotional products: T-shirts, business cards and stickers, etc. Graphic Designer/Illustrator Together Friends Organization - Fayetteville, GA August 2017 to Present Created character concepts for books, illustrated scenery, finalized artwork, created graphics for cover and prepared digital art for print using Adobe software. Graphic Designer and Web Designer His Rod and Staff - Newnan, GA January 2017 to Present Designed and consulted for website and logos. Prepared logo and graphics for print on various promotional products: T-shirts, business cards and stickers, etc. Helped design and layout website. Graphic Designer and Web Designer Grace Pointe - Newnan, GA January 2017 to Present Designed and created website and logo. Prepared logo and graphics for print on various promotional products: T-shirts, business cards and stickers, etc. Illustrator/Graphic Designer Self-Employed/Contractor Present I have 1-3 years of experience in web development and graphic design. I have primarily been  self-employed to create digital art/illustration, motion graphics, company logos, video content and  editing, websites and materials for print.    I have 10+ years experience in business management and customer service. Graphic Designer and Web Designer/ Developer CROSSROADS COMMUNITY CHURCH - Fayetteville, GA Present Designed and created website and revamped logo. Prepared logo and graphics for print on various promotional products: T-shirts, business cards and stickers, etc. Education (AAS) Associate of Applied Science in Web Application Development Southern Crescent Technical College - Griffin, GA August 2017 to August 2019 (AAS) Associate of Applied Science in Internet Specialist - Website Design Southern Crescent Technical College - Griffin, GA August 2017 to August 2019 High school or equivalent Sandy Creek High School - Tyrone, GA August 1999 to May 2003 Skills Adobe Illustrator (2 years), Wordpress (2 years), HTML 5 (3 years), CSS3 (3 years), Adobe InDesign (1 year), Adobe Photoshop (5 years), Adobe, Adobe Dreamweaver, Typography, Graphic Design (10+ years), Adobe Suite (3 years), Swift iOS (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), PHP (1 year), MySQL (1 year), Adobe Animate CC (2 years), Motion Graphics (2 years), Information Technology (2 years), Information Security (2 years), Video Editing (2 years), Illustration (10+ years), Social Media Management (2 years), Content Creation (2 years), Content Management (2 years), Microsoft Office Suite (10+ years), Mac OS X (2 years), Windows (10+ years), Photoshop, Indesign, Acrobat, Dreamweaver Links https://paulmcdonaldiii.myportfolio.com/ Awards PALASA - Selected for Publication of Artwork 2019-05 A painting I created was selected to be part of the 2019 publication of Tiger Tales. This piece was an acrylic painting, 24x48" titled "A Storm on the Horizon".    PALASA is committed to providing an outlet for the performing and creative writing talents of SCTC students; promoting interest in the performing and literary arts within the SCTC community; introducing members to quality theater and literature through meetings, guest speakers, and co-curricular learning; sharing information and experiences about performing arts and creative writing; and producing high quality student performance showcases and a student literary publication. Certifications/Licenses Information Technology Fundamentals August 2019 to Present Provides an overview of information systems, computers and technology. Topics include: Information Systems and Technology Terminology, Computer History, Data Representation, Data Storage Concepts, Fundamentals of Information Processing, Fundamentals of Information Security, Information Technology Ethics, Fundamentals of Hardware Operation, Fundamentals of Networking, Fundamentals of the Internet, Fundamentals of Software Design Concepts, Fundamentals of Software, (System and Application), System Development Methodology, Computer Number Systems conversion (Binary and Hexadecimal), Mobile computing.  Internet Specialist Website Developer August 2019 to Present The curriculum in the Web Site Developer TCC program prepares the student to create and maintain professional, high-quality web sites. Program graduates will be competent in the technical areas of web design, including web graphic design, XHTML, scripting, web application server-side languages, database driven content, web project management, Internet security, and mobile applications. Various software tools will be used throughout the curriculum including Microsoft Visual Studio, Adobe Web Suite and/or open source products. Program graduates earn a Computer Information Systems Technology/Internet Specialist Web Site Developer TCC and will have the skills necessary for employment in the web design field or to work as a free-lance web designer. The purpose of this certificate is to provide training opportunities for persons either already employed in the computer industry or have already been trained in a related computer area and wish to upgrade their skills with advanced courses and skills. Mobile App Developer August 2019 to Present The Web Application Developer certificate teaches students to develop web sites which include front end scripting and back end server programs. This training includes both Microsoft based and open source web programming techniques. In addition, students learn to provide interactivity to databases and web services. The purpose of this certificate is to provide training opportunities for persons either already employed in the IT industry or have already had IT training to upgrade their skills with advanced courses and skills. Social Media Developer August 2019 to Present Social Media Developer focuses on preparing the student to learn and develop skills necessary for entry-level graphics and animation developers to design, create, build, and maintain graphic and animation technologies used by modern web sites. Web Application Developer August 2019 to Present The Web Application Developer certificate teaches students to develop web sites which include front end scripting and back end server programs. This training includes both Microsoft based and open source web programming techniques. In addition, students learn to provide interactivity to databases and web services. The purpose of this certificate is to provide training opportunities for persons either already employed in the IT industry or have already had IT training to upgrade their skills with advanced courses and skills. Website Designer August 2019 to Present The Web Site Design program is a sequence of courses designed to provide students with an understanding of the concepts, principles, and techniques required in computer information processing. Graduates are to be competent in the general areas of humanities and fine arts, social and behavioral sciences, and natural sciences and mathematics, as well as in the technical areas of computer terminology and concepts, program design and development, and computer networking. Program graduates are qualified for employment as Web Site Designers. TestOut Security Pro May 2018 to Present • Access Control and Identity Management  • Policies, Procedures, and Awareness  • Physical Security  • Perimeter Defenses  • Network Defenses  • Host Defenses  • Application Defenses  • Data Defenses  • Audits and Assessments Assessments Graphic Design Skills — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/prmpem-3xjp3qzsj Social Media Skills — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create content, communicate online, and build a brand's reputation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4otjhgibjfv2hdri Basic Computer Skills — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cseh72n4s4di5fgo Basic Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of basic Microsoft Word techniques for word processing, including the use of tools to format or edit text. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/p44pljgydyjyzrtg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Publications Tiger Tales 2019 - PALASA "Storm on the Horizon" https://issuu.com/palasa.sctc/docs/tiger_tales_2019_ 2019-05 PALASA is committed to providing an outlet for the performing and creative writing talents of SCTC students; promoting inteerst in the performing and literary arts within the SCTC community; introducing members to quality theater and literature through meetings, guest speakers, and co-curricular learning; sharing information and experiences about performing arts and creative writing; and producing high quality student performance showcases and a student literary publication.  "We Did This: Black Inventions" Volume 2 https://www.amazon.com/We-Did-This-Black-Inventions/dp/1798825252/ref=sr_1_3?qid=1565105671&refinements=p_27%3AMcdonald+III&s=books&sr=1-3&text=Mcdonald+III%2C+Paul+L 2019-04 Educational materials. A coloring book I illustrated and published for a client. "We Did This: Black Inventions" Volume 1 https://www.amazon.com/We-Did-This-Black-Inventions/dp/179195183X/ref=sr_1_4?qid=1565105877&refinements=p_27%3AMcDonald+III&s=books&sr=1-4&text=McDonald+III%2C+Paul+L. 2018-11 Educational material. A coloring book I illustrated and published for a client. Additional Information Skillset  Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe InDesign, Adobe Animate CC, HTML, CSS, Wordpress