Web Developer and Graphic Designer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Graphic Designer Web Developer and Graphic Designer Indianapolis, IN Join team-oriented public or private entity where I can utilize my education, skills and experience to enhance the organization's success and operations in development and marketing. Work Experience Web Developer and Graphic Designer STOCKTEAMUP.com - Carmel, IN April 2019 to April 2019 Project Scope: The Client currently has the website launched and needed some assistance with some design and development.  ? Worked with ownership to develop and design their logo and facebook cover photo badge icons awarded  ? Conceptualized and designed badge icons that are awarded to users on stockteamup.com with the use of Photoshop and Illustrator  ? Utilized HTML and CSS to test the presentation and functionality of the badge icons. Digital Marketing Coordinator Midtown Trees - Indianapolis, IN 2015 to 2017 Project Scope: Establish the company's digital presence for customer awareness  ? Digital Marketing Coordinator tasked with creating the company's social media campaign to help increase sales and customer interaction; revenue averages about $35,000 a month or for a total $420,000 a year.  ? Coordinated and developed media for Midtown Trees website, Facebook page, and Instagram account.  ? Shot, edited, and posted videos on the company's social media platforms.    Freelance Digital Marketing and Media Developer, Indianapolis, IN, Present  ? In the sales process recognizing and knowing each client's needs as a brand are vital. Research allows me to customize each sale to the specific client. I listen, understand, and differentiate what clients' needs are, thus being able to move the process towards a mutually successful outcome.  ? Client facing consultations discussing what media services would best benefit the client in their branding.  ? Utilize Adobe Creative Suite and Web Technologies to create and deliver the clients objective. Education Eleven Fifty Academy 2019 communication Loyola University Chicago 2012 Skills Html, Javascript, Node.js, Css, Postgresql, Adobe, Photoshop, Indesign, Graphic Design, Express.js, React, CRM, Salesforce, Angular, Microsoft Office, Final Cut Pro, Premiere Pro Certifications/Licenses Certified Web Developer specialized in Javascript March 2019 to Present Received my certification from the Eleven Fifty Academy. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: JavaScript, CSS, HTML    Databases: PostgreSQL, Node.js,  Office tools: Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator, Premier Pro, Indesign) MS Office  Web Technologies: React, Angular, Express.js