Customer Availability Process Customer Availability Process Game Developer / Computer Technician Collierville, TN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Customer Availability Process Walmart - Collierville, TN May 2019 to Present Web Developer Whisper of Truantra Team - Collierville, TN January 2019 to Present Recreated the tabletop game’s character sheet and mechanics using HTML and CSS on Roll20.net.  Worked alongside the developers of the physical game to bring their vision to the internet.  Developed exclusive features such as automatic calculation and rolling of skills to better suit the digital platform. Computer Technician Patton Computers - Collierville, TN January 2019 to March 2019 Learned the ins and outs of computers, as well as how to diagnose and repair hardware and software issues.    Learned to communicate technical information about computers to customers with little specialized knowledge. Postmaster Patton Computers - Collierville, TN September 2016 to January 2019 Managed and maintained a contracted Post Office location, including being in charge of updating and maintaining store displays or otherwise leading any changes in the store appearance.    Designed the training guidelines the store uses to teach new employees how to manage the store and effectively communicate with customers. Education High school or equivalent Skills HTML (Less than 1 year), C# programming Language (4 years), Microsoft Office (2 years), Google Suite (3 years), CSS (Less than 1 year), Unity 3D and 2D (4 years), Customer Service (3 years) Links https://youtu.be/TUJpF0DrK7k Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert April 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kkhjmjm6fuce0e79 Data Analysis — Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zd-qthb8sp67y5we Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.