Back end Web Developer Back end <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer Arlington, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Back end Web Developer Project - Property for rent listings - San Francisco, CA March 2019 to April 2019 • Scaled the architecture of a full-stack application’s back-end using several technologies.    • Stress testing the application to withstand over 10000 requests per second. With response times of less than 400ms.    • Generated and seeded 10 million sets of data into a mongoDB database and optimized to improve query times from an average of 6 seconds per query to less than 22 milliseconds, a 27,000% speed increase. Frontend Web Developer Exuberant Productions (Project) - Real State on Sale info - San Francisco, CA February 2019 to March 2019 - Developed an interactive full stack application using React, NodeJS, express, and MySQL.    - Deployed using AWS with media being fetched from AWS buckets.    - Create as separate apps on a page, strung together via proxy server.    - Increased page load speeds by 300% by compressing dependency bundles Investor & Software Developer Self Owned Business - Fresno, CA July 2017 to June 2018 - Started a crypto currency mutual fund for those who would want to invest.    - Managed the investments, made calculated decisions after deep research to which investments to make.    - Created a C++ App that would calculate and keep track of all investors funds and amounts. Web Designer/Marketing Director Aladdin Inc. - Fresno, CA May 2017 to February 2018 - Handled Wholesale, Overseeing Operations inside the Bakery, Made Procedures in how to run the bakery from the front and the back.    - Created E-Commerce site using shopify, implementing their systems in store and on the website.    - Managed Online Sales and Advertisements.    - Handled all related IT tasks such as installation and repair of POS systems and security cameras. Secretary and Treasurer Engineering club and ACM of Clovis Community College - Fresno, CA 2017 to 2018 Handled Administrative Duties of the club, including Handling Documents, remain in close contact with people  necessary to running the club and keep ongoing connections.  • Handled Financial duties, managed and logged finance and searched for resources to support the club. Gadget Technician Self Employed - Fresno, CA March 2015 to May 2016 • Repaired phones locally.    • refurbished phones to sell them. Education Certificate of Completion in Full-Stack Web Development Hack Reactor - San Francisco, CA January 2019 to April 2019 Computer Science Fresno City college, Clovis Community College Skills Aws (1 year), C+ (Less than 1 year), Css (2 years), Database (1 year), Front end (1 year), Front end design (Less than 1 year), Front-end (Less than 1 year), Git (1 year), Html (2 years), Javascript (3 years), jquery. (Less than 1 year), Mongodb (1 year), Mutual fund (Less than 1 year), Mysql (1 year), Nginx. (1 year), Point of sale (Less than 1 year), Pos (Less than 1 year), Pos systems (2 years), Ruby (Less than 1 year) Links http://github.com/aimenAlt http://linkedin.com/in/aimen-altaiyeb