Web/Software Developer <span class="hl">Web</span>/Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Hacienda Heights, CA Work Experience Web/Software Developer Self-Employed - Los Angeles, CA January 2017 to Present • Built multiple RESTful web services with Nodejs and Express.  • Social network integration to client's app and implemented 3rd party APIs.  • Indie game development as a gameplay, scripting programmer with Unreal Engine 4.  • White and black box testing, unit and end to end testing with Mocha and Chai.  • Built a indie game launcher desktop web app with Electron and React. React Developer Nvite - Costa Mesa, CA August 2018 to June 2019 • A dating app with login authentication through facial recognition.  • Responsible for layout and design with a mobile-first mindset, made with React and Material-UI framework..  • Uses Amazon Rekognition for facial analysis and has the ability to run real-time analysis. Built and hosted on AWS. Full Stack Web Developer University of California, Irvine - Irvine, CA April 2018 to July 2018 • MVC design and full responsibility for Handlebars.  • Demonstrated full-stack ability and ability to meet MVP deadlines in a tight schedule with careful time management and planning.  • Displayed ability to not only coordinate well with team members but taught new skills to team members as well as acquired new skills from team. Frontend Web Developer Loiter January 2017 to March 2018 • Customer facing website with huge emphasis on responsive design and page transitions, utilizing Materialize.  • Relies on event handling , heavy DOM manipulation and AJAX calls with jQuery.  • Implemented multiple third-party APIs like SeatGeek and HERE through HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  Education Coding Boot Camp Full Stack Web Development University of California Irvine - Irvine, CA April 2018 to July 2018 Skills MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, React, Nodejs, CSS, HTML, MySQL, JQuery, Customer Service, Consulting, Technical Support, Python, Front End, Bootstrap, HTML 5 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skills    -Languages & Technologies   Python, HTML, CSS,  Javascript, React, Express, Nodejs, jQuery, Bootstrap, Materialize, mySQL, Sequelize,  MongoDB, Mongoose  Responsive Design, Git (GitHub @2juicy)    -Other Knowledge & Skills   Object-oriented programming, Problem Solving, Testing and Debugging, IT, Agile  Software Development,  Model-View-Controller, Micro-Service Architecture    Foreign Language English (Native), Mandarin Chinese(Native speaking)