Web Content Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Content <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web content Developer - Schneider Electric India • B Tech. (Computer Science Engineering) with zeal to make a winning career.  • Driven web developer who welcomes challenging projects and enjoys working with all sorts of personalities. Experienced in scripting and cybersecurity as well as design patterns. Looking for a developer position upon graduation.  • Endowed with a passion for winning as evinced through demonstrated excellence in academic & extracurricular areas.  • Abilities in handling multiple priorities, with a bias for action and a genuine interest in personal and professional development.  • An enterprising individual with good interpersonal skills with strong analytical, comprehensive problem-solving abilities & a willingness to learn. Work Experience Web Content Developer Schneider Electric - India November 2016 to Present Duration: Nov 2016 to till date  • Outstanding knowledge of XML, AJAX, HTML/XHTML.  • Solid understanding of SEO and accessibility compliancy.  • Proficient in Web production tools (FTP, Telnet, and Text Editors).  • Strong organizational and time management skills.  • Developed and maintained components for existing web sites.  • Troubleshoot coding issues and bugs.  • Collaborated with Design team to incorporate visual design into functional web pages.  • Structures content within the CMS (Content Management System) and perform quality assurance of the content and corresponding CMS templates.  • Experience in digital planning, management, and production.  • Communicates appropriate high-level content structure and personalization rules to Application Developers.  • Understands process and procedures as necessary to support all aspects of CMS maintenance and development; drives process changes as appropriate.  • Attend all project calls with emphasis on CMS needs. Education Btech DAV Public School 2012 Bachelor's in Computer Science Engineering NSIT - India Skills CMS (1 year), CODING (1 year), CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (2 years), HTML (1 year), SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION (2 years) Additional Information Skills    • Software skills: SDL, JIRA, SDL Tridion, MS Visio Code, Confluence, DQM,  • Good Knowledge about call logging tool BMC Remedy.  • Solid understanding of SEO and accessibility compliancy.  • Good knowledge about CMS like WordPress, Photoshop and Dreamweaver.  • Good Knowledge of HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript.  • Troubleshoot coding issues and bugs.  • Developed and maintained HTML/XHTML for existing web sites.  • Strong organizational and time management skills  • Good Knowledge of Internet, Lotus and Outlook configuration.  • Problem-solving and Teamworking skills.  • Client assessment and analysis  • Debugging proficiency  • Code validation skills