Front End UI Developer Front End UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End UI Developer - Verizon Atlanta, GA • Extensive experience as a Full Stack UI Developer in developing web applications in various domains like  Banking, Healthcare, Telecommunications.  • Strong experience in developing Full stack application using Angular 6/4/2, ReactJS v15, Express.js  v4.13, Node.js v6.0 and MongoDB v3.2.  • Hands on experience in developing the application using React Js and redux library  • Built Single Page Applications using Angular 5.0/4.0 Components, Modules, services, RxJS, Route  Guards, Http Client Module/ Http Client, Pipes, Form Validations, Content projection and Lazy  Loading.  • Expertise in using JavaScript for DOM manipulation, Event handling, working with Asynchronous  process using Promise, Callback Function, Closure, Prototype Inheritance in ECMA Script 6 feature.  • Proficient in using Front-end Development Frameworks like Angular 2/4/6 to develop responsive Single  Page Application (SPA) and Dynamic Web Applications using MVC Architecture.  • Experience of web service using Ajax for processing JSON/XML between front-end and back-end.  • Expertise in advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as jQuery, Angular.js, Node.js.  • In depth knowledge in developing single page Application with loading multiple views using Routing  Services and adding more user experience to make the pages dynamic by using Angular framework and  Node JS v4.4.  • Have a Strong knowledge on Angular 2/ Components, Services, Lazy loading using feature modules,  Subject and @Input/@output for communicating between components.  • Strong developing experience in Responsive Web Design using CSS Media Queries and CSS  Bootstrap.  • Experience in creating user friendly web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and responsive web design by using  CSS3 media queries and Bootstrap3.  • Experience in Producing and consuming RESTful Services using JavaScript, jQuery and Angular 2.0.  • Experience in both Relational Database (MySQL and SQL) and NoSQL (MongoDB).  • Proficient in integrating visualization for UI reports using D3.js for Dynamic Data Visualization.  • Proficient in testing and handling Cross Browser Compatibility using Modernizr, Polyfill.  • Outstanding ability to uphold CSS driven development standards.  • Experience on working with CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners  like Grunt and Gulp for Minification and for automating the Repetitive Tasks.  • Implemented TDD (Test Driven Development) by writing unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Hands on experience on defect tracking tools like JIRA and BUGZILLA.  • Knowledges in deploying enterprise applications by using Jenkins that provides continuous integration(CI)  and continuous deployment(CD).  • High level proficiency with distributed version control tools such as GIT and SVN.  • Proficiency in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used Agile and Waterfall  Methodologies and Scrum for development process.  • fast learner and consistent team player. Maintaining up to date knowledge of web development and having  the ability to work in tight schedules and efficient in meeting deadlines. Work Experience Front End UI Developer Verizon - Alpharetta, GA October 2018 to Present Project: Customer 360  Project Description:    Cell# 732-790-2705     Customer 360 is the project which is mainly developed for Verizon business users, customer360 provides a complete view of wireless business customers in a centralized location, enabling reps to perform customer analysis,  service functions and even sales via ordering application and this application serves as the one best application for the all the business users of Verizon around the globe.  This project is mainly developed with Angular and React in front End and the Java Microservices as the back end for our API server.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the fully functional modules using the React, Redux architecture and Angular 6 for the Single  Page Application (SPA), based on the business requirements.  • Worked on very interactive UI application for the users built with the Technologies like HTML5, CSS3,  JavaScript, Angular, ReactJs.  • Built modules using ReactJS features like Components, Lifecycle methods, unidirectional data flow  and implemented Routing using react-router-dom.  • Worked different ReactJs life cycle phases like Updating, Mounting and implemented React Router for the application.  • Worked closely with Java Microservices to get the required data from the backend to front End by creating Endpoints.  • Extensively worked with different React and Redux Developer tools to debug the application  • Worked with the Restful API's and integrated the JSON data in Front End UI to populate and the application dynamic.  • Worked with Angular component level architecture to communicate with components using  Input/output decorators and using the service, from parent to child and child to parent component.  • Created Custom pipes in angular for the application to use the pipe multiple times and load the application seamlessly.  • Implemented Lazy Loading and Ahead of time compilation (AOT).  • Used Jenkins for the Continuous integration, packaging the Profile Details and moving artifacts into internal maven repository.  • Extensively used git for version control and pushed the code to GitHub.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues.  • Followed Agile scrum methodology and biweekly sprint in the project. MEAN Stack Developer Bank of Scotland, New York, NY - Piscataway, NJ February 2018 to October 2018 Project Description:  RBC is the application designed within the company for employees to generate a report every quarterly. This  application user interface is designed in modules depending upon the business requirement involved few steps for the generation of the report like collecting the data from the different sources in the company and uploading the  files.    Responsibilities:  • Developed different web pages and components using Angular 4 development framework.  • Worked Extensively with Angular CLI for creating components, Services, pipes, Directives.  • Created Angular 4 components along with custom directives and implemented lazy loading.  • Used Angular 4 for navigation and services to connect with web application and API in back-end.  • Worked on unique features of Angular 4 like directives, services, routes, components and form  validations.  • Created reusable angular services, with custom pipes and built-in pipes, template driven forms and communicating with server using $http, Observables and RxJS.  • Implemented form validations using Template driven forms.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators.  • Used MongoDB for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Consumed and produced RESTful web services, processed JSON with Angular Service calls.  • Used the Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the Node JS modules.  • Developed the presentation layer with HTML5 and Bootstrap 3 and CSS to make the site responsive for users.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, web pack.  • Created the components as per design and used SASS for maintain Styling across application.  • Followed Test Driven Development and used Jasmine, Karma for Unit Testing.  • Used GitHub for source code control and to maintain the version control.  • Involved in the complete SDLC method through Agile Methodology(SCRUM).    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Angular 2, Angular JS, Node JS, Karma, Jasmine, NPM, AJAX,  JSON, XML, RESTful Web Services, GIT, Jenkins, Gulp, Gradle, ECLIPSE, IntelliJ, SVN, WebLogic,  Agile MEAN Stack Developer January 2017 to December 2017 Project Description:  IMS provides comprehensive administrative solutions such as customer Registration, Customer Scheduling,  Claims/Billing, Analytics/Reporting. This project was developed to expand the business and reliability of the firm and provide more direct and state of the art solutions for its client.    Responsibilities:  • Developed single page application (SPA) using MEAN stack: Mongo DB, Express, Angular 2.0 and Node.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript.  • Pages are implemented with Angular 2.0 routing and Created custom directives for re-usable  components.  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency.  • Implemented input, output decorators and Subject for communicating between the components.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular 2.0 framework.  • Designed the search pages with pagination, sorting and search functionality and Angular Http  Services to create a well-structured application for pagination, sorting and search functionality.  • Wrote a combination of jQuery plugins, as well as completely custom JavaScript to build a bleeding-edge,  AJAX-driven user interface.  • Heavily used HTML5, Bootstrap 3 and CSS3 to make the overall site responsive and less complicated for the end users who use the website heavily on a day-to-day basis.  • Used Google analytic reports, optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using LESS - CSS.  • Used Bootstrap to develop complex page layouts including nav-bars, headers, footers, left side bars,  content area and so on.  • Used NPM for installing required node modules and other published Angular NPM modules.  • Manipulated data using CRUD (create, read, update and delete) operations of MongoDB database  management system and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service.  • Worked on D3.js to accomplish dynamic data visualizations for tracking application module and report  module.  • Wrote the unit test cases to test the functionality of the code using Karma test runner and Jasmine  framework.  • Maintain the code base by frequent updates to revision using GIT version control system.  • Followed Agile methodology, interacted directly with the client to provide/take feedback on the features,  suggest/implement optimal solutions, and tailor application to customer needs.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular1.5, Node.jsv4, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, RESTFUL web service,  LESS, Grunt, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, XML, Boostrap3, MongoDB, NPM, D3.js, Karma, Jasmine MEAN Stack Developer February 2015 to December 2015 Description:  Project was to create SPA application for the to identify the frauds and Fraud Resolve is a Web-based service that  automates and simplifies the fraud identification and analysis work flow    Responsibilities:  • Implement the web application using MEAN stack technologies (MongoDB, Express, Angular Js,  Node.js) HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and other web technologies  • Designed the front-end applications and user interactive web pages using web technologies like Angular Js.  • Performed CRUD operations and Data Migrations in the Mongo Database.  • Worked closely with business system analysts understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI  modules built.  • Extensive use of Grunt and Gulp as a build tool for minifying the code in JavaScript.  • Worked in consuming the RESTFUL web services and made use of CRUD Services for effective use of Web services.  • Coded in Angular JS MVC framework to build the Web application for the internal use of the organization.  • Used Media Queries to design responsive web pages using CSS3.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON,  Angular JS, JavaScript.  • Developed various customized views and templates using Handlebars, JavaScript, HTML.  • Made enhancements to existing CSS, made upgrades using Twitter Bootstrap model.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements  etc.  • Collaborated with teammates and updated application versions using SVN.    Environment:  HTML 5.0, CSS 3, Bootstrap 3.0, JavaScript, AngularJS 1.5, NodeJS 4.0, ExpressJS, jQuery, Ajax, JSON,  Apache Server, Mongo DB 2.2, Restful, Test Driven Development, Web Application Developer Digitrix Technologies Limited May 2014 to January 2015 Description:  Digitrix Technologies Limited is a trend-setting and fascinating innovative Enterprise Product-based Solutions  Company. It provides solutions in the areas of subscriber billing, customer relationship management, service  fulfillment, identity and access management to customers.    Responsibilities:  • Implementing the Design and developing modules using Agile Methodology.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML4, CSS3.  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front end development  frameworks including Bootstrap.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins, AJAX, JavaScript.  • Developed UX design patterns and used jQuery and AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Created SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operations on MySQL database.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop-up Screens and used HTML to make dropdown menus  on web pages.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform  compatibility.    Environment:  HTML4, CSS2/3, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL, BOOTSTRAP UI developer August 2013 to February 2014 Project: Credit Card Rewards  Description:  This application is used by the Banking clients to provides services like online banking, loans, credit cards and Forex  Card using the application generated records.  Responsibilities:  • Built pages using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS and HTML.  • Worked with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin.  • Involved in writing application level code to perform client-side validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines.  Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Focused on resolving cross browser compatibility issues related to CSS and JavaScript.    Environment:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, MYSQL Education Master's Skills Ajax (3 years), Bootstrap (3 years), C (Less than 1 year), database (2 years), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), git (1 year), Html5 (3 years), Java (Less than 1 year), Javascript (4 years), Jquery (3 years), Json (3 years), Junit (Less than 1 year), Mongodb (2 years), Ms sql server (Less than 1 year), Mysql (1 year), Pl/sql (Less than 1 year), Sdlc (Less than 1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), version control (2 years), web services (1 year), UI, Front-End, React, Front End, Angular, TECHNICAL SKILLS: Languages \ Tools\ HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, \ QUnit, Karma, Jasmine, Grunt, Jackson, JUnit, \ AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Angular 4, Node JS, \ D3 JS, Fusion Charts, Firebug, Chrome \ Core Java, PL/SQL, JSPs, Python, C, C++.\ Developer tools \ Programming Languages\ Database\ JavaScript, Typescript, C, C++. MySQL, MS SQL server, MongoDB. Web Services\ Methodologies\ SOAP, RESTful.\ SDLC, AGILE, TDD, Waterfall.\ Version Control\ IDE & Editors\ GIT.\ WebStorm, Eclipse, Sublime Text, Atom.\6 (6 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License