Digital Marketing Specialist Digital Marketing Specialist Digital Marketing Specialist - YMT Vacations Los Angeles, CA More than six years of experience in digital marketing and web development with focuses on paid social, SEM, social media management, SEO, eCommerce, website creation, email marketing, and programmatic display advertising. Work Experience Digital Marketing Specialist YMT Vacations August 2018 to Present • Oversee and manage paid social, SEM, SEO, programmatic display advertising, web development, and content marketing teams.  • Provide strategic planning and execution to improve usability, design, content, and conversion of company's social media and website.  • Plan and budget monthly digital ad spend budget over $50k.  • Measure and report monthly performance of digital ad campaigns and assess  against goals for executive team.  • Generate $1M in monthly digital marketing revenue from ad campaigns  containing high ROI.  • Create custom landing pages for paid search, refer a friend program, loyalty  program, and sweepstake campaigns.  • Develop and execute online brand reputation management plan.  • Manage daily content management system updates, report website issues, and create support tickets.  • Provide daily SEO optimizations to website and blog content including redirects, disavowing domains, and canonical tagging.  • Develop SEO strategies to increase the number of visitors to website and achieve top SERP results. Web Developer / Digital Marketing Specialist Awesome Web Dev, Inc May 2017 to December 2018 • Launched web and marketing services agency alongside two other web developers  targeted at small businesses in the legal, finance, ecommerce, food, and entertainment verticals.  • Developed business infrastructure from the ground up.  • Provided consulting of digital marketing strategies and online brand development.  • Manage social media marketing and content marketing for clients to maximize brand  awareness, traffic, and conversions.  • Developed digital ad campaigns for clients that generate over 20k in monthly  revenue.  • Designed and develop websites / eCommerce stores for clients.  • Coded custom email templates and execute targeted email workflows for clients.  • Designed and developed custom landing pages for clients to generate leads and sales.  • Created monthly analytic reports for clients.  • Executed general website maintenance and support services. Web Developer Web Promo, Inc June 2016 to September 2017 • Provided web development, maintenance, and support services for Web Promo and Law Promo clients  •  Led production of over 50 website development projects with budgets between  $3,000 to $20,000+  • Coordinated with developer, marketing, and creative teams to create website  wireframes, assets, maintain project deadlines, and ensure quality of work.  •  Built WordPress websites and website templates from scratch using  programming languages, custom post types, custom fields (ACF), and various  themes and plugins as appropriate for each project  • Managed support team, leading and performing general maintenance of over  300 websites (updating content, creating backups, repairing broken assets, restoring websites, website migrations, etc.); Improved company's response time  to support tickets to less than 4 hours and achieved a 90%+ customer  satisfaction rating year over year. eCommerce / Online Recruiting Intern Hot Topic, Inc November 2014 to June 2015 • Ensured paid search ads were performing properly, analyzed SEM campaign results, and provided changes to paid search strategies.  • Served as social media manager for Torrid and Hot Topic LinkedIn profiles.  • Developed Hot Topic and Torrid career websites targeted towards online recruitment  • Coordinated the website development lifecycle, including writing content, editing  photos, and working with the Marketing, IT, Legal, and HR teams.  • Completed the Hot Topic and Torrid's Glassdoor web pages; developed Glassdoor  response policy with HR and Legal.  • Analyzed competitor tactics and provided analysis of key metrics and trend data.  • Assisted with affiliate marketing to ensure the correct deals were posted on affiliate  partner websites which included RetailMeNot, Coupons.com, Coupon Chief, etc. Business Development Officer SVL Investment Management December 2013 to November 2014 • Managed design and development of company's website - http://svlinvestment.com  • Generated leads and brand exposure through the creation of a webinar program.  • Created promotional brochure, outreach materials, and oversaw distribution to potential clients.  • Met with prospective clients to promote company products and services. Education BS in Business Administration in Marketing California State University - Long Beach, CA August 2015 Skills Digital Marketing (6 years), CSS3, HTML 5, Javascript, JSON, SEMrush, Wordpress, Google Analytics, Google Adwords, Google Webmaster Tools, Facebook Ads Manager, Shopify, WooCommerce, HubSpot, Joomla, Bing Ads, Marketing, HTML, Photoshop, SEO, Social Media Marketing, After Effects, Pro Tools, Google Tag Manager