Information Designer Information Designer Software developer Tacoma, WA Creative problem solver with strong skills in web application development and data visualization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Designer Boston University Public Health Post - Boston, MA September 2018 to Present Creating custom visualizations for the Boston University's Public Health Post. I use a variety of tools including Processing, Adobe Illustrator and D3 to create compelling representations of health data. Volunteer Unity Game Developer Neuroscape - San Francisco, CA January 2019 to June 2019 For one of the world's premier translational neuroscience facilities, I had the opportunity to improve a game's mechanics and collection and add new functionality such as localization, for a study in rehabilitation of participants with Multiple sclerosis. Web Application Developer Appworks Technologies Inc. - Boston, MA January 2019 to April 2019 - Designed and implemented technology solutions to address pain points.   - UI/UX : Robust user interfaces and interactive data dashboards   - Back end programming, structuring APIs and databases.   - Coordinating project goals within remote team Developer CEA List - Paris, France October 2016 to February 2017 In a cross functional team of designers and researchers, my partner and I co-wrote a game to help popularize and commercialize a technology developed by France's Alternative Energies and Atomic Commission.  • Contributed to new features of a domain specific proprietary language, ARTiMon, designed for real time monitoring of critical systems.  • Game design and gameplay scripting in Unity  • Configured a wearable RaspberryPi to communicate over TCP sockets with the .NET API (IoT) Help Desk Administrator Rapid7 - Boston, MA August 2014 to February 2015 Worked in a close knit team to provide internal support of personal computers, enterprise software, systems administration, purchasing, network and telephony. Internet Radio Technician Mass Movement Radio - Boston, MA December 2010 to March 2013 Promotion, analysis and maintenance of an internationally syndicated dance music podcast.  • Programatically updated RSS feeds  • Used analytics tools to track listeners and their locations Education Certificate in Digital Technology in Software Engineering École 42 - Paris, France February 2016 to August 2019 Skills Redux, React, D3, Node, SQL, CouchDB, Mongo, Express, Git, Unix, CSS, HTML, OpenCL, AWS, Javascript, C#, Jenkins Links http://github.com/dgaitsgo https://www.dgaitsgo.com Certifications/Licenses Spatial Data Science and Applications from Yonsei University July 2018 to Present The course covered the entire ecosystem necessary to manage Spatial Big Data including GIS, Spatial Data Analysis, Hadoop (Spatial Hadoop, Hive, Pig) and Spatial Database systems (PostGIS)