Bookkeeper/Office Assistant Bookkeeper/Office Assistant Bookkeeper/Office Assistant - Crossroads Business Services, LLC Reed City, MI Enthusiastic and committed to strong communication and interpersonal skills that allow for effective collaboration when working in an individual or team-centered environment. Extremely detailed and able to document concepts while using problem solving skills to find creative and innovative solutions. Work Experience Bookkeeper/Office Assistant Crossroads Business Services, LLC - Reed City, MI January 2019 to July 2019 • Entering client business transactions into QuickBooks desktop and QuickBooks Online.  • Created checks using QuickBooks for vendors and subcontractors, accounts payable.  • Collected revenue from clients and applied to their QuickBooks accounts, accounts receivable.  • Assisted in journal entries. bank reconciliations and pulled financial reports.  • Assisted with end of the year payroll such as W2 and 1099 creation.  • Participated with preparation of business client taxes and year end reports such as annual sales.  • Invoiced clients, took calls, answered emails and filed documents.  • Documented using accounting working papers client invoicing and payments, recorded using Excel current billings and client payments for each month and took client payments using Square, cash or check.    Employment Continued Office Assistant Family Healthcare Dental Office - Cadillac, MI August 2018 to December 2018 Assisting patients with scheduling upcoming appointments and any questions or concerns they may have.  ? Opening and closing the office, creating batch reports for collected payments, and adjustments for insurance and discount programs.  ? Answering phone calls, scanning patient documents into the program, collecting payments, locating and accounting for insurance. Web Developer Ace Home Health Care - Howard City, MI April 2015 to June 2015 Reconstructed a company website using Foundation as the front-end framework (https://www.behance.net/Aralys)  ? Collaborated effectively on all website development and design areas including site design and content while ensuring client satisfaction.  ? Composed HTML coding, CSS coding, and configuration.  ? Implemented interactivity, connectivity, and integration of many web features and functions. Office Assistant Donley's Tree Service - Big Rapids, MI July 2005 to May 2008 Answered customer calls, wrote up invoices and estimates, filed various forms of paperwork.  ? Sorted receipts according to deductions or assets and assisted in tax preparation.  ? Troubleshoot office related issues such as software, and office equipment. Education Associate of Business in Accounting Baker College - Flint, MI March 2019 Associate of Applied Science in Web Development Baker College - Flint, MI June 2015 Skills ACCOUNTING, TAXATION, FINANCE, INTERMEDIATE ACCOUNTING, Quickbooks, Filing, Billing, Microsoft Office, Scheduling, Excel, MS Office, Receptionist, Outlook, Organizational Skills, Customer Service, Time Management, Clerical