Net Developer Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Net Developer - AIG, TX Texas City, TX • .NET Professional with 5+ years of experience in development/programming for web based, multi-tier applications  • Worked on Technologies such as .NET Framework (4.7/4.5/3.0), ASP.Net, C#, Web Services, IIS, SOAP, WSDL, XML, XSLT, HTML, JavaScript, WCF, MVC 5.1, Visual Studio.Net 2013, AJAX, ADO.NET, JSON, AngularJS, CSS, Web services  • Experience in SQL Server 2008/2012  • Experience with XML, XSLT, User Controls, Custom Controls, SOAP, WSDL, Web Services, Validation Controls, Authentications like windows authentication, forms authentication.  • Experience working extensively in all phases of a Software development life cycle(SDLC) from Requirements gathering, analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Debugging, Implementation, Documentation, and Maintenance support  • Experience in developing applications using ASP.Net, C#, Web Services, XML, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS, XML Technologies, HTML, AngularJS, Web Development & Deployment  • IDEs for development - Microsoft Visual Studio Team Foundation Version, SQL Server  • Experience with analytical skills in analyzing & resolving support issues, Bug fixing and building patches to release for clients.  • Excellent team player with good communication, people, and leadership skills. Energetic to learn new technology and can easily grasp concepts Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Net Developer AIG, TX February 2018 to Present • Experience with XML, XSLT, User Controls, Custom Controls, SOAP, WSDL, Web Services, Validation Controls, Authentications like windows authentication, forms authentication.  • Involved in enhancing already existing application which was written in ASP.NET MVC.  • Used AJAX Toolkit to increase the functionality of the web page.  • Developed controllers and its action methods for the entire workflow for the application with ASP.NET MVC  • Created and used stored procedures for the data access in the oracle using SQL Developer.  • Used Microsoft Entity Framework Code First approach for the Data Access Layer for the ASP.NET MVC 4 application.  • Used Devart as the ADO.NET Data Provider tool for connecting to the database.  • Used NHibernate as object-relational mapping for the .NET framework.  • Worked on REST web service calls to receive information.  • Designed User Interface (UI) of Web forms using Layout Pages, HTML, Java Script, CSS classes and User Controls.  • Used Web Services to fetch data required and work accordingly, also used the concepts of serialization.  • Implemented client-side validations using java script, jQuery and server-side validations using .NET Validation Controls.  • Done unit testing and integration testing and testing of database, queries optimization and performance.  • Fixing bugs reported by QA and performed unit testing using Microsoft Unit Test  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) and MKS for all source code maintenance among the whole team.    Environment:  ASP.NET MVC 5.0, .NET Framework 4.5, Entity Framework, NHibernate, Visual Studio 2013, Oracle 11, Team Foundation Server(TFS), AJAX, XML, HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, AngularJS, VB Script, MS-Excel. Web Developer Illinois State Board of Education February 2017 to January 2018 IL  • Involved in full life cycle of the project from requirements gathering to transition using SCRUM Methodology.  • Performed System Design/Coding for web application using VB.NET/ASP.NET and Oracle 11g and 12c database used Toad as PL/SQL Tool.  • Supports, configures, develops, troubleshoots, and manages the overall health of ISBE's web presence and SharePoint infrastructure.  • Maintains and administers SharePoint services, including search, content hub, business intelligence and workflows.  • Develop, configures, and maintains document libraries, enterprise lists and site collections.  • Maintains operating system, SharePoint patches, service packs and cumulative updates.  • Provides, installs, and administers production, development and testing environments for web services, report servers, FTP servers, media servers and load balancers that serve the ISBE public web presence also provides support to the ticket requests.  • Developed application as 3-tier application with Presentation Layer, Business Logic Layer, and Data Services Layer using SQL Server 2012.  • Developed UI/Components/Classes/Methods/Functions for the application and Functionalities such as Data retrieval.  • Used C#.Net, ASP.NET, XML, Server controls, Validation Controls.  • Wrote quality Code in C# for the modules of the Products also used WCF for communication to access application.  • Effectively used Query a concise JavaScript Library for traversing HTML document, event handling and AJAX interactions. Used JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and AngularJS.  • Handles various web administrative duties, including configuration, server performance, application performance monitoring/tuning, log management, security scanning and traffic analysis.  • Manages SharePoint end user accounts, permissions, and access rights in accordance with privacy and security best-practices.  • Assists with software development project plans, including scope, schedule, and implementation.    Environment:  .NET Framework 4.5, Visual Studio 2013, C#, Angular 2, SCRUM, ASP.Net MVC 5, AngularJS, WCF, JavaScript, SOAP Services, PL/SQL, JSON, XML, Web Service, AJAX, CSS3, HTML5, SharePoint, SQL Server 2010, JavaScript Net Developer Icomm Technologies July 2013 to July 2015 India  • Developed Object Oriented approach for analysis and designing N-Tier architecture.  • Involved in Building the Front end and developed code based on inheritance, data binding to binding expressions, dependency properties.  • Extensively used Java script, JQuery and JQuery plugins for various client-side scenarios and for also validations.  • Experience in working with windows Azure to implement virtual machines, cloud services and virtual storage.  • Used server-side validations using validation controls.  • Created and Used Stored Procedures for the data access and tested them using Oracle 9i and SQL Server 2000 databases. This helped in making the application independent of the DB Server and provided portability.  • Extensively worked in ADO.NET for backend connectivity to manipulate and retrieve data from SQL Server db.  • Implemented appropriate error handlers for Run Time and Design Time Errors using C#.NET.  • Developed and Consumed REST Web Services to communicate with third party systems and implemented Security Authentication  • Utilized ADO.Net Data Objects such as Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter, for consistent access to SQL Data sources.  • Create and enhance Win Forms Web Pages client-side scripts views using MVC JavaScript technologies and stored procedures database tables with Oracle 11g as DB using TOAD as PL/SQL tool.  • Used Reactive Forms Module to implement Reactive Forms using Form Group, Form Control and Validators services to display, save, and edit trust account information in Angular 2.  • Involved in performance tuning of the complex queries in the database.  • Implementation of SQL Stored Procedures using SQL Server for data manipulation.  • Worked on XML for reading and writing data to XML Documents.  • Used Visual Source Safe as Source Code Repository for the entire application  • Generated and enhanced various Internal Reports using SQL Server Reporting Services.    Environment: ASP.NET MVC 5.1, Visual Studio 2010, Entity Framework, ADO.NET, MVC 5, LINQ, Web services, XML, HTML, Java Script, JQuery, SQL Server 2010, Oracle 9i, Angular 2, AJAX, Visual source Safe, SQL Server Management Studio. Net Developer Axis Bank - IN August 2012 to June 2013 India  • Responsible for enhancing, developing and maintaining product.  • Extensively used JQuery a concise JavaScript Library for traversing HTML document, event handling and AJAX interactions.  • Written client-side validation scripts in JavaScript language and extensively used JQuery.  • Involved in designing the database. Created and updated the tables using complex queries and joins.  • Managed all source files for a project using Team Foundation source (TFS) control.  • Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to attain uniformity of all web pages.  Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2008, Netfrmawork3.5, Asp.net, C#, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL Server, Windows2003 server, IIS6 and Microsoft Visual Studio Education M.S in Computer Science University of Illinois - Springfield, IL Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University Skills .NET (4 years), AJAX (4 years), ASP (4 years), ASP.NET (4 years), HTML (4 years), WPF, Angular, C#, WCF, MVC Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages C#.Net, C++, C  Server-Side Technology ASP.Net, WCF, ADO.NET, MVC  Framework Dot Net 4.5, ASP.Net MVC 5.1  Server Windows 2008 Server R2, IIS 7.5, SQL Server  Web Technology ASP.Net, HTML, CSS, XML, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS and JavaScript  Databases SQL 2005/2008  Development Tolls Microsoft Visual Studio, Eclipse  Versioning Tool Team Foundation Server(TFS), SVN, Visual Source Safe  Operating Systems Windows