Software Support Engineer Software Support Engineer Software Support Engineer Durham, NC Current Information Science Graduate Student looking for data analyst position. Work Experience Software Support Engineer CODEASITE - Durham, NC October 2017 to August 2018 Technical languages: SQL, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Java and PHP  Frameworks: jQuery, SPServices, Angular, and Node.js  Tools and Technologies: IIS, VMWare, VirtualBox, Remote Desktop, Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, Navicat, XAMPP, and wampserver    CODEASITE / Software Support Engineer, Raleigh, NC  Support Lead 10/2017 - 08/2018  Recruited to this opportunity to provide technical support for various web applications including mytennisgroup, ABPP, and internal SharePoint intranet sites. Clients include Data analyst, System Administrators, project managers, and other IT support personnel. Assist the company with various bug fixes, minor feature additions, Application training, and Technical Documentation.    Highlights:  ? Investigated issues with php application and MySQL database  ? Created bug fixes for php applications.  ? Created Minor Features for php applications.  ? Created SQL scripts for migrating data from one table to another  ? Created SharePoint Intranets for multiple users  ? Conducted Integrated and Performance A/B Testing  ? Trained Users on SharePoint Applications  ? Configured Created domain on web server and added to VM's DNS for SharePoint deployment  ? Configured IIS for SharePoint production.  ? Deployed SharePoint on premise Web applications to IIS on company's VM Web server.  ? Created Selenium Scripts in Java for Front End testing  ? Created PHP script that searched MySQL database for specific items based on the end user's input. Student DATABASE SYSTEMS/School May 2018 to July 2018 Highlights:  ? Created Multidimensional Database Models using the STAR and later the Snowflake Method.  ? Created Basic PHP programs to display items in a database  ? Installed and configured LAMP stack using bitnami's XAMPP software  ? Created Pivot tables using Excel  ? Created basic databases, tables, table definitions, and data using the SQL CommandLine. Student ADVANCED DATABASE SYSTEMS/School May 2018 to July 2018 Highlights:    ? Created LAMP Stack application that stored information from a form and sent email notifications out to a static email  ? Created Entity-Relationship and Enhanced Entity-Relationship database designs  ? Created XML schemas to upload to MySQL Technical Support II LEXISNEXIS - Raleigh, NC April 2016 to October 2017 LEXISNEXIS (LAW Prediscovery) / Technical Support II, Raleigh, NC  Tier 2 Support 04/2016 - 10/2017    Recruited to this opportunity to provide technical support for LAW Prediscovery, EDA Desktop, and EDA Web. Clients include Data analyst, System Administrators, Database Administrators, and other legal support personnel. Assist users with deployment of EDA Websites, creating and reviewing databases, and producing ad hoc feature request.    Highlights:  ? Created and edited commands in VBscript for the company's in-house desktop application.  ? Created and edited SQL scripts for client resolution.  ? Installed and configured Microsoft SQL server.  ? Used MS SQL Performance Tuning to troubleshoot SQL Server issues that affected the LAW Prediscovery Application  ? Configured IIS on both physical machines and VM's for deployment of the company's in-house web application.  ? Created and edited JavaScript/jQuery scripts for the company's in-house web application.  ? Edited ASPX/HTML files for the company's in-house web application.  ? Created MS SQL Triggers for users, that stored application data every time a table was added or modified  ? Created .bat files (ms-dos) for automation of common task (ex: clearing certain temp folders, writing msi logs to a text file etc..). Web Designer Freelance TURNER TECHNOLOGIES February 2017 to March 2017 Contracted by the client to redesign the company's website and deploy it on the WIX platform  ? Responsible for the re-designing of the website including adding/removing sections, creating images, and content (text) creation.  ? Oversaw the updates done to the website as well as quarterly maintenance. Web Developer Freelance INDEPENDENT LIVING FOUNDATION January 2017 to March 2017 Contracted by the client to create and deploy the company's website.    Highlights:  ? Responsible for all stages of Web site creations for clientele, from initial design and architecture to development, deployment, and management of Web sites.  ? Analyze marketing data and work with clients to ensure optimal experience for end users.  ? Creating banners, logos and re-branding social media to drive attention to Web site.    FORMAL EXPERIENCE _ Education MLIS in Information Science NORTH CAROLINA CENTRAL UNIVERSITY 2019 BA in Political Science NORTH CAROLINA CENTRAL UNIVERSITY 2013 Skills JAVASCRIPT (2 years), NODE.JS (Less than 1 year), DEPLOYMENT (2 years), JAVA (Less than 1 year), jQuery (2 years), Php (1 year), MYSQL, Git, CSS Additional Information IT expertise: including Web development with JavaScript, CMS Maintenance and Design, Web Deployment, and Networking. Four years combined experience in the IT field. Three years combined experience working with JavaScript and frameworks such as JQuery, Angular, and Node.js. One year working with Java and Selenium.    Core Competencies:  ? Software Support  ? Software and Hardware Management  ? Training Documentation  ? Software Development