Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - BJSS Jersey City, NJ Work Experience Software Engineer BJSS (Thomson Reuters) - New York, NY May 2019 to Present • Integrated new bank clients to Thomson Reuters Foreign Exchange Relationship trading platform.  • Built, verified, production deployed Java core architecture microservices.  • Optimized time-to-market through Junit and Cucumber tests.  • Performed assessments of technical controls including data reconciliations, regulatory compliance reporting, data  validation and adherence to business requirements and industry best practices. Software Engineer (Android/iOS) DASH LABS, INC - New York, NY May 2018 to March 2019 • Software engineer for Dash's connected car platform which is a hardware / software telematics product.  • Performed Java 8 development on Dash's Android / iOS platforms, including data management using AWS as well  as vehicle integration.  • Worked on Dash's Android application UI components. Including work on transitions, animations and other user  interaction feedback using the Android Support Library and custom views. Additionally, worked to update the UI to the latest material design principles for Android Pie.  • Developed a Bluetooth / BLE chat application to assist with development on Bluetooth enabled OBD devices. Web/iOS Developer WREVEL, INC - New York, NY January 2017 to July 2017 • Redesigned the existing MVC code modules of the Company website (http://wrevel.com).  • Optimized MySQL data retrieval procedures by rewriting PHP code, which reduced run-time significantly. Web Developer, Dept. of Computer Science and Dept. of English UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA - Grand Forks, ND June 2014 to June 2016 Built a mobile-friendly website and developed a search engine for the University Writers Conference video transcript  collection (http://csgrid.org/csg/writers_conference/).    Research Assistant/Data Analyst, Dept. of Pathology, ND INBRE Bioinformatics Core  • Collected and organized relevant aerosol optical thickness data from NASA and used R to analyze the data and to develop a correlation between aerosol density and natural gas production in North Dakota. Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science New York University - New York, NY 2018 BS in Computer Science University Of North Dakota - Grand Forks, ND 2016 Skills Java (2 years), Git, Android, HTML 5, Javascript, MYSQL, Python, PHP