Senior Software Developer Senior Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Capital One Vienna, VA An exceptionally driven, result-oriented professional with over six years of experience in software  development in various functional domains: Healthcare, Financial, E-commerce and Educational  Industries using Java, J2EE technologies, Microservices, Apache Spark, Apache Kafka, Angular  v.2+ and Typescript.  - Adept in end-to-end development of software products from Requirement Analysis to System Study,  Designing, Coding, Testing (TDD), Documentation and Implementation (SDLC) utilizing proven  functional and technical skills.  - Strong problem solving and technical skillset coupled with confidence in decision making, enabling  effective solutions and leading to high customer satisfaction. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Capital One - McLean, VA October 2018 to Present Description: CapitalOne Financial Corporation is a bank holding company specializing in credit cards, auto loans, banking and savings accounts.  Responsibilities    ? Worked at a senior level within the Customer Resiliency department of CapitalOne Card Services on platform Contact Strategy Management (CSM)  ? Led the development effort to reduce and rewrite a core service using clustered computing, reducing  service runtime from 15+ hours to 90 minutes  ? Developed applications using Java Spark and Spark-SQL/Streaming for fast and efficient Big Data  transformation and processing  ? Worked extensively with Spark Core, Spark Streaming and Spark SQL modules  ? Developed UDFs in Java Spark for complex transformations and streamlined data processing  ? Deployed applications within an AWS EMR cluster, ensuring proficient stress testing and performance tuning of the application workers and memory.  ? Routinely deployed application enhancements and directly managed Production releases  ? Integrated a Spring Boot microservice to produce and stream Kafka messages within the core Spark  application  ? Built real time data pipelines by developing Spark streaming applications for Kafka producers and Kafka consuming.  ? Modernized various communication channels for contacting delinquent customers through Phone  Dialing (manual & auto), Letter, Email and SMS using Spring Boot and microservices principles.  ? Developed RESTful APIs using the Feign Framework  ? Created measured statistics and analytics using a Splunk Dashboard to monitor real-time data flow  ? Integrated with PagerDuty to ensure adequate incident response    Technologies: Java 8, Microservices, Spring Boot, PostgreSQL, Apache Kafka, Apache Spark, RESTful  Web Services, OAuth, AWS EMR, AWS S3, AWS Lambda, AWS RDS, Feign Framework, Splunk Full Stack Developer, Inno 360 Inc - East Brunswick, NJ November 2017 to September 2018 Description: Inno-360 is a technology company offering innovation and product development  teams of the world's most innovative companies an award-winning SaaS platform that utilizes powerful  cognitive analytics (powered by IBM Watson) and intuitive visualizations to investigate rich content. I  worked with a team to build an application which enables a user to data mine vast amounts of content  using a variety of visualization tools, eliminating the need to look at every document.    Responsibilities  ? Developed RESTful API's using Spring Boot to serve the UI with required JSON data output to UI  and data is subscribed by the Angular HTTP requests.    ? Developed Controllers, Services & DAO layers to interact with data layer and developed Entity  classes based on the table structure.  ? Implemented Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding  more user experience to make it more dynamic by using Angular 2.  ? Implemented data Visualizations using High chats, High Maps and D3.js.  ? Used Selectors, Events and Dom Manipulation using components in Angular 2 for updating content  on DOM nodes.  ? Used ngrx in the angular to get the data from rest api and to manipulate them.  ? Used Swagger Framework to implement REST API.  ? Used GitHub to maintain the versions of the source code of the project.  ? Provided Clarification to a functional requirement to the team for any defect raised.    Technologies: Angular 2/4, TypeScript, SASS Java Spring MVC, High charts, D3.JS, REST API, REST  services, Jasmine, Karma, Visual Studio Code, Spring Tool Suite, Apache Solr. Angular UI Developer Orbit Health Care - East Brunswick, NJ August 2016 to October 2017 Description: Orbit Healthcare is software developing, which provides advanced technology software  solutions in the healthcare domain. Here I work with the team to develop the application that improve  information flow between Patients, Healthcare Providers, Insurance Providers and Billing Providers to address the critical needs and reduce complexities.    Responsibilities  ? Developed the Model/View using Angular 2/4.  ? Responsible for Creation of TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's  using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  ? Developed the Rest controller and provide service to the controller to execute the Rest Services  and providing JSON data to the Angular application.  ? Created tasks for updating tsconfig tracked based on tslinting, and compiling Typescript files  ? Involved in developing templates using HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Involved in writing typescript for the component's communication in the application.  ? Implemented RESTful web services using HTTP Client.  ? Implemented unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.  ? Provided Clarification to a functional requirement to the team for any defect raised.    Technologies: Angular 2, TypeScript, Node JS, Firebase, REST API, REST services, Jasmine, Karma, Visual Studio Code. Systems Engineer Infosys Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2014 to December 2015 India    Description: Infosys Limited is an Indian multinational corporation that provides business  consulting, information technology and outsourcing services. Here the client is Medtronic and the project is an e-commerce web application to market their devices across the world.    Responsibilities  ? Understanding and analyzing the Client Requirements with existing flow and functionalities.  ? Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validations within the forms.  ? Involved construction of JSP's referring to the prototype shared by Client using styles and css  provided by them.  ? Developing the Java bean Classes and configure them in XML files.  ? Implemented the data access layer using Hibernate persistence framework through Hybris Suite.  ? Building Restful Web Services Using Spring Restful services.  ? Developed the enterprise application by integrating Spring/Hibernate Frameworks.  ? Used spring framework to implement the MVC design pattern for implementing the business logic  of the application.  ? MySQL database has been used in the storage section. Having responsibilities to create lots of SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers.  ? Used SVN as a version controller. Implemented Log4J to trace logs and to track information.  ? Followed test driven design (TDD) technique and worked on Pair programming.    Technologies: JDK1.7, Spring, Eclipse, Apache Web server, Tomcat, MySQL, Spring Hibernate, Git, Maven, Log4J, Junit, Mockito, Postman, Hybris. Web Developer Mayukh Soft solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to August 2014 India    Description: This application enables clients to access, review and update Insurance coverage's  online. The website functionality was extended by providing the customers to Login and perform online  transactions like paying bills online and updating their insurance policy.    Responsibilities  ? Built the Responsive UI screen for creating new customer process, create bill to and ship to screens, customer search results page, and customer dashboard page using Bootstrap.  ? Creating dynamic web pages using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript.  ? Developed Java J2EE application using spring MVC and Hibernate using JDBC driver.  ? Used Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) to develop code for obtaining bean  references in spring framework using annotations.  ? Used ANT and Jenkins for Build process and continuous integration. Onshore/Offshore  coordination.  ? Helping the QA team in integration testing.  ? Fixing QA defect for the application.  ? Deployment of the application to the test and production environment.    Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, REST API JAX-RS, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Log4J, ANT, Java, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, Spring WS, JAX-RS, Spring web services, WebLogic, Junit, Eclipse, JSP. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO December 2017 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jboss, Visual studio, Apache spark, Cucumber, Git, Hadoop, Typescript, Jenkins, Scripting, Html5, Mvc, Sass, PostgresSQL, SQL, Angular, MicroServices, Apache Kafka, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Amazon Web Services, AWS S3, AWS EC2, AWS EMR, AWS RDS Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bssundarkumar/ Additional Information ## Technical Skills    Core Skills Java 8, J2EE  Frameworks Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Apache Spark, Apache Kafka, Jax-Rs  AWS Proficiencies S3, EMR, EC2, ECS, Lambda, SNS, CloudWatch, RDS  Databases PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQL, MySQL, Db2, H2  Hadoop/Big Data Apache Spark, Apache Kafka  Scripting Languages Typescript, Advanced JS, D3 Js, Highcharts Js, Highmaps Js  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, Sass, Java Script, Angular 2/4/5, Rxjs, vRESTful Web Services  Web Servers WEBLOGIC, Websphere, Jboss, Apache Tomcat  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall, Test Driven Development  Tools Build/Automation: Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Docker, Artifactory  Logging: log4j  Version Control: Git, Subversion  Testing: Junit, Jasmine, Karma, Cucumber, Sonar  Tracking: JIRA  Monitoring: Splunk, CloudWatch, PagerDuty  IDEs Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite, Visual Studio  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows