Admin Website Admin Website Admin Website - Web Developer @CaliRX LLC Los Angeles, CA Experienced Software and Information Systems Professional with 4 years of IT experience in developing web-based applications using various technologies like ASP.NET with C#, MVC Framework, WebAPI, Microsoft SQL Server, LINQ, Entity Framework, HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Azure and Android Development.  • Expertise in developing mobile apps using Android Studio and React Native.  • Can also create IOS App and Android App using Phone gap.  • Strong knowledge of SEO and used Git for source control. Used Bitbucket and GitHub in projects.  • Experience in Classic ASP and VBScript.  • Hands on experience with developing Web applications, Windows Forms application, Database Procedures & Triggers, Web Services.  • Good experience in various relational database designs, writing complex SQL and PL/SQL and strong data analysis skill. Ability to co-ordinate and work with team members on the application development projects.  • Quick Learner, Team player and always up for new challenges. Work Experience Admin Website Web Developer @CaliRX LLC - Burbank, CA January 2018 to Present Burbank-LA Jan'18 - Present  www.crxdrive.com    The client is basically a startup and they are delivering medicines to the patients. The Website is completely built using Asp.net C#, MVC Framework, SQL Server, Restful Webservice, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery. And the App is built using Android Studio in an android environment. Basically, the Website works like an Uber for a driver which will help in delivering the medicines to the patients. The Website is responsible for Adding/Updating New Product, maintains store inventory, displaying live Driver's locations, maintaining driver's status, making new orders, assign orders to drivers which are nearby to customer location, maintains car inventory, etc. The customer website is responsible for making new orders for medicines so that driver can deliver to them. The android usually does the same as the website except making new product. They have the following websites and app:  1. Admin Website  2. Customer Website  3. Admin Android App  4. Driver's Android App    Tools: ASP.NET, C#, MVC, HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery, Git, MS SQL Server with Stored Procedures-triggers-Pivots. Web Developer @Naked Zebra JJ Apparel - Downtown, CA, US October 2016 to January 2018 http://www.nz-backoffice.com  https://www.naked-zebra.com  https://wholesale.naked-zebra.com    The client is very popular for selling fashion products like clothing, handbag, cosmetics and much more. It's a 50+ million dollar evaluated company. They have 3 main websites: admin site, shopping site and wholesale shopping site. Implemented MVC framework to reduce the complexity and to get full control over the behavior of the application. Used LINQ to Entities, LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML and LINQ to Objects for retrieving the data proficiently.  I have been responsible for maintaining all these websites and adding new features in them. I have worked on all their reporting features for showing invoiced products, pre-item listings, monthly-yearly sales report, and employee evaluation report. I also worked on the internal RFID system and build a windows form application for logging employee's arrival-departure logs which helps in running their payroll system. Worked on the wholesale and product shopping sites and converted it into responsive sites.  1. Worked on the RFID payroll system.  2. Worked on converting their website from ASP to ASP.NET MVC.  3. Extensively worked on writing Stored Procs and used Pivot Tables  4. Created Responsive website to be used online as well as on the App  5. Worked on the company's production and admin websites  6. Created Native Android App for them to use in 4 stores in Los Angeles.    Tools: ASP.NET, C#, MVC, LINQ, Entity Framework, HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Git, Classic ASP, VBScript, MS SQL Server with Stored Procedures-triggers-Pivots and SEO Software Developer @Table Dynamics, Glendale-CA November 2015 to September 2016 http://www.tabledynamics.com  http://www.electricmirror.com  http://www.bridgenetone.com    It's a platform for creating menus for different restaurants. It's a tool which will replace the traditional paper menu with digital menu. Menus will be easily customizable and accessible to the customers on restaurant android devices or on customer's own device. It's completely built on ASP.NET, C#, MVC, Entity Framework, LINQ, HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery and Bootstrap. I was involved in all the 3 tiers of the development here. I work at the Front-end UI side using HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, jQuery, ASP.NET MVC. I also develop web services and Web Api where we put in all the business logic. I also work in the database where I write queries, stored procedures. I have exposure to all the software development side. We also developed the Android app for Table Dynamics so that different client can use the same app which can be easily customized.  1. Created menu-editor site for the clients to create their own menus  2. Created TD Mina site for the Restaurant Menu management.  3. Created Responsive website to be used online as well as on the App  4. Worked on the company's production website.  5. I was involved in testing also where we used MVC Unit Testing Feature and Debugging the ASP.Net MVC Code.    Tools: ASP.NET, C#, MVC, LINQ, Entity Framework, HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery, Bootstrap, Git and Photoshop Education Master's Skills Visual studio, Api, C#, Git, Html Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/lisha-gandhi-5a06a765 http://www.nz-backoffice.com http://@CaliRX http://@CaliRX http://@CaliRX Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS    Environment Windows 7/8/10, Android, IOS App (Phone gap), Linux (Basics)  Programming C#, Java, VBScript  Technologies ASP.NET, MVC, Web Services - Restful and SOAP, Web API, Classic ASP, AZURE, LINQ  Database MS SQL Server 2016-2017  Web Tools HTML 5, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, CSS3, AngularJS.  Development Tools Visual Studio 2018, Android Development Toolkit (ADT)  Configuration Tools TFS-Git, GitHub    WEBSITES  http://www.nz-backoffice.com  https://www.naked-zebra.com  https://wholesale.naked-zebra.com  http://www.tabledynamics.com  http://www.electricmirror.com