Specialist, Information Management Specialist, Information Management Specialist, Information Management - CANON U.S.A., INC Coram, NY Work Experience Specialist, Information Management CANON U.S.A., INC - Melville, NY September 2017 to Present • Lead three-member team, ensuring alignment with SharePoint project and operational goals; provide training and mentoring for continual performance improvements.  • Gather information from stakeholders to prepare Business Requirements Documents; track progress against timelines, milestones, and budgets and make necessary adjustments.  • Perform quality assurance and user experience (QA/UX) testing and approve all new content prior to deployment.  • Monitor Web site performance, track key metrics, and review Web analytics, customer satisfaction rates, and OpinionLab feedback reports; identify trends and isolate issues. Product Owner Canon USA - Stony Brook, NY May 2016 to September 2017 Selected accomplishments include  ? Managed the How-To Video program for Service & Support team at Canon USA.  ? Analyzed customer survey data to identify Customer Satisfaction (CSAT) improvement opportunities.  ? Programmed ASFOnline site to share data with Canon Latina America and Canon USA.  ? Key liaison with management, legal, enterprise technology, application development, and business areas to address and resolve service and performance issues.  ? Regularly created reports for executive management to summarize progress and highlight issues for key strategic projects  ? Assisted in creating a project onboarding process and lead several process improvement initiatives  SOFTHEON, Stony Brook, NY  Product Owner May 2016 - September 2017  • Trained staff members to create and present technical webinars to educate and inform clients of projected updates.  • Presented webinars to internal and external clients. Responsible for maintenance and enhancement of assigned product.  • Created and prioritized user stories. Evaluated employee performance, set goals, and developed improvement plans.  • Developed strong client relationships Junior Web Developer The PRMG - Patchogue, NY March 2014 to May 2015 Utilized programming languages to create websites, email marketing campaigns, and newsletters. Designed and coded new websites. Input website information. Education Master of Business Administration in Finance in Business MOLLY COLLEGE - Rockville Centre, NY December 2016 Bachelor of Science in Mathematics and Computer Science in Studio Art and Fine Arts ST. JOSEPH'S COLLEGE - Patchogue, NY May 2015