FREELANCE WEB DEVELOPER FREELANCE <span class="hl">WEB</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> FREELANCE WEB DEVELOPER - POPE Enterprises, LLC Portland, OR Work Experience FREELANCE WEB DEVELOPER POPE Enterprises, LLC - Portland, OR 2019 to Present Spearhead planning and deployment of websites and web applications. Create, maintain, and enhance websites including  development and management of content. Translate requirement specifications into user interface. Oversee front and back-end facets of application development through implementation of database design fundamentals. Interface with  clients ensuring satisfaction. Provide technical assistance and ensure compatibility across dynamic browsers and platforms.  Key Accomplishments:  • Used React.js with Rails API back-end to develop an app allowing users to join poker tournaments and leave  comments. Applied async actions to retrieve data from database.  • Developed full-stack responsive CrossFit Dismantle App using React.js frontend with a Ruby on Rails and PostgresQL  database, deployed with Heroku. Styled App with CSS3, react-bootstrap, bootstrap, fontawesome. Built routes with react-router and react-router-dom. DRIVER UBER/LYFT - Portland, OR 2016 to Present Provide safe, reliable, and dependable transportation for clients. Maintain vehicle condition and maintenance ensuring  full operability. Track and record mileage, manage routes utilizing GPS navigation, and ensure client satisfaction.  Key Accomplishments:  • Recognized for high-quality customer service, consistently earned rating of 4.96/5.0. ROUTE SALES REPRESENTATIVE ARAMARK - Portland, OR 2015 to 2018 Primary point of contact for accounts. Established and maintained business relationships with clients. Conducted in-depth  research to isolate new leads. Analyzed and synthesized data to ensure achievement of rigorous sales goals. Promptly  resolved complex client issues to ensure satisfaction and retention. Maintained knowledge services, products, pricing, and policies to make customized recommendations. Prepared service agreements and performed account maintenance for  multiple accounts. Held accountability for inventory, ensured accuracy of product, and mapped routes for on-time  delivery.  Key Accomplishments:  • Top Performer, achieved average retention rate of 97.5%.  • Leveraged strong business acumen to acquire new accounts, commended by executive management for top sales  growth for 3 consecutive months. Education Accounting MT. HOOD COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Troutdale, OR Flatiron School Skills API, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, REDUX, MIDDLEWARE, Javascript, Front End, HTML5, Jquery Links http://linkedin.com/in/michael-pope00 http://www.michaelpopedev.com