Quality Assurance Technician Quality Assurance Technician Freeport, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Quality Assurance Technician Berner Food & Beverage - Afolkey, IL March 2019 to Present Calibrate and use machinery to test the food safety of product. Assure that all CCPs in production are recording and operating as expected. Handle product holds and release, as well as materials release. Skid Puller Snak King Corporation - Freeport, IL November 2018 to March 2019 Stack and wrap pallets of product in a fast paced working environment. Set up and tear down tape machines and assembly lines for product changeovers. Data Entry Clerk NextHome First Class - Freeport, IL May 2018 to August 2018 Enter data for and manage entries of real estate listings, conduct 3d virtual tours of properties, Capture aerial photos of properties using a drone Overnight Stocker Cub Foods, Inc - Freeport, IL May 2017 to February 2018 Stock products to shelves in a timely and efficient manner. Work as part of the team to finish our requirements on a nightly basis. Full Stack Web Developer Hydra Technologies - Freeport, IL October 2016 to March 2017 Built mobile Responsive websites with PHP, HTML5, CCS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, SQL and BootStrap; worked with Photoshop to create and manipulate images; built custom backend interfaces; built sites with WordPress, OpenCart, and a custom CMS and managed SEO on existing client sites. Full Stack Web Developer Armor Technologies - DeKalb, IL March 2016 to October 2016 Built mobile Responsive websites with PHP, HTML5, CCS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, SQL and BootStrap; worked with Photoshop to create and manipulate images; built custom backend interfaces; built sites with WordPress, OpenCart, and a custom CMS and managed SEO on existing client sites. Overnight Maintenance Associate Walmart - Freeport, IL June 2014 to September 2015 Cleaned a great many things including: floors, bathrooms, waste bins, and trash compactor. Stocked products to shelves in every department. Education High school or equivalent Skills HTML5 (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), PHP (2 years), Javascript (2 years), JQuery (2 years), SQL (2 years), Ajax (2 years), Typing, Data Entry Operator, Data-Entry, Excel, Data Entry, Word, Customer Service, Pallet Jack, Stocking, Fast learner, Microsoft Word, retail sales, Electric Pallet Jack, Quality Assurance Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Attention to Detail — Highly Proficient August 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yv1yottf1f9obztq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.