Web Developer/Designer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer Web Developer Jackson, MO Dynamic and detail-oriented Web Developer with a knack for conceptualizing and delivering elegant, user-friendly solutions effectively and efficiently. Possesses a track record of developing multiple websites that fully encompass client brands and their visions. Extensive understanding of end-to-end SDLC and web development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer/Designer DKG Concepts LLC - Jackson, MO February 2018 to Present • Web Technologies & Frameworks (HTML5, CSS3, React, Python, PHP)   • Scripts/UI (JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, BootStrap, JSON)   • Web Debug Tools (Mozilla Firebug (debugger), Chrome developer tools)   • Search Engine Optimization   • CMS (Weebly, Wix, Wordpress, Shopify)   • Versioning and other tools (Git, GitHub) Insurance Producer Kody Thompson Agency - American Family Insurance - Cape Girardeau, MO February 2015 to February 2018 •Market property, casualty, business, and life insurance along with investment options.  •Assist customers with their financial needs by asking, listening, and solving their specific financial situation.  •Conduct marketing programs with local business owners to show them products that will benefit their business.   •Make sales calls to past, present, and future customers to ensure that their financial and insurance needs are met. .  •Maintain client accounts and relations  •Licensed Life, Property, and Casualty Insurance Producer in the state of Missouri Education Management and Program Acquisition American Military University - Charles Town, WV 2013 to Present Associate in Health Science Kaplan University May 2018 Skills Customer Service, Sales, HTML (4 years), CSS (3 years), Javascript (1 year), Troubleshooting (10+ years), Computer Repair (10+ years), Account Management (3 years), Word (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Mac OS X (3 years), Internet Research (10+ years), Wordpress, HTML5, Jquery, Python, Bootstrap, Front End, Wordpress (1 year), React.JS (Less than 1 year), PHP Links http://www.dkgconceptsllc.com Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E4 Certifications/Licenses Life Insurance (Missouri) Property and Casualty License (Missouri) Google Adwords 2018 to Present MTA 98-381 Present Candidates for this exam should be able to recognize and write syntactically correct Python code, recognize data types supported by Python, and be able to recognize and write Python code that will logically solve a given problem.    Candidates are expected to have had, at a minimum, instruction and/or hands-on experience of approximately 100 hours with the Python programming language, be familiar with its features and capabilities, and understand how to write, debug, and maintain well-formed, well documented Python code. MTA 98-383 2019 Candidates for this exam should be able to recognize and write syntactically correct HTML and CSS, structure data using HTML elements, and create and apply styles using CSS.    Candidates are expected to have at least 100 hours of instruction or hands-on experience with HTML and CSS, be familiar with their features and capabilities, and understand how to write, debug, and maintain well-formed HTML and CSS code. Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/p2zivor1vxmyqxl8 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Groups Adobe Creative Advisor Present