Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - HCA Health Care Nashville, TN • 6+ years of experience as a User Interface developer using Java script frameworks for developing single page and responsive web applications using Angular, ReactJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript/ES6.  • 4+ Years of experience in Angular 1.x, ReactJS, CSS3, HTML5 for developing MVC/MVVC applications.  • 2+ Years of experience in developing enterprise level applications using the ReactJS/Node.js  • Good experience in SQL, MySQL and NoSQL database concepts.  • Hands on Experience in Applications using MVC, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, and XML.  • Experience in React JS framework to develop the SPA.  • Experience in using React JS Components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux.  • Strong Knowledge in writing Angular 2/4 code for developing Single page applications (SPA), used several in built language core directives, expressions and modules.  • Working experience with Angular 2, creating custom directives, decorators, and services to interface with both restful and legacy network services also DOM applications.  • Extensive experience on working with various CSS/CSS3 features like CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text shadows, CSS box model, CSS table, Pseudo classes/elements and CSS behaviors.  • Hands on Experience in the development of web applications by using JavaScript/ES6 Features.  • Experience with Angular Services, Directives, Controllers, Forms and its Validations.  • Good understanding of Browser Object Model and Document Object Model functions.  • Experience with full software development life cycle, object-oriented programming and agile methodologies.  • Experience in Git version control & BitBucket.  • Having development experience with using complete SDLC and Scrum processes.  • Solid working experience in various IDE's: Visual Studio code, Sublime Text.  • Experience in Graphic and User Experience Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform.  • Having development experience with using complete SDLC and Scrum processes.  • Comfortable working with Python/Django Framework in the design of web applications  • Extensive analytical, logical and programming skills, Self-Motivated and Team Player.  • Ability to grasp modern technologies and to apply them to build applications  • Effective communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to meet project deadlines in a fast-paced environment.  • Good Knowledge in Programing Languages Such as C and Python.  • Knowledge on using Node modules, npm packages updating the versions using npm.  • Good Experience in understanding the flow of JIRA tickets.  • Involved in code reviews as well as in develop by using in both GIT and STASH.  • Experience in writing unit testing by using framework such as Jasmine, Karma.  • Experience in writing test case's and executing them with JEST and Enzyme.  • Experience working on software methodologies such as Agile/Scrum, Test Driven Development (TDD).    Productivity Traits:  • Adaptable, Quick, Flexible, Multitasking, Determined & Team Player  • Capable of quickly learning and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team.  • Possess strong written and oral communication skills. Work Experience Web Developer HCA Health Care - Nashville, TN March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Organized responsive pages using HTML5, CSS and accountable for making single-page and multi-page applications with React.js/Redux, Node.js/Express.js, MongoDB and REST API.  • Utilized React-Router module to turn the application into Single Page Application by implement routing with Route, Link, and Switch.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Maintained States in the Stores and dispatched the Actions using Redux and by using Redux-Thunk as a middleware to handle asynchronous events.  • Used Express.js with MongoDB by using Mongoose to write CRUD operations for retrieving and updating data.  • Configured Web pack to execute linters, magnifiers, pre/post-processors, tests, transpires etc. based on build target.  • Architected and implement RestAPI interfaces using JavaScript and NodeJS by incorporating between Server side to Client Side  • Used Promises and Event emitter in Node.js to avoid callbacks and more readable code.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues.  • Writing and testing of required individual components using Jest/Enzyme.  • Have work exposure on Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) tools such as Jenkins.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, React.js, Redux, React-Native, Node.js/Express.js, Webpack, MongoDB/Mongoose, REST API, Postman, Jest/Enzyme, JIRA, GIT, Visual Studio Code and Jenkins. Web Developer Verizon Communications - Dallas, TX May 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS and HTML.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app by implementing React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable).  • Working with React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Working with Redux library for updating and maintaining the state by using middleware.  • Worked with Node.js for creation of robust and secure REST APIs.  • Extensively used HTTP methods integrating front-end to the back-end.  • Used AngularJS as a framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) by utilizing AngularJS UI-Route for managing the State Transition and URL route.  • Worked Extensively with Angular CLI for creating components, Services, pipes, Directives, Pipes.  • Working in Cross-functional team to develop timely changes and meet the design requirements.  • Experience and developed test cases for controllers and services using Jasmine/Karma.  • Experience in writing and executing test cases with Jest/Enzyme.  Environment:  HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap 3, JavaScript, Node.js/Express.js, JSON, ReactJS, Redux, AngularJS, Jasmine/Karma, Jest/Enzyme, npm (Node Package Manager), Sublime, Restful APIs, GIT, Eclipse, Maven, Apache Tomcat, Putty, Chrome developer tools. Web Developer Fisher Investments - San Jose, CA January 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, Angular.js & JavaScript.  • Developer responsive interface using Bootstrap and SASS for CSS.  • Developing and designing SPA user interfaces in Angular.js.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • Developed AJAX based web-based UI framework by utilizing jQuery library.  • Coded in AngularJS MVC framework to build Web application for the internal use of the organization.  • Made design recommendations towards the development of new code or re-use services, modules and components in order to reduce development time and resource.  • Maintained quality and consistency by developing and implementing style guidelines.  Environment:  Angular JS, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript/Typescript, Ajax. JSON, GIT. Web Developer Mag Web Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2012 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from gathering user requirements to analysis, design, development, testing, deployment and production support.  • Designed the front-end applications UI web pages using web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, and Bootstrap by provided responsive layout for application using CSS media queries.  • Worked on advanced properties like CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements etc.  • Used jQuery, JavaScript to present data to users in a user-friendly environment and by using them for client-side validation.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit the business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Responsible for developing, editing, publishing and managing content on the external Web pages and internal layouts.  • Fixed bugs using browser-based debugging tools and provided support services for the application.  Environment:  HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, JSON, Web Services. Education Master's in Science in Computer Science International Technological University Bachelor's in Technology in Computer Science and Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Visual studio, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Reactjs, Redux, Json, Python, Angularjs, Eclipse, Java, jquery, Mongodb, Linux, Mysql, Pl/sql, Sql, Macos, HTML, CSS3 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap 3, jQuery, JSON  JavaScript Libraries AngularJS / ReactJS /Redux  Server Side Node.js, Express.js  Task runners Gulp.js  IDE's and Tools Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Atom  Programming Languages JavaScript, CSS, Python, Java  Debugging Tools Chrome Developer Tools  Databases PL/SQL, MySQL, MongoDB  Operating Systems Windows, Linux & MacOS  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall & SCRUM