Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer West Chicago, IL Work Experience Web Developer CompuSystems Inc - Downers Grove, IL February 2013 to April 2019 • Utilized responsive design to create mobile-first websites with the help of Bootstrap.  • Met with clients to gather, analyze and document show requirements, and explore potential solutions in accordance with CompuSystems' existing processes and best practices.  • Developed and maintained websites and online applications per client specifications. With a defined work  process with strict quality control and testing procedures.  • Worked with show team members to find solutions for client requests, and then wrote CSS3, HTML5, Javascript, and jQuery code implementing solutions for those client requests.  • Provided technical customer service, client updates, and general website maintenance for websites assigned to me.  • Troubleshooting of situations that may affect CompuSystems' ability to provide superior service to clients if a registration site experiences excessive problems.  • Setup various web service configurations receiving and sending information such as member/membership  information for various clients, payment processing with VeriSign and PayPal, event housing through Travel  Planners and OnPeak web partners, and social media registration tracking through InGo.  • Followed CSI defined show processes, testing rules, and standards for all sites I was responsible for maintaining.  • Developed up to intermediate level Javascript/jQuery code for business rules that required custom functionality  to meet the client needs.  • Participated in continual process improvements of applications and development of new processes and applications. Education Bachelor Degree in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Addison, IL August 2009 to 2013 Skills API, Git, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, XML, HTML5, JAVA, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, DREAMWEAVER, ORACLE, SQL Links https://robert-walker-portfolio-2019.herokuapp.com/