Web Developer/Data Analyst <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Data Analyst Web Developer/Data Analyst - MindSpec, VA Ellicott City, MD * 9+ years of experience as a Full Stack developer and design User Interactive web applications using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, ReactJS, Angular JS, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, PHP, Python.  * Solid experience in web application development on LAMP, XAMP and WAMP stack using Linux/Windows, Apache Server, MySQL, JSON, AJAX and PHP.  * Extensive experience in various Java/J2EE technologies including Core Java, J2EE (EJB, Servlets, JSP, JDBC), Spring, Hibernate, JUnit  * Solid understanding of MVC design pattern of PHP with hands-on experience on frameworks such as Laravel, Zend, Code Ignitor.  * Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA.  * Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  * Experience in Java IDE tools like Eclipse.  * Experience using Web/Application Servers like Apache Tomcat and Oracle Application Server.  * Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  * Good knowledge on Content Management Systems like WordPress and Joomla.  * Designing and applying appropriate project management standards for incorporation  * Managing the production of the required deliverables  * Planning and monitoring the project  * Adopting any delegation and use of project assurance roles within agreed reporting structures  * Preparing and maintaining project, stage and exception plans as required  * Managing project risks, including the development of contingency plans  * Worked with relational databases like MySQL and non-relational databases like MongoDB  * Good knowledge of SQL and experienced in building complex queries.  * Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery, experience in making webpage cross browser compatible.  * Excellent experience and Knowledge in CSS  * Expertise in developing and updating a web page quickly and effectively using JavaScript.  * Strong JavaScript & jQuery skills - able to write unobtrusive custom code as well as implement existing jQuery plug-ins.  * Proficient in making AJAX calls using jQuery, native JavaScript methods and usage of JSON for faster and impulsive responses.  * Expertise in developing Single-page applications(SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like ReactJS, NodeJS and Bootstrap.  * Worked on JavaScript framework AngularJS to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  * Extensive experience in developing Node JS applications using MVC frameworks.  * Utilized AngularJS for consuming a RESTful web service using AJAX services like $http, $resource and handled cross domain requests to retrieve the required JSON data for the application.  * Experience in using Restful API web-services to provide connections to back end services and handling data using parsers with formats like JSON and XML  * Good working knowledge of Responsive Web Design(RWD) using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  * Experience in debugging and troubleshooting the existing code.  * Understanding and pleasant experience with Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD).  * Solid Understanding of RDBMS concepts and Extensive development experience using databases such as MS SQL Server, Oracle 10g/11g and tools like oracle SQL Developer. Well versed in writing SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and triggers.  * Experience with full software development lifecycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, agile methodologies, and Scrum.  * Experience in software configuration management using version controls like SVN and GIT.  * Experience in all stages of testing namely Functional testing, Performance testing and User Acceptance testing.  * Excellent experience in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards  * Performed unit testing along with integration testing Chrome Inspector to fix bugs and worked closely with QA. Knowledge of AWS cloud monitoring tools (cloud watch, cloud trail, splunk, and other application monitoring.)  * Knowledge of AWS Identity Access Management (IAM)  * Hands-on expertise in Java, C, C++.  * Ability to estimate the financial impact of various solution architecture alternative.  * Must be comfortable working in an open, highly collaborative team.  * Ability to write scripts (Bash, PHP, Python) for automation of solution resiliency validation and verification. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer/Data Analyst MindSpec, VA February 2018 to Present Description  Mindspec is a non profit organization in doing advance research on neurodevelopmental conditions. The scientist here generate lot of data based on results of their research. They have a total three websites mindspec.org, readingroom.mindspec.org and autism.mindspec.org/autdb/Welcome.do. In these websites we populate the results of the research for the other scientist to work on.    Roles and Responsibilities  * Worked extensively on Restful web-services, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Media queries for responsiveness.  * Developing User interface(UI) using technologies like HTML5, CSS3.  * The front-end used HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Angular JS 4 to build a single page web app that communicate with back-end via RESTful API.  * Used Node JS, Angular JS and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  * working on some of the features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators.  * Working in AngularJS and Responsive Web Design.  * Maintain and write queries using MySQL.  * Generate automated scripts using python to process and load the data in the DB servers.  * Implemented server-side validation in the models.  * Responsible for writing the requirement documents.  * Creating mockups based on the requirement.  * Developed the application for responsive to different screen resolutions using Bootstrap and CSS media queries.  * Used various bootstrap components like accordion, date picker, time picker, alert, buttons, modal and also react-bootstrap components.  * Thorough understanding of CSS principles with a clear ideology for managing maintainable, scalable and cross-browser code  * Working experience on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviours in CSS.  * Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Opera, Firefox, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer.  * Resolved complex issues related to browser and network performance, cross-browser and legacy IE compatibility, client-side scaling, data modeling, usability and testability  * Deep understanding and working experience in Object Oriented JavaScript programming.  * Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience React.js, Responsive design.  * Worked with HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Reactjs and ES6 for developing user interface.  * Experience in using GIT for pulling and committing the developed content from/to the GIT repository  * Good experience of debugging JavaScript, CSS3 and HTML5 code.  * Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and re-usable components.  * Involved in Understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements.  * Create application build artifacts using build tools like Maven    Environment: Java/J2EE, REST, Eclipse Java EE IDE, Maven, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, React JS, JSON, RESTful web services, MySQL, Windows, Linux, Spring, Hibernate, EJB, JSON, Junit. Web Developer John Hopkins - Baltimore, MD June 2017 to August 2017 Description  As the research groups work across the globe, HEMI need to have a web-based system which will help them to interact and collaborate research done. The people that comes under HEMI groups are subdivide into different small groups and projects consisting of researchers, students, administrative staff. This proposed new database system will help to keep track of the researchers under HEMI and enables them to upload/share/view the documents. As these documents are highly confidential, so while uploading a document user have a provision to assign permissions read/modify it. Each document is attached to different tags which enables the search functionality. The system also allows researchers to keep track of all the publications and can be accessible all the users. The system also allows users to send group messages, schedule meetings with different personnel through email.    Roles and Responsibilities  * Worked extensively on Restful web-services, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Media queries for responsiveness.  * Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labelling/naming conventions using GIT source control.  * Developing User interface (UI) using technologies like HTML5, CSS3 Object and Ajax concepts.  * The front-end use HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, React JS and Bootstrap to build a single page web app that communicate with back-end via RESTful API.  * Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router and Animations.  * Implemented react JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozella, IE , Safari and FF.  * Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  * Responsible for implementing UI mockups  * Maintain and write queries using MySQL and SQLite.  * Writing code in python using Django Framework.  * Involved in all phases of SDLC using Agile.  * Generate automated scripts using python to accomplish various tasks.  * Created template using Django framework to use it across the application.  * Developed Modules in the application using Django Module creator and customize them.  * Used database Migrations to affect the changes of the Model to Database.  * Implemented server-side validation in the models.  * Responsible for creating APIs to be consumed by other users.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, JSON, RESTful web services, MySQL, Windows, Java, J2ee. Web Developer Honeywell - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2013 to February 2016 Description  GDC is the website (https://www.mygdc.com) that will provide business jets with Flight Planning, Flight Sentinel, Flight Tracking, Filing, Weather, Datalink and International Trip services. Below are the few key features provided by GDC.  Roles and Responsibilities  * Responsible for software Development and testing phases in AGILE methodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  * Developed the presentation layers including using ReactJS, JavaScript OOP, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery and Ajax.  * Involved in Designing database and implementing the database base objects using MySQL.  * Responsible for writing triggers, procedures and views in Database.  * Used PHP unit for testing and JIRA for project management Developed Graphical User Interfaces using struts, tiles and JavaScript.  * Used JSP, JavaScript and JDBC to create web Servlets.  * Good Interactions with Quality Analyst (QA) and Business Analyst (BA) to understand client requirements and to maintain better quality of code  * Developed Simple Page Application (SPA) by using AngularJS and it is routing as parts of the whole application  * Developed Responsive Web Application using CSS Bootstrap such as navigation bars, grid system, modal dialogs, forms, button groups, carousel, pagination, and pager.  * Used Protractor for testing  * Developed business logic layer using Spring Framework and integrated Hibernate.  * Designed the system based on Spring MVC Model architecture.  * Developed complex, usable, attractive and cross-browser web interfaces that account for speed, file size, readability and accessibility  * Developed programs to port the xml data to database to make the website xml driven  * Designed mockup HTML, CSS mock-up pages to review with UX and Business units.  * Implemented responsive features in web pages with bootstrap.  * Made the application responsive for IOS and Android platforms using media queries and flexible grid layouts  * Developed UI using Node JS, HTML5, CSS 3, jQuery, JavaScript, ReactJS.  * Created RESTFUL APIs using Laravel and consumed them with ReactJS.  * Designed custom HTML directives in custom features development.  * Responsible for data management in both client and server side of an application.  * Implemented Angular $http service for remote server communications to make calls to backend services. Used Regular Expressions for information extraction and parsed using JSON.  * Used GitHub for version control.  * Used various feature of spring such as XML configuration extensions for Declarative Transaction Management, Java Generics support, Annotation Driven Dependency injection.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring, ReactJS, Bootstrap HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, Code Ignitor, JIRA, Sales Force, PHP Unit, Putty, Unix, Windows, Laravel. Web Developer Honeywell - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 to February 2015 Description  Honeywell GDFS sends email notifications to customers with flight position information whenever position report received from aircraft. This information includes 'Status' of the flight, departure and destination airports, ETA (Estimate Time of Arrival) and static map image with flight position, flight bearing, planned route and actual route.    Roles and Responsibilities  * Working extensively on design and development of User Interface, HTML, CSS and Angular JS.  * Participated in requirement gathering  * Participated in architecture design and database design  * Involved in code development and testing  * Responsible for code deployment    Environment: Perl, Python, MySQL, HTML, CSS Angular JS Web Developer Honeywell - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2014 to August 2014 Description  Honeywell GDFS provides flight plan uplink service through ACARS for the customers whose flight  planning is computed outside of GDFS. Those vendors transfer their flight plan in ICAO format to GDFS through email. This application process these emails which have flight plan information and  parse the flight plan information and prepares the format which GDFS use for flight plan uplink.    Roles and Responsibilities  * Working extensively on design and development of User Interface, HTML, CSS and Angular JS.  * Requirement gathering  * Architecture and database design  * Environment setup like GIT repository, Linux account  * Code development, testing and deployment    Environment: Perl, Python, MySQL, HTML, CSS Angular JS web Developer Jnet Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to October 2013 Description  Track IT offers a complete suite of human resource management tools. This includes employee information management, employee absence management / employee holiday management or employee leave management, recruitment management, employee performance evaluation, Ticket Management and many other HR management tools.    Roles and Responsibilities  * Working extensively on design and development of User Interface, HTML, CSS and Angular JS.  * Involved in developing the UML diagrams like Use case, class, sequence diagrams for the project  * Involved in writing code in PHP in Zend framework.  * Involved in Designing database and implementing the database base objects using MySQL.  * Responsible for writing triggers, procedures and views in Database.  * Involved in Agile process, Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  * Closely working with business users/clients to create mockups for new web applications as per their requirements.  * Developing user interactive website using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap including AJAX controls.  * Committed to the web UI / web development activities and produced navigation flows, storyboards and wireframes.  * Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful, Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  * Working with the JIRA tool for Quality Center bug tracking.  * Created outlook like feature in website using IMAP, POP3 protocols.  * Created classes to enable create different functionalities.    Environment: PHP, MySQL, windows, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, Agile Web Developer Winnou Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2009 to June 2011 Description  A unique web-based software platform that combines financial analysis tools with a large database on local business costs information of more than 170 countries and 100 cities. In this software, data is provided in the form of Location groups. Each Location group is further divide into several Location factors. If user selects some countries/cities of his choice all the Location groups that are in common to the selected countries are displayed. Then user needs to select the Location factors depending on the Location groups he selected. Once the user done with his selection of location groups and location factors, The Analysis can be viewed in tabular format with the relative score and also in Bar graphs. The financial analysis tools support firms in making their investment, restructuring and location portfolio decisions.    Roles and Responsibilities  * Responsible for creating web and website-based applications using Java Script, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3.  * Responsible for writing code in Joomla module and design custom components.  * Worked on Fusion Charts for generating the various graphs in the application.  * Involved in Designing database and implementing the database base objects using MySQL.  * Responsible for writing triggers, procedures and views in Database.  * Worked on responsive web application development using HTML.  * Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Create design documents when and as required. Perform coding, debugging and testing.  * Deployed and consumed web services based on SOAP and REST protocols Designed and implemented the UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP.  * Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, CSS and HTML. Developed websites utilizing WordPress platform.  * Developed custom web forms using PHP and JavaScript.  * Created and tested scripts using jQuery on various browsers Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Safari. Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using JQuery UI Library.  * Using Google analytics reports, optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using LESS -CSS.  * Used jQuery to make HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web page.  * Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  * Involved in Production Support and minor enhancements as per application requirements.  Environment: PHP, Joomla, Fusion charts, Ubuntu, HTML CSS, Responsive Web Designing, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, GIT versioning, SOAP, WordPress and PHP Education Master's in Applied Information Technology in Applied Information Technology Towson University 2017 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University 2007 Skills Sql server, Mysql, Pl/sql, Sql, Git, Javascript, Node.js, Reactjs, Perl, Php, Python, Svn, Xml, Html5, Soap, Dreamweaver, Web services, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Angular, Front End, Angularjs, Jquery, Wordpress