Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - NY Prepaid Wireless Hamtramck, MI ? Design, Developed of various Business applications, and complete familiarity with all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Working with Waterfall and Agile methodology. Attending scram master meeting provides status and feedback.  ? Built, tested and deployed scalable, highly available and modular software products.Built databases and table structures for web applications.  ? Developed POS programs using php framework CodeIgniter, and MySQL, HTML, CSSResponsive, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax  ? Collaborated with product Owner to design, build and Develop systems.Developed code fixes and enhancements for inclusion in future code releases and patches.  ? Worked closely with clients to establish System specifications and system designs.  Designed and developed dynamic websites and web-based software  ? Debugged and modified software components. Work Experience Web Developer NY Prepaid Wireless - New York, NY January 2019 to Present Project:  CBS(Cellular Bookkeeping System) is a web based commission tracking software for cell phone dealers or owners to track new activation, upgrades & all other spiff/commission of handsets & sim cards. Cellular business is all about commission by company, therefore tracking became a issue to dealers.  Assignment,  • Designed and developed computer software web applications.  • Built, tested and deployed scalable, highly available and modular software products.  • Built databases and table structures for webapplications.  • Developed POS programs using programming php framework CodeIgniter, and MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax  • And Communicating with Product Owner and BA Senior Developer Web Nest September 2013 to November 2018 Developer Flamma Corporation February 2012 to August 2013 • Worked closely with clients to establish System specifications and system designs.  • Built databases and table structures.  • Built, tested and deployed scalable, highly available and modular software  • Communicating with team and SME provide solution for trouble shooting and provide feedback. Education BSc in Computer Science and Engineering Sylhet International University 2013 Skills C#, C/c++, C++, Html, Javascript, Php, Codeigniter, Python, Css, Database, Database design, Mysql, Java, jquery, Selenium, Selenium webdriver, System analysis, Quality assurance, Maintenance Additional Information Skills:  •Website maintenance. • Database design.  •PHP, MySQL, CodeIgniter, •Python, RStudio  •HTML, CSS Responsive, JavaScript, jQuery • Website and portal monitoring  •Java, C/C++, C# • Quality assurance  •System analysis • Selenium WebDriver