IT Help Desk IT Help Desk Web Developer - Sugar Clothing Boutique Portsmouth, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Help Desk Top Guard Security - Norfolk, VA August 2015 to Present • Provide the highest level of customer service to end-users in-person, over the phone and through e-mail.  • Respond to and resolve customer requests for support in a timely manner.  • Maintain and update various software and hardware systems on workstations and servers.  • Maintain and update network systems.  • Configure, move, install and upgrade various computer hardware and software.  • Provide guidance and training to end-users as needed.  • Travel locally from office-to-office as needed to resolve support requests.  • Carry cell phone and pager to be on call and work after-hours as needed.  • Establish quality relationships with end-users, clients, vendors, and co-workers.  • Work with other technology team members and vendors.  • Work with security officers, clients, EVMS and city/state team members.  • Maintain familiarity with events and issues pertaining to the healthcare industry. Web Designer Sugar Clothing Boutique - Suffolk, VA August 2012 to August 2015 • Translate business and user requirements into highly engaging and compelling design concepts for web and print.  • Conceptualize, design, and develop the User Interface, as well as the overall look and feel of web pages.  • Create digital designs for online channels.  • Communicate design strategy and rationale to our team and other key stakeholders.  • Create designs including wireframes, visual design mock-ups, visual assets and documentation required for proper implementation.  • Analyze tasks, navigation and flows using UX best practices for the web and mobile. Education B.S. in Computer Information Systems Liberty University - Lynchburg, VA 2018 A.A in Programming University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD 2012 I.C. Norcom High School - Portsmouth, VA 2008 Skills Front End, Wordpress, Javascript