Software Testing Engineer Software Testing Engineer Front-end Web Developer San Diego, CA Work Experience Software Testing Engineer Rain Bird - San Diego, CA August 2018 to February 2019 QA testing for iQ4, a new web-based customer interface based in Angular. Besides task-by-task integration testing, working to implement an end-to-end testing suite using Protractor.    Main Technologies:  Git, JavaScript / TypeScript, Node.js, npm, Protractor, Selenium, Yarn Senior Web Developer Renovate America - San Diego, CA May 2015 to April 2017 I worked on two teams during my time at Renovate America:    The first was focused on an internal-facing toolkit for the call center. Much of the work focused on transferring functions from an outdated native Java desktop app to the web app. Most of the front-end work was within AngularJS (1.x) and Microsoft .NET Razor. Occasionally, I needed to modify the C#-based API in order to get data to ingest on the front end.    One major project during my time on this team was creating an interface for adding products to a customer's project, moving it from a jQuery-heavy independent page that was not user friendly to an integrated part of the larger toolkit. The leaders of the call center were very happy with the new interface, noting that it would make that portion of their responsibilities much easier.    The second team maintained the customer-facing marketing website. This site was built on SiteCore for content management, and also included AngularJS and Razor in the front-end stack.    Main Technologies:  AngularJS (1.x), Bootstrap, CSS / Sass, Git, Gulp, HTML 5, JavaScript, Kendo UI, Microsoft .NET Razor, Microsoft C#, Microsoft TFS Web Developer BestBuy.com - Richfield, MN September 2013 to March 2015 I was part of a small development group working on the analytics for the main BestBuy.com website. Working with the UI/UX developers, we would take in information from the site and package it to send to Adobe Analytics for tracking.    At one point we completely overhauled our codebase, moving from two large, mostly duplicated, jQuery-infused files to a module-based framework using RequireJS and integrated the new framework with Signal Tag Manager.    Main Technologies:  Adobe Analytics, Git, HTML, JavaScript, Jenkins, jQuery, Lodash, RequireJS, Signal Tag Manager Web Developer Target - Minneapolis, MN June 2013 to August 2013 While I was hired to code solutions for Adobe Analytics tracking, the position ended up being more of a business analysis role, managing tracking needs for Target.com. Web Developer Capella University - Minneapolis, MN January 2013 to March 2013 I was part of a team supporting and enhancing iGuide, a web portal for Capella  January 2013 - March 2013 students built on Liferay. My project was to implement the front-end interface for a new method for students to register for their classes online.  Capella University  Minneapolis, MN Main Technologies:  CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JSP  (contract) Web Developer Ambient Consulting - Minneapolis, MN September 2012 to November 2012 A short-term contract working with Preventice, developing a medical web application.    Main Technologies:  CSS, Dojo, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP Web Developer Digital River - Minnetonka, MN February 2011 to September 2012 Working within an in-house content management framework, I worked on customized e-commerce sites for Digital River clients. We completed a complete design of THQ's store, including an integrated single sign on.    Main Technologies:  CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery Web Developer Internet Broadcasting - Saint Paul, MN January 2008 to February 2011 Internet Broadcasting (now known as Lakana) is an online publisher for media companies, specializing in television station websites. I worked on front-end enhancements for various properties, developing within an in-house content management framework.    While the lead front-end developer for the Cox Media sites, I was responsible for (among other projects) the implementation of Adobe Analytics tracking code across their sites as well as adding a new ad unit framework.    Main Technologies:  CSS, HTML, JavaScript, XML / XSLT, YUI Education High school or equivalent Links https://github.com/kj-joseph https://kevinjoseph.net https://linkedin.com/in/kjjoseph/