Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Berlin, WI Work Experience Web Developer Custom Offsets - Appleton, WI December 2018 to July 2019 Update and maintain our websites using HTML, CSS, PHP and jQuery  ? Build a promoter system to engage the community with our businesses  ? Coordinate multiple projects to stay on track during the current sprint  ? Set up a tax system to reduce API calls and save the company money Technical Support Engineer & Web Developer DealerSocket - Oshkosh, WI September 2017 to December 2018 Programmed websites using HTML, CSS, PHP and jQuery  ? Modified existing widgets to desired need  ? Created new widgets to fulfill new ideas/requests  ? Put together documentation to help build programming skills of coworkers Web Developer Stellar Blue Technologies - Neenah, WI March 2017 to July 2017 Coded websites using HTML, SCSS, PHP, WordPress and jQuery  ? Built sites from a blank canvas to a fully featured website  ? Created "Pixel Perfect" websites based off a PSD mockup  ? Educated fellow developers on new discoveries and best practices Web Developer DealerSocket - Oshkosh, WI March 2015 to March 2017 Coded website to match PSD mockup using HTML, CSS, PHP, Bootstrap and jQuery  ? Built custom widgets that we did not currently support at the time  ? Coordinated multiple project teams to stay on track and launch by deadline  ? Maintained customer relations through design and build process  ? Created reports & dashboard with Salesforce for management to track department performance Web Developer UW Oshkosh - Oshkosh, WI October 2011 to May 2014 Managed UW Oshkosh's college newspaper's website Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Software Engineering UW Oshkosh - Oshkosh, WI January 2011 to May 2014 Skills .net, C#, C++, Content management, Git, Html, Bootstrap, Php, Laravel, Java, jquery, Asp, Content management systems, Css, Sql, Wordpress, Self starter, Team player, Microsoft office, Publisher Links http://goo.gl/JXGGGD Additional Information SKILLS  ? Programming Languages: Java, C#, C++ and PowerShell  ? Web Development: AWS, ASP .NET, PHP, jQuery, Azure, SQL, HTML, CSS, SCSS, and Bootstrap  ? Content Management Systems: WordPress, Laravel, College Publisher and Town News  ? Sophisticated with Microsoft Office 365, Salesforce, Adobe Creative Suite and Git Source Control  ? Personal Qualities: Team Player, Dedicated, Self Starter, Overachiever and Responsible