Sr. Web Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web Developer - Socialfix Media Atlanta, GA • 8+ years of Web Design, Development and Maintenance of client-server applications.  • Strong understanding of resolution and device compatibility • Experienced with ZPL and ZPL 2 coding for Zebra mobile printers • Proficiency in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, responsive web design, Bootstrap.  • Expertise in web development technologies like AJAX, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XSL, UML, COM/DCOM and PHP.  • Experience with AngularJS including knowledge of Directives, Services and Filters.  • Experience with event driven applications using AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON.  • Experienced in front end and middle ware frameworks like Yii2, AJAX, Bootstrap, WordPress.  • Experienced in database like SQL, Oracle to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages.  • Experience in Content Management Systems.  • Exposure to Application Servers like Web Logic, XAMPP, LAMP and Apache Tomcat Web Server.  • Experience providing and consuming Restful web services, SOAP and JSON • Proficient on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Strong knowledge in database design and developing MySQL and MongoDB.  • Ability to utilize JavaScript only in an isolated environment • including JDBC, Spring, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Hibernate.  • Expertise in Analyzing data Quality checks using shell scripts. Upgrading, installing, and configuring PostgreSQL.  • Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, JDBC, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  • Experience in design and development of JUNIT test cases, load balancing and failovers with cache servers and application servers.  • Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  • Familiar with Resco Mobile CRM and PhoneGap • Fluent with both Windows and Mac OSX • Experience on Query tools like ROBOMONGO, PhpMyAdmin for MongoDB and MySQL.  • Hands on experience on Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Views, Backup & Recovery.  • Experience in various methodologies of SDLC like Agile development and Waterfall development.  • Goal oriented, organized, team player with good interpersonal skills; thrives well within group environment as well as individually. Work Experience Sr. Web Developer Socialfix Media - Clinton, NJ January 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Worked on several front-end designing websites using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, Bootstrap with device responsiveness.  • Developed iPad friendly web applications utilizing Twitter Bootstrap • Extensively used CSS3 media queries and Bootstrap while working on responsive web design • Used AngularJS Services $http for consuming REST API's and utilized Postman tool to debug Web API.  • Created methods (get, post, put, delete) to make requests to the API server and tested Restful API using postman.  • Used GIT for continuous integration and deployment.  • Worked on MYSQL DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication, schema design.  • Created pdf report for customer with all information by using Pdfmake Module.  • Used API from SendGrid to deliver bulk email to all customers.  • Involved in Agile methodology for SDLC and was a part of all tiers in web application.  • Utilize Adobe CS6 for graphics • For an E-Commerce web project worked on YII2 advanced framework with MySQL and MongoDB.  • Used RoboMongo application as a query writer for MongoDB.  • Designed and implemented ER-Diagrams for complex database structure for E-Commerce application.  • Integrated MySQL of XAMPP as a user details storage purpose and MongoDB for large scale data storing.  • Worked on Node.js for implementation of chat application as a communication purpose.  • Worked with JSON for data exchange between client and server.  • Designed and developed SVG graphics for the front-end web application.  • Worked on Ionic2 framework with Angular2 for hybrid mobile application development.  • Created custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS.  • Integrated google map API, payment gateways, social API's for login and push notifications.  • Worked on RESTFUL API web services in Angular2 with MySQL for Ionic2 mobile application.  • Worked on Ticketing System project with large scale of MongoDB storing operations and MySQL queries using YII2 Framework.  • Debugged the application using chrome developer tools, Firebug and traversed through the nodes of the tree using DOM functions.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Google chrome, Internet Explorer, Mozilla and Firefox.    Environments: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, NodeJS, JSON, Bootstrap, Yii2, Ionic2, MySQL, MongoDB. Sr. Web Developer Leidos - King George, VA June 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities: • Worked on Ionic Framework for building mobile application using AngularJS.  • Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle RDBMS • Architect new interfaces using java, maven/ant, spring mvc / struts, or hibernate based on provided requirements XSD/DDF's • Architect the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO).  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Developed WordPress plugins and modules to embed into the active pages using PHP.  • Architect and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  • Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases.  • Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  • Developed CRUD operations using MySQL, SQLite and PHP for mobile application login/signup.  • Worked on E-mail verification with token url using PHP and MySQL.  • Integrated Restful web services like JSON for data transfer from the server to user.  • Worked on splash screen, push notifications, Geolocation, payment integration, local storage data and social API's integration.  • Developed UI animations using AngularJS for mobile application.  • Played a key role in installation and configuration of the various Hadoop ecosystem tools such as Sqoop, Flume, Pig and Hbase. Web Developer Trimble, Inc - Coralville, IA September 2012 to May 2015 Responsibilities: • keeping track of website visits, updating new content displays on websites.  • Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval • Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  • Architect REST WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication • Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic.  • Architect back-end stored procedures and triggers using Oracle PL/SQL, involved in database objects creation, performance tuning of stored procedures, and query plan.  • Integrating Rich Faces and My Faces in configuring Rich Faces Filter and Servlet in the configuration file • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.  • Modifying and extending open source applications like CMS Made Yii Framework.  • Developing and creating PHP MySQL applications as per the specifications.  • Performing the responsibilities of implementing and hosting of systems on a web server.  • Coordinating with team members in developing database structure.  • Testing and analysing programming projects and reporting the same to the programming manager.  Environments: PHP, MySQL, CSS, JavaScript and Windows. Web Developer Wolfram Research, Inc - Champaign, IL May 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities: • Handled PHP backend development for dynamic database driven website.  • Development work is also done to the legacy system using WebSphere Studio Application Devloper WSAD IDE. The modified application is deployed on websphere using ANT and javascripts for use by interface project.  • Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering Servlets and JSP components to be deployed on a VMWare VI Client.  • Lead front-end web developer to all web projects and apps • Architect webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware • Architect Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • EJB components are deployed on the WebLogic Integration with MQSeries using JMS.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  • Involved in UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose • Architect interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux • Implemented, prepared, executed and installed support to assure quality system changes Troubleshot problems with PHP and other web technologies.  • Designed, developed, coded, tested and debugged system requirements for the purpose of conversions and development projects.  • Communicated with clients to meet up with their requirements.  • Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  • Rewrote code for enabling download as .pdf with new iText library for Java • Worked with Rational ClearCase to provide sophisticated version control, workspace management and parallel development support. Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  • Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  • Wrote complex sql statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  • Performed other related tasks under the instructions of a senior PHP programmer.  Environments: PHP, DHTML, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, CSS, JavaScript and Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills database (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), JSON (6 years), MYSQL (8 years), PHP. (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages C, C++, Java, Unix, PHP.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, Bootstrap, REST, MVC.  Software Engineering SDLC, Design Patterns, Testing, Agile Methodology.  Database: MySQL, MongoDB, PhpMyAdmin.  Tools and IDE Eclipse, Net Beans, Git, Visual Studio Code.  Application Servers XAMPP, LAMP, Tomcat.  Operating Systems MAC, Windows, Linux.