Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Wyandotte, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Community Living Serverices, Inc - Wayne, MI October 2015 to Present 1. Set up LAMP servers for testing and development for web applications  2. Created web applications that allow HR to perform functions in Active Directory as stated by the IT manager  3. Led the creation of API application in OnBase for the purchasing department to generate purchase orders from purchase requests. This reduced the time required by 50%.  4. Headed the development of the Training departments website. Site Allows users to sign up for classes, trainers to grade students, generate certificates.  5. Developed app-solutions using a variety of languages, frameworks, and platforms such as Laravel, C#, SQL, and HTML.  6. Creates SSRS reports when needed. Web Developer/Programmer Wolverine Technical Staffing, Inc October 2014 to September 2015 1. Successfully Set up LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP applications) server and created web applications to support internal and external website functions.   2. Created applications to communicate between websites and Active Directory to keep staffing information up to date.   3. Designed and Developed 3 Websites for related services. Senior Web Developer Unified Media Marketing Group - Southfield, MI October 2013 to August 2014 1. Worked closely with the database development team and business owners to modernize existing WordPress applications.  2. Custom designed WordPress themes for clients.  3. Met with clients for requirement gathering purposes.  4. Supported and developed web application developers by providing advice, coaching and educational opportunities.   5. Provided expert support for customers with application development issues  6. Participated in the full software development lifecycle.  7. Acted as the team lead to manage work allocation, provide guidance when necessary, and handle cross-departmental communication. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Software engineer specialization Colorado Technical University-Online - Colorado Springs, CO January 2013 to December 2015 Skills PHP (5 years), OnBase (3 years), Laravel (2 years), Javascript, MySQL (5 years), MSSQL (2 years), Apache (5 years), Linux (5 years) Certifications/Licenses OnBase Certified API Developer June 2019 to June 2021 The OnBase Certified Application Programming Interface (OCAPI) certification is awarded to OnBase professionals who demonstrate an understanding of the OnBase APIs and their functionality.