Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Denver, CO After one year at my most recent position at American Furniture Warehouse, I have obtained many skills that I would like to move forward with and apply at a new position. Looking for a place where I can continue to grow, learn, and hone my skills in web development. I have the passion, knowledge, and drive to create web applications from start to finish Work Experience Web Developer DONNA BETH - Denver, CO January 2014 to Present Donna Beth Creations is a website featuring her bridal business, their media and their story.    RESPONSIBILITIES:    - website creator  - hosting the server  - maintenance of any code  - page creation  - any design changes Web Developer MAXIMUS - Denver, CO May 2019 to July 2019 Contracted out to create two websites for them in a month and a half time period. Created mock-ups to show design to clients, them moved into any imagery work necessary through Photoshop and illustrator. Both sites were created using Javascript, HTML and CSS. Web Developer/ Web Project Lead American Furniture Warehouse - Denver, CO March 2017 to April 2018 American Furniture Warehouse is a household name in Colorado and Arizona for furniture and I came on to help mold their e-commerce website to take it to the next level. I completely redesigned their site and helped increase sales.    RESPONSIBILITIES:    - responsible for all projects  - seasonal layout changes websites  - all page changes/creation  - planning  - web image creation to get it done all in scheduled time  - analysis  - promotional swaps  - design/development  - product content management  - testing  - plugin creation/deployment  - implementation  - SEO management Education Diploma in Web development The Art Institute - Denver, CO September 2016 to September 2017 Skills BOOTSTRAP (4 years), CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years), HTML 5 (5 years), Javascript (3 years), MySQL (3 years), PHP (3 years), jQuery (3 years) Assessments Graphic Design — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4xe-mfex-lve2oop Search Engine Optimization — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ycck97rxq-kghv5f Graphic Design — Proficient July 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/twad-wbctg3y1eoj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Arapahoe Basin - Kitchen Manager  Sept. 2010 - June 2014    Working as the kitchen manager for Black Mountain Lodge I was assigned tasks of purchasing all food, inventory, invoices, hiring, scheduling, stocking, and monthly profit and loss reports holding a 20% food and labor cost for my department, all while managing 10 people beneath me to run the restaurant. It has taught me an extremely valuable lesson of how to do my job quickly and efficiently, and also how to work with many people from all different strokes of life respectfully and professionally.