Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Seattle Developers Co-op Seattle, WA Work Experience Web Developer Seattle Developers Co-op - Seattle, WA April 2018 to Present Co-founder. Worked with clients to create, improve and maintain web  applications. Provided clients with the ground-up creation of software FRAMEWORKS & DEV  solutions in a wide variety of ecommerce, marketing, SEO, CMS systems ENVIRONMENTS and other web applications.  React  Most recently designed and developed a web service and advertising  platform for terrestrial radio stations to associate text and image Vue.js  metadata with on-air advertisements. Built Node.js and Express backend Redux  for serving metadata coordinated from Firestore database and third-party APIs. Customer-serving front-end was built in React.js and AngularJS    used for managing data, scheduling on-air events, and managing jQuery  services. Tech used: React, Node, Express, Firestore, MySQL, AWS  Bootstrap  Other responsibilities include creating responsive websites from Node.js  wireframe design specs, implementing cross platform accessibility  standards, optimizing for SEO and upgrading to modern front end Express  frameworks, building server-side web applications and API development  Django for handling data across multiple formats including XML and JSON.  MongoDB  Technologies, frameworks and languages used:  Node.js, Express.js, React, Vue.js, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL, Sass, MySQL  Bootstrap, Webpack, Git, AWS Firebase / Firestore UX Engineer Postgres - Seattle, WA April 2018 to August 2018 Primarily responsible for the construction and implementation of UX TOOLS  components used in web and IOT applications while coordinating  between remote client engineering and local design teams. Engineered Git  Vue.js component system from design specs while emphasizing speed and AWS  reusability in modularized codebase. Created component sharing system  for efficient code reiteration across multiple products under the same Azure  brand. Learned TypeScript on short notice to meet collaboration    standards for customer demands.    Worked synergistically with innovative healthcare hardware technology  manufacturer to develop user interface for remote patient care  technology. Implemented solutions for spatial navigation of web app  using limited input hardware while maintaining web disability standards, readability and overall user experience.    Technologies, frameworks and languages used:  Vue.js, Vuex, React, Express.js, AngularJS, Node.js, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, TypeScript, Sass, Webpack, Git, Firebase Web Developer Jump2Go - Seattle, WA July 2013 to December 2017 Designed and developed web applications for managing radio station  event coordination of metadata with music and advertising on-air events.  Maintained and themed WordPress sites. Built interactive web  applications involving live on-air content during broadcast events  nationally. Developed a dashboard for administration use by customers  using Node.js, Express, and MongoDB. Created a multitude of server side  web applications in Node.js for use by terrestrial radio stations nationally in live broadcast over connected radio platforms.    Technologies, frameworks and languages used:  jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, PHP, Bootstrap, WordPress, Gulp, Grunt, MySQL, SQL Education B.S. in Software Development Western Governors University January 2019 to Present A.A.S in Information Technology Bellevue College September 2010 to June 2013