Freelancer - Web Developer Freelancer - <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelancer - Web Developer Brooklyn, NY A software developer with a curious mind and passion for technology. My focus is on solving challenging  problems, learning new technologies, and implementing ideas into code. A collaborative developer who thrives  on the discovery and accelerating performance.    PROFESSIONAL SKILLS AND INTERESTS  • Frontend Development • Designing Prototypes and UI/UX solutions  • Backend Development • Developing and Leveraging Databases  • Mobile Application Development • Project Management (Atlassian Jira) Work Experience Freelancer - Web Developer SerkTech February 2014 to July 2019 Work as the sole developer on a one-to-one basis with clients, from initial ideas talks to final deliverables.  • Created initial ideas, prototypes, user flows and designs within development and production environments, deployments.  • Provided estimation, plan, develop, test, deploy, maintenance support and continuous integration.  • Recommended process updates and requirement priorities to clients following diagnosis of technical issues. Associate TriA, Web Design Studio June 2011 to December 2012 Supported and participated in cross functional activities to learn about the development process and workflows for designers and developer teams.  • Monitored existing websites of clients and updated content.  • Helped design team in planning, designing process and shaping web solutions.  • Collaborated with a small team of developers to discuss the status of current/future projects.    SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS  mbbachatafestival.com - Software Developer / Project Manager. A social website for dancing community. Project from scratch (UI/UX design) to deployment. WordPress platform. Team of 3 people. Completed in June 2019.  ladancefusionfestival.com - Lead Developer: A social website for Los Angeles Dance Fusion Festival. As lead  designer and developer on the project, my involvement ranged from initial ideas stage, communicating daily with the client, development to deployment. Used the Kanban for rapid and continuous development. Completed in February 2018.  inLine Web App - Developer: Python to build and deploy a queue management system application that allows colleges to handle students queues smartly and speedily, using the Django framework and PostgreSQL.  onFocus Android App - Lead Developer: Developed an app designed to help people improve short-term works. From the initial ideas stage to prototyping and production deployment. Completed in December 2017. Education Bachelor of Technology in Software Development New York City College of Technology - New York, NY August 2018 Bachelor of Finance in Economics & Entrepreneurship Sumy National Agrarian University - Kiev, UA July 2009 Skills Front End, PHP, Javascript, Wordpress Links http://serhiyyarosh.com