Web Developer/Programmer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Programmer • Around 6 years of experience in developing .Net based applications for various domains including structure & sculpture preservation and Environment Control.  • Experience in Microsoft technologies, such as .NET Framework (4.7,4.0/3.5/3.0), ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, Web Service, LINQ, IIS 7.0/6.0, Json, CSS, HTML, JAVA SCRIPT, VISUAL STUDIO.NET (2013/2010/2008), ADO.NET, VB and MS SQL Server (SQL 2008) as database.  • Experience in developing 3-tier applications using C#, .NET Serviced Components. Involved in developing components for Business layer and Data Layer.  • Experience in developing GUI (Graphical User Interfaces) using VB/C# Web based (Win Forms, ASP.Net) application development.  • Experience in developing applications using .NET application building blocks (Data access, Exception Handling, Validation).  • Experience in designing and branding Master Pages utilizing Server Controls, Data Grid control, Form Validation controls, Custom controls and CSS, Bootstrap.  • Experience in securing web applications using ASP.NET authentication (Forms-based Authentication) and authorization mechanisms like authorizing Users, Roles.  • Experience on messaging technologies like XML.  • Experience in ADO.NET components such as Data.  • Connection, Data Command, Data Readers, and Datasets and Data Adapter.  • Expertise in creating web based application using technologies like ASP.Net 4.0/3.5, JAVA Script, and HTML, React js, Angular js.  • Experience in using TFS for Version Control, Azure dev ops git, source tree.  • Excellent analytical and programming abilities in using technology to create elegant, flexible and maintainable solutions for complex development problems. Work Experience Web Developer/Programmer Hooverandstrong August 2018 to Present Jewelry manufacturing company - Old Unix based system Transition to Microsoft technology.  First application customer information system - which keeps tracking of customer, their contacts, types, Addresses, financial audits, Notes, shipping information.  Angular, React js, web api 2, visual studio 2017, SSIS - jobs, Remote configuration and import export, configuration project on Azure dev ops, Create and configuration SSIS jobs, configuration build process for Reactjs application and back end application on azure dev ops, SSMS installation. .Net Web Developer Allianz Travel Insurance October 2014 to March 2018 Description:  This application involves creation of quote tool which get integrated on publisher side (cms integration- WordPress) then affiliates get to download it for their site for advertisement.  Secure environment called Distributed Quote tool. Basically this project is developed as an internet application which is used by different partners.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in entire SDLC and identifying the requirements and worked on Agile Methodology (Scrum).  • Consumer of the independent Web Service and create web reference to consume functionality Maintain Application written in ASP.NET, html5.0 base forms, Caching features, data later.  • Created ASP.NET Application for concurrent users.  • Developed Anjularjs quote tool application, use factory for consuming services to display backend data on the web browser using ADO.NET.  • Implementation in .NET architecture.  • Research, develop and configure kibana, log stash and elastic search for collecting and filtering log files, created on 508 compliance website for disable people.  • Developed the data binding and Data Access layer with using ADO.NET.  • Worked on Maintaining Application.  • Developed Jobs - Create console app which sends email to internal and external agencies for sales alert and price difference.  • Developed features for example resource center cms and fixed bugs work closely with BA and QA testers.  • Work on enhancement (for example all state project) for external Projects and internal Projects - c#.net.  • Developed admin tool for managing external app for business -angular js, CSS, bootstrap.  • Fixed bugs on production and internal environment.  • Developed Quote Tool -type web application -had two different version-for advertising, integration after development with other agencies on cms, word press.  • Work on daughter window - for disable impaired people -html, JavaScript, CSS, make interface easier to interact- use w3c standards.  • Developed web site Former Guide project -angular js, CSS, jQuery, html, c#.net.  • Work with stakeholders to get requirement.  • Used c#.Net for development and design of the Business Logic and Data Access Layers.  • Troubleshoot issues - Found and Fixed.  • Use Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to design look and feel of the pages.  • Worked on enhancement for partner, Developed internal tool for existing services.  • Create .exe jobs which take the data from table and gives specific information about sales.  • Migration on new platform -set up fixed bugs on JIRA and research on Google Tag Manager and Configure for one web CMS - which replaces Google analytics from application within.    Environment: .NET Framework 4.0/3.5/2.0, ADO.Net, ASP.NET 4.0, C#, Angular js 3.1.1, CSS, IIS 6.0, Visual Studio 2012, oracle server 2008, and HTML5.0 controls, Firefox 7.0, Windows 7, Jira, oneweb cms, web app, service setup -render kit installation, install intellij idea tool, apache and maven installation and configuration, postman and soap ui. .NET Developer Group CS2, Charlottesville March 2014 to October 2014 Description:  This project is developed as a WPF application (ProControl App). This application mainly focuses on Database.  System Manage - control and prevent coal dust in and around coal-fired power plants. The port controlled sprayers soaking its coal in regular cycles, adjusting to wind and weather conditions.  Responsibilities:  • Maintain the project using VB.Net, C#.Net, using various object oriented features like classes, Properties, Public and out variables and ASP.Net.  • Implemented design patterns and the common components of the application in C#.NET  • Using .NET Integrated functionalities like Control validation and business logic application.  • Used Waterfall methodology and Software development Methodology.  • Used VB.NET and ADO.NET to define and implement Business Logic Layer and Data Access Layer.  • Enhancing Web forms, Master Pages, User Controls and Custom Controls by using HTML, CSS, and Asp.Net Controls.  • Implemented Server and Client side validations using ASP.NET validation controls and JavaScript.  • Used WPF controls for smooth Interfaces, simplicity and rich functionality.  • Extensively used Data Grid, Item Controls with paging and sorting for displaying data on pages.  • Used RegX class for control validation.  • Create, Read and write xml file.  • Use Event Viewer to Log Errors.  • Create event on error reporting to data layer class and send respond from events to interface, create two separate events one for reporting interface and another for database level errors.  • Developed .XAML pages, user controls and validation controls using C#.net.  • Used LINQ to Do CRUD Operations.  • Create xml structures.  • Implemented Form Based Security Authentication and Authorization based on Access-Levels for Pages.  • Debugging of an application.  • Git/source tree for version control    Environment: C#.Net, Visual Studio 2013, WPF, LINQ, .Net Framework 4.5, SQL Server 2012, Windows 7, CSS, HTML, Java Scripts 2008, SQL Server 2008 R2. .Net Developer Valador, Herndon August 2013 to February 2014 Description:  This application involves creation of new Veteran Owned Small Business a highly secure environment called VGP. Basically this project is developed as an internet application which is used by internal employees and users from different client locations.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in entire SDLC and identifying the requirements and worked on Agile Methodology (Scrum).  • Consumer of the independent Web Service and create web reference to consume functionality.  • Mostly Worked on Maintaining Application.  • Implementation in .net architecture.  • Worked with ASP.NET, html5.0 base forms, Caching features, passing information between Model, View, and Controller.  • Used VB.Net for development and design of the Business Logic and Data Access Layers.  • Find And Fixed Bugs.  • Use Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to design look and feel of the pages.  • Programmed ADO.NET for communication between application and databases.  • Developed the data binding and Data Access layer with using ADO.NET.    Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, VB, ADO.Net, ASP.NET 4.0, MVC 4.0, CSS, IIS 6.0, Visual Studio 2012, SQL server 2008, and HTML5.0 controls, Firefox 7.0, Windows 7. Education Bachelor's Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, Angular, Javascript, Front End