Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Amity Harbor, NY Hard working, young web developer who is able to work in a group or alone is seeking an entry level web development position in a reputable company where I can use my educational background to develop my skills. Work Experience Web Developer HOZIO - Bohemia, NY July 2019 to August 2019 Re-design and implementing new features to existing Wordpress sites  Design and build responsive Wordpress websites from scratch  Adding custom CSS & JS to Wordpress using Chrome Inspector Tool.  Responsible for uploading necessary files to multiple FTP accounts Food Runner Bridgehampton, NY April 2012 to June 2019 Set up raw bar food for customers, such as shuck oysters, clams, lobster, set up the shrimp and curried mussel platters.  Garnish all appetizers and entrees.  Help make salads, desserts, and even help make the appetizers themselves.  Weekends I take control in the kitchen and expedite the staff, tell them what foods they have on the board, when to fire the food, how the customer wants the food cooked. Education Diploma in Web Application Design and Development HUNTER BUSINESS SCHOOL - Levittown, NY November 2018 to June 2019 Skills Content management systems, Content management, Javascript, Php, Python, Java, jquery, Mysql, Sql, Data mining, Html5, Optimization, Wordpress, Seo, Social media marketing, Marketing Links http://www.nycwebdev.io Additional Information I have a thorough understanding of writing code for Web sites and Web applications.  Ability to design, build, and maintain Web sites.  Exceptional for writing, designing and editing Web page content.  Ability to think quickly and successfully handle difficult/complicated situations.  Able to get things done in a timely manner, very capable of adapting to different environments.  I have an amazing ability to work well with others, such as co-workers and clients.    COMPETENCIES  HTML5 CSS3 JavaScript jQuery Java 11 Python SQL/MySQL PHP Internet Applications SEO Optimization Social Media Marketing Data Mining Software Content Management Systems (WordPress)