Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Arlington, TX A Senior Web Developer with ample of experience in my field. Looking for a place to fully utilize my skills and challenge myself everyday. Spent over 7 years of experience working at major multinational companies as well as startups. Comfortable in a team-oriented environment as well as fully capable of working and handling independent projects. Work Experience Senior Web Developer Tony & Mauth Consulting - Chicago, IL July 2018 to April 2019 • Involved in User Sessions, gathering requirements and  developing web application using Agile methodology.- Worked on advanced UI design and development using AngularJs, NodeJs, HTML5 and CSS.  • Extensively used Bootstrap for creating web pages.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS to create  interactive user interface.  • Developed dynamic UI using Angular JS. Created AngularJS  controllers, services and used them to filters for filter functionality in  search box and integrator functionalities.  • Developed REST architecture based web services to facilitate  communication between client and servers.  • Built a real-time mouse/click user analytics web service with  Node.js, Expressjs. Called REST web services through AngularJS  services to get JSON Object and modified the response object.  • Scalable single-page web pattern using EmberJS in MVVM pattern  design. Senior Web Developer Whatscheaper - Las Vegas, NV November 2016 to June 2018 • Worked on APIs integration and Custom PHP.  • Manage a team of developers   • Interacted with Business Analysts to understand the scope of the  project and technical requirements.  • Integrate data from various back-end services and databases.  • Create and maintain software documentation.  • Create website layout/user interface by using HTML/CSS and be  responsible for maintaining, expanding, and scaling the site.  • Determine the cache strategies for certain HTTP request.  • Implement authentication session to certain routes.  • Create authentication strategies and build a role based accessing  system.  • Developed a web socket Based online chat plugin to assist our  customer service.  • Prepared various project related documents such as test cases and  coding standards and guidelines. Senior Web Developer No Limit Agency - Chicago, IL July 2015 to October 2016 • Developed WordPress ecosystem, built WordPress templates,  including OOP PHP techniques,and modifying themes with child  themes.  • Worked on standards-compliant HTML5 & CSS3 and responsive  design techniques.  • Worked on APIs integration.  • Optimized website for increased opt-ins, better search rankings, and  user engagement and retention.  • Translated design mockups into fully-functioning websites and  applied responsive media queries to deliver mobile-friendly website. Web Developer Envisionit Agency - Chicago, IL March 2013 to June 2015 Creating Custom directives, factory services and dependency  injection forAngular JS based front end UI.  • Developed UI screens using CSS, JavaScript for validations and  JQuery for animations.  • Used Angular JS for single page web application.  • Familiarity with large multi-server  • Created and maintained the front-end standards document and  • oversaw production of JavaScript,HTML, and CSS (and PHP for the  WordPress blog).  • Supplemented and extended existing CMS using PHP.  • Programmed HTML5 canvases to animate particles on web  backgrounds for site-widepromotions.  • Created and implemented a custom CSS grid system, with CSS  media queries for mobile responsiveness.  • Experienced the MVC architecture. Education Associate in Graduate Certificate Texas State University - Texas City, TX Bachelor's in Bsc (Hons) in Information System University of East London - London, KY Master's in Business administration/Project Management New England Collage - New Hampshire Gardens, MD Skills PHP (6 years), Angular (2 years), Javascript (3 years), Wordpress (6 years), HTML 5 (5 years), HTML (6 years), Git (4 years), CSS3 (6 years), SQL (6 years), WOOCOMMERCE (4 years), LARAVEL (4 years), PHOTOSHOP (5 years), SKETCH (5 years), ADOBE XD (3 years), GULP.JS (2 years), GRUNT (1 year), JSON (4 years), SASS (1 year), LESS (1 year), BOOTSTRAP (4 years), JQUERY (4 years), Front End, Angularjs, HTML5 Certifications/Licenses The 5 Level of Leadership April 2016 to Present The John Maxwell Company Certified Scrum Master September 2014 to Present Scrum Alliance ITIL Foundation Level Version 3 June 2012 to Present EXIN