Java/UI Developer Java/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer El Segundo, CA • 6+years of experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Applications Design, Development, Integration, Installation, Implementation, Maintenance, Testing, and Debugging of various client/server web applications.  • Extensively worked on HTML4 / HTML5, CSS2 / CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AngularJS, D3 JS, UI Grid and XML to deliver rich web based User Interfaces (UI).  • Developed applications using JavaScript MVC frameworks such as AngularJS.  • Extensively used various components of AngularJS like Angular Directives, Angular Controllers, Angular DOM, Angular Services, Angular Events, Angular Modules and Angular Validations.  • Extensively worked on D3 JS for manipulating documents based on data. Created various charts like Bar Charts, Line charts, waterfall model etc.  • Developed Responsive Web Designs (RWD) using Bootstrap.  • Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) along with DOM functions and dealt with challenges in High traffic websites.  • Experience in following the W3C standards and validations using HTML, CSS and Java Script for building Web applications along with sound understanding of HTML5 API's.  • Extensive experience in Testing, Debugging and troubleshooting the existing code using Firebug, Chrome Inspector, IE Toolkit and other tools.  • Extensive knowledge in JavaScript, especially using JQuery in AJAX-driven web applications and also experience in making webpages Cross browser compatible.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, Animations, and Layouts, positioning, border, margin, padding, table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors including the Box model.  • Worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome, well experienced in making webpages Cross browser compatible.  • Sound understanding and good experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation.  • Experience in working in different IDE'S like Eclipse, JetBrains WebStorm, Notepad ++ and Sublime text.  • Experience in working with various databases like Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Experience working in Agile and Waterfall (SDLC Methodologies) environments.  • Worked on version control tools like Subversion, Tortoise SVN, and Subclipse.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Experience in documentation using MS tools (Word, Excel, PPT, Project and Access).  • Experience in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of future pages.  • Excellent oral and written communication and interpersonal skills.  • Determined quick learner with strong interpersonal, communication skills and proven ability to manage positive and productive client relationship. Work Experience Java/UI Developer AT&T - El Segundo, CA December 2018 to Present Involved in the implementation of the DTV Now website to allow customers to create accounts, select and subscribe to various packages, modify/cancel the plans etc.  Responsibilities:  • Work with Business to understand the requirements and develop User Interface prototypes to demonstrate business use cases.  • Develop the components/templates using Angular 7.  • Provide access to the business to update/modify the content on the webpage via the CMS using AEM.  • Worked on creating tagging using the adobe for analytical purposes.  • Working in Onsite-Offshore model.  • Construct powerful and modern front-end architecture, involving Angular, typescript, SCSS and Node-powered workflow and build system involving web-pack, and other tools.  • Work with backend teams to integrate the API, Code review, mentoring team in domain and technical knowledge.  • Unit testing, technical issue resolutions, troubleshooting and maintaining the application, status reporting, planning and offshore coordination.  • Debug the application using Developer Tools to traverse the documents and manipulate the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Constructed powerful and modern front-end architecture, involving Angular, typescript, SCSS and Node-powered workflow and build system involving web-pack, and other tools. Also worked with backend teams to integrate the API, Code review, mentoring team in domain and technical knowledge.  • Provide access to the business to update/modify the content on the webpage via the CMS using AEM and worked on creating tagging using the adobe for analytical purposes.  • Unit testing, technical issue resolutions, troubleshooting and maintaining the application, status reporting, planning and offshore coordination.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, Angular 7, CMS, AEM, Adobe, AIM NVDA, Visual Studio Code. Web/UI Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR August 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Business Analysts to understand the requirements and develop User Interface prototypes to demonstrate business use cases.  • Interacted with the UX team get the mockup screens for the applications  • Developed reusable components and modules in Angular framework that played a vital role in the development of the application.  • Used Ionic command line utility (Ionic CLI) to create and develop Ionic apps.  • Used Cordova to build and deploy as a native app.  • Used Angular 4 as framework to create the Application which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript and React JS  • Coded extensively in ReactJS to make rich Internet web pages and created custom date picker on the website.  • Construct powerful and modern front-end architecture, involving React, Redux. A Node-powered workflow and build system involving web-pack, and other tools.  • Developed SCSS style sheets. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons.  • Used RAML to define the API design.  • Used NPM to install dependency packages.  • Involved in developing Angular components, filters during the process.  • Written $http driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions.  • Experience in deploying and managing web applications.  • Worked with back-end Developers to gather requirements, enhance the application functionality, and add new features.  • Participated in daily meetings to keep up track of the on-going project status and issues.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, Angular 2, Angular 4, Bootstrap, Material Design, React Js, RAML, Visual Studio Code. Web/UI Developer Neustar - Englewood, CO November 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Worked with Business Analysts to understand the requirements and develop User Interface prototypes to demonstrate business use cases.  ? Interacted with the UX team to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented using HTML5, CSS3.  ? Developed reusable services and modules in Angular JS framework that played a vital role in successful migration of application.  ? Participated in meetings with the end-clients to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them with the help of HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  ? Built Angular framework including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters.  ? Participated in making Responsive Web Design using Media Queries and Twitter Bootstrap to design app for mobile/tablet interfaces.  ? Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  ? Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, created HTML navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML and created charts utilizing D3Js  ? Extensively used various components of AngularJS like Angular Directives, Angular Controllers, Angular DOM, Angular Services, Angular Events, Angular Modules and Angular Validations.  ? Followed agile methodology for project execution and played active role in all phases of SDLC.  ? Worked in Onsite - Offshore model.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON, AngularJS, Bootstrap, D3 JS, MS Office, Dreamweaver CS5, CKEditor, Eclipse IDE. Web/UI Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR November 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for migrating application from Tableau to HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS, and D3 JS.  • Worked closely with business analysts to understand existing application and developed POC to convert existing module to HTML5, JavaScript libraries like JQuery, D3 JS, Backbone JS and JavaScript framework AngularJS. This paved the roadmap for conversion of entire application.  • Extensively used D3.js, JavaScript library for producing dynamic, interactive data visualizations in web browsers  • Developed reusable services and modules in Angular JS framework that played a vital role in successful migration of application.  • Played active role in developing directives, services, filters, modules during the migration process.  • Developed Custom directives to create a reusable Month slider.  • Created directives for Multi-Select, Single select options in a dropdown.  • Designed file format previews (Pdf, Excel and Print) for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure.  • Debug the application using Developer Tools to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Worked in Onsite - Offshore model.  • Extensively used Developer tools to debug and identify issues.  • Followed agile methodology for project execution and played active role in all phases of SDLC.  • Implemented validation and formatting so that the data meets specific criteria.  • Extensively used CSS styles to customize the appearance of components.    Environment: HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON, AngularJS, D3 JS, PhoneGap, Bootstrap, D3 JS, MS Office, Dreamweaver CS5, Eclipse IDE. Web/UI Developer Sears Holdings Corporation January 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating an internal application in HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Worked closely with business analysts to understand the module.  • Involved in developing directives, services, filters, modules during the process.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Implemented an auto mode where the JavaScript is automatically cycles through and also selects each tab periodically until a tab is explicitly selected.  • Developed SPA (Single Page Applications) using AngularJS.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Built application with web technology with PhoneGap to deploy to mobile platforms.  • Worked in Onsite - Offshore model.  • Extensively used Firebug, Developer tools to debug and identify issues.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fixed the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Followed agile methodology for project execution and played active role in all phases of SDLC.  • Implemented validation and formatting so that the data meets specific criteria.  • Extensively used CSS styles to customize the appearance of components.    Environment: HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON, AngularJS, PhoneGap, Bootstrap, BackboneJS, MS Office, Dreamweaver CS5, Eclipse IDE. Web/UI Developer BBVA - Birmingham, AL July 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the UX team to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented using HTML5, CSS3.  • Interacted with Business Analysts to understand the requirements and develop User Interface prototypes to demonstrate business use cases. These prototypes proved very helpful for BA team to finalize requirements working with the clients.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive web design (RWD) and media queries based on CSS, HTML5, and Bootstrap Front-End Framework.  • Developed CSS classes for GUI web page controls and forms.  • Streamlined the Responsive Web Design to enhance the User Experience and developed designs for the prototypes for the Mobile UI.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development.  • Developed SPA (Single Page Applications) using AngularJS.  • Used jQuery to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request and also used jQuery events to manipulate the elements depending on the user interactions.  • Worked closely with back-end developers during integration phase to optimize performance.  • Worked extensively on design and development of UI, HTML, CSS, JQuery and Twitter Bootstarp.  • Worked with complete redesign of a daily events website and focused on improving readability, utility, and overall UX.  • Involved in writing the Properties, methods in the Class Modules and also consumed web services.  • Extensively used Firebug, Developer tools to debug and identify issues.  • Attended daily Scrum meetings.  • Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Google Analytics, Adobe Dreamweaver CS5, WordPress, Bootstrap, Ext JS, JSON, Eclipse, GitHub, Adobe Photoshop, Visio. Web/UI Developer Conoco Phillips - Bartlesville, OK September 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON  • Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive design and media queries.  • Used JQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Rapid prototyping of design concepts.  • Experience with jQuery.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules.  • UsedAgile methodology for the software development.  • Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  • Responsible for authoring of website functionality with JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces.    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, JSON, JQuery, XML, Apache. Skills Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Application server, C++, Html, Javascript, Angular.js, Json, Xml, Ui, Java, jquery, Jsp, Ajax, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Tomcat, Web sphere, Weblogic, Rational Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies: HTML 4.0/5, XHTML,DHTML, CSS2/CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, JSP and XML  Framework: JQuery, Angular.js,Backbone.js, D3 JS, UI Grid  IDE & Tools: MS Visual Studio for web, Dreamweaver, Eclipse2.x/3.x.,Netbean 6.5/7.0, CK Editor  Application Server: Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0,WebLogic Application Server, IBM Web Sphere  Languages: C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL,COBOL  Operating Systems: Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7/8,Linux, Mac OS  Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile, Rational Unified Process(RUP)  RDBMS: Oracle 9.x, MS Access  Debugger: Firebug, Debug Tool, Interest