Team Lead Team Lead Team Lead - IT Works Online Solutions Pvt. Ltd • More than 6 years of experience in complete development Life cycle (SDLC) -design, development testing and deployment of n-tier applications in PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL.  • Excellent Experience in Object oriented Programming.  • Performed variety of tasks including front-end development, back-end development, user experience design, visual design, and server setup and maintenance.  • Extensive experience in designing, developing and deploying dynamic websites on Windows as well as on Linux.  • A self-motivated professional and natural communicator possessing good technical, initiating, leadership and problem-solving skills and has proven to be a good team player.  • Good analytical and debugging skills. Work Experience Team Lead IT Works Online Solutions Pvt. Ltd 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Customer Interaction and requirement gathering.  • Planning and setting delivery goals and deadlines.  • Designing data model.  • Architecting the web application components.  • Coding in PHP (Laravel, CodeIgniter), JavaScript and HTML.  • Web Application and Bug fixing.  • Product Demo and Product deployment on cloud(Amazon Web Services)  • Development of Web Services APIs.  • Implementing AWS technologies.    Hives Online Solutions Pvt. Ltd2016 to 2017  Role: Team Lead  Responsibilities:  • Customer Interaction and requirement gathering.  • Planning and setting delivery goals and deadlines.  • Designing data model.  • Architecting the web application components.  • Coding in PHP, JavaScript and HTML.  • Web Application and Bug fixing.  • Product Demo and Product deployment on cloud(Amazon Web Services)  • Development of Web Services APIs.  • Mentorjunior members in the team.  • Guiding the team on using best design and coding practices.    Environment: PHP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AWS Web Developer Twarak InfoTech 2015 to 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing front end design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Involved in developing back end design using PHP, MySQL.  • As part of compatibility testing, executed the workflow manager web application related test cases on different browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome on different Operating Systems (Validation).    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP, MySQL, Windows 7, WordPress Web Developer Webdunia.com 2007 to 2009 Project Name: Multilingual Classifieds Portal  http://classifieds.webdunia.com/  The site is built with a WAMP stack (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and PHP). Several other modules for users are Post Ad, Search Ad, Manage Ads, Add Alerts, Save Favorites, Edit Profile, Change Password, Set default Language.  Played a major role in Planning, Designing (HTML), Programming (PHP), Validating (JavaScript with AJAX), Database Designing and maintenance (MySQL) and testing the website.    Project Name: Campaign Flow Management  The application is built with a WAMP stack (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and PHP).CFM is a role driven project which contains the automation of Banner management. It contains different roles of end users: Sales Support, Sales Executive, Sales Manager, Campaign Management, Accounts, Management and Super Admin. All roles have the different tasks and different rights to access the system.  Played a major role in Planning, Designing (HTML), Programming (PHP), Validating (JavaScript with AJAX), Database Designing and maintenance (oracle) and testing.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering and developing the use cases.  • Creating Design documents for web modules  • Developed web pages using PHP, HTML, MySQL, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Code Review and Quality assurance.  • Writing Stored Procedure (MySQL)  • Conducting team meetings and coordinating with site content team.  • Deployed on the production server and Implemented performance best practices to a web site.  • Used AJAX for rich user interface for rich internet applications    Environment: PHP, MySQL, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript Web Access 2005 to 2007 http://drupal.demo.civicrm.org/  The site is built with a LAMP stack (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP). CRM is a project to help relationship management for the nonprofit and nongovernmental sectors. CRM stores information of people associated with a nonprofit organization and on their interactions (emails, donations, petitions, events, etc.).  Nonprofits maintain relationships many types of constituents. They track and solicit donors, recruit volunteers, track clients, and maintain relationships with the public for advocacy purposes. CRM enables organizations to maintain all this information in a single database, creating efficiencies and new opportunities for nonprofits to better communicate and benefit from relationships with their constituents. Drupal is used as content management system (CMS).    Project Name: QuestBridge  The site is built with a WAMP stack (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and PHP).QuestBridge is a program that links bright, motivated low-income students with educational and scholarship opportunities at some of the nation's best colleges. Student applicants can fill out and complete a web based form via Brenner. This data will then be available to other Brenner users who will be reviewing and working with the data to filter the applicants, generate reports, and document contacts with applicants as needed.  Played a major role in Designing (HTML), Programming (PHP), Validating (JavaScript), Database Designing and maintenance (MySQL).  Role: Web Developer  Responsibilities:  • Played a major role in Drupal CMS Installation,  • Web Programming in PHP, JavaScript.  • Used SVN to check out and check in the code.  • Database Designing and maintenance (MySQL).  • Manual Testing  • Code Review  • Create, install and maintain server environments (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP)  • Full SDLC life cycle experience including requirements gathering, high level design, detailed design, data design, coding, testing, and creation of functional documentation.    Environment/Tools: Linux, PHP, Drupal, JavaScript, MySQL. Additional Information TECHNICALSKILLS:    Technologies and Languages PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, XML, Web analytics (Google ), AWS, Laravel, CodeIgniter    Content Management System WordPress, Drupal  RDBMS/Databases: MySQL, MsSQL  Version Control Systems SVN, Git, BitBucket  Defect Tracking Systems Jira