UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Staples Framingham, MA • Around 6 years of extensive experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML 5, CSS2/CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, jQuery, Angular, ReactJS, NodeJS, AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment.  • Experience in both Waterfall & Agile development methodologies  • Experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular 1.x/Angular2/Angular4 and ReactJS framework.  • Great knowledge in front-end architecture, including performance, accessibility and security, high quality code Scalability.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA.  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Good Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  • Worked on Angular JS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events and Injectors.  • Experience in applying the latest development approaches including Model-View-Control, event-driven applications using AngularJS, AJAX, Object-oriented JavaScript and JSON.  • Worked with npm commands and using package. Json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of NodeJS applications  • Cooperating with the back-end developer in the process of building the RESTful API  • Experience in using jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Worked with Gulp as the build task runner to build and package the application and Grunt as build tool for configuring tasks.  • Proficient in using jQuery extensively for event handling, DOM manipulation and cross-browser compatibility  • Proficient in dealing with CSS pre-processors namely LESS and SASS.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries (jQuery) and developing Rich Internet Applications (RIA).  • Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD),  • experience in creating test suites using JASMINE.  • Used Bootstrap for the responsive web design and used JavaScript and jQuery for form validations.  • Experience with front-end development with back-end system integration.  • Proficient in working in Test Driven Development (TDD) by writing test-cases in JUnit.  • Ability to collaborate with the team, including participating in design sessions, story grooming sessions, and code reviews.  • Demonstrated ability to complete projects in deadline-oriented environments. Quick learner and proficient in solving the technical issues in the project, and managing multiple tasks simultaneously Work Experience UI Developer Staples - Framingham, MA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with Business Analysts and Product team in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Worked with React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Experience working on Redux Uni-directional dataflow achieving the predictable application behaviour.  • Used ES6 and JSX with react for component development.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Added Dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  • Maintained STATES in the store and dispatched the ACTIONS using Redux.  • Worked closely with QA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform Compatibility.  • Used Saga Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Backend.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture, building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Used Redux to maintain state of react application. Used Redux-Thunk and Redux-Saga for asynchronous calls in the different applications  • Implemented stable React JS components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  • Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-base page layouts.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards.  • Utilized React and created efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable.  • Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Performed Unit testing with Jest.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, NODEJS, REACTJS, Redux, JQUERY, JIRA, AJAX, JSON, XML UI Web Developer General Insurance - Nashville, TN September 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Created a Single Page Applications using Angular  • Using Angular created Drag, Drop & Re-ordering the data in the tree.  • Implementing Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as customer performs application tasks  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation on the client side within the forms  • Using Angular created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Worked with ngrx/store for managing Angular applications.  • Designed Dynamic client-side Java-script codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 2  • Defined new validations through Angular for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Worked on managing the user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using NodeJS Gulp (Task Runner) and jQuery  • Worked with npm commands and using package. Json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of NodeJS applications  • Used Angular multiple in-built directives such as filters, root scope, scope, modal, template, state etc.  • Implemented MVC pattern with Angular and jQuery-validation and Extensive use of components registration in Knockout  • Used $http with Angular interceptors to make sure the requests were valid and used UI-router to handle nested views and avoid page redirection.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API and using modular based architecture provided by Angular.  • Used Angular to standardize web application structure and responsive using Bootstrap and provide a future template for data binding.  • Worked on managing the user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using NodeJS Gulp (Task Runner) and jQuery  • Actively used agile methodology to develop and complete the project within the sprint time.  • Created the multiple grids by inline editing capabilities and included pagination.  • Completed the stories within the sprint time.  • Create complex JIRA workflows including project workflows, screen schemes, permission scheme and notification schemes in JIRA  • Involved in enhancing the application for clients' requirement based on the market demand and updating the MVC pattern, Bootstrap, Angular & Web API.  • Worked on the unit test cases to test the functionality of the code written not only through the component level but also through the DOM level using Karma test runner and Jasmine framework  Environment: AngularJS 2.0, Node JS, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, JIRA. UI Web Developer Qikwell - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2013 to June 2016 Responsibilities  • Used front end web development tools HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular JS to design UI  • Used different Angular1.5 built in services for all data access, encapsulating URLs and Standardizing data Access interfaces  • Used AngularJS multiple in-built directives such as filters, root scope, scope, modal, template, state etc.  • Wrote various classes and methods for data retrieval while implementing Angular JS concepts.  • Created Angular1.5 components, implemented Interpolation, input variables, Bootstrapping, Router Outlet, binding the click event, Component decorator, binding to the hidden property  • Implemented JavaScript and jQuery for client-side validations  • Utilized various JQUERY plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server  • Developed navigation, dropdowns using Angular JS, jQuery and Bootstrap  • Implemented databinding and MVC using Angular JS for front-end development of a current web application.  • Used CSS to create grids and adopt cross browsing interactive feature  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using JQUERY UI Library.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JSON, jQuery and XML  • Used Firebug to debug JavaScript, to analyze DOM objects of the page and to change the page layout  • Widely used Optimization technique in existing code  Environment: XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, Backbone.js, Angular.JS, jQuery, jQuery Mobile JavaScript, JSON and AJAX UI developer Micro- core Solutions August 2012 to September 2013 Developed HTML landing pages and website content including text, graphics development, video, and interactive features delivering pixel perfect code from design deliverables.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation, and form validation.  ? Developed cross-browser/platform to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  ? Modified the existing website by adding suitable naming conventions and coding standards  ? Developed and implemented a dynamic image rendering web service which is consumed in the front end.  ? Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements etc.  ? Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Used Ajax effectively to create pagination and with client-side events like quick search.  ? Created Mockups and Wireframes for the development of variations of a layout to maintain design consistency throughout the site.  ? Used JQUERY plug-ins to implement features as a light box, sliders and other intuitive features.  ? Developed AJAX based web-based UI framework by utilizing JQUERY library.  ? Created optimized graphic websites and application interfaces using HTML and CSS  ? Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  ? Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.    Environment: HTML, XHTML CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery, AJAX. Education Bachelor's in computer science engineering in computer science engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Master's in information technology in information technology Valparaiso University Skills Visual studio, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Php, Svn, Xml, Ajax, Iis, Tomcat, Web services, Weblogic, Angularjs, Html5, Sass, Soap, Eclipse, Java, Jboss Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/usha-sri-909038190 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Technologies  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (ES6), jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Node JS PHP, , AJAX, JSON, XML, SASS, JS Build and Package management (Bower, Gulp, Grunt, NPM, etc.), RESTFUL SOAP Web Services.    Programming Languages C, Core Java  IDE and Graphic Tools Eclipse, Code-Blocks, NetBeans, Visual Studio, Sublime Text, , Fire Bug, Chrome Developer  Web/App. Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, IIS, WebLogic  Version Control GIT, SVN  Testing Unit Testing with Karma and Jasmine