Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - ZB Technologies, Inc Sylmar, CA Result-oriented Web Developer with the ability to execute high-performing technologies, and contribute to innovative,  groundbreaking solutions that meet business demand for agility, flexibility, mobility, and superb cloud experience. Knowledgeable  in software installation and maintenance. Focused communicator of complex technical concepts to professional and non-  professional audiences. Committed to working within client and project specifications to deliver cost-effective timely results.    CORE QUALIFICATIONS    • HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Python 3, Django  • Exceptional organization and presentation abilities  • Familiarity with MAC and Windows operating systems  • Vast knowledge of software development concepts  • Profound creative and analytical problem-solving and troubleshooting skills  • High verbal and written communication skills Work Experience Web Developer ZB Technologies, Inc August 2018 to Present Collaborated with company leadership, engineers, and data science team to execute the design and development of new  the company website.  • Gained valuable experience and in-depth knowledge of the startup community with a focus on data science and startup  company performance.  • Developed in-depth knowledge of cancer research and worked exclusively on the database which contained company  information and external cancer professionals. Web Developer Internship ZB Technologies, Inc June 2018 to August 2018 Utilized strong tech savvy knowledge in building the initial mockup for a responsive website and landing page for ZB  Technologies, Inc.  • Executed the testing, debugging, and development of the HelenHealth platform.  • Translated design team's UX wireframes and mockups into responsive, interactive features, using HTML/CSS. Automotive Technician Century West BMW September 2012 to August 2017 • Experienced with bumper to bumper repair and diagnosis for most models.  • Effectively communicated with service advisors and customers regarding repairs and upheld top quality workmanship  and excellent customer service.  • Experience with disassembling, assembling and replacing engines.  • Excel at electrical and computer diagnostics. Education B.S. in Computer Science Southern New Hampshire University 2015 to Present Automotive Engineering Technology Universal Technical Institute 2012 Skills HTML, Wordpress, Javascript