Drupal Developer Drupal <span class="hl">Developer</span> Drupal Developer - UCB, GA Atlanta, GA • 7+ years of experience in Web Application Development as a Web Application Developer in System Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation.  • Experience in PHP development with creation of websites and enterprise application using LAMP, PHP, Drupal, and WORDPRESS.  • 4 years designing, building & supporting complex DRUPAL web applications for large consumer focused websites. Used DRUPAL 7, 8  • Drupal Architect/ Developer with over 5+ years of experience working on migration and other web and API development projects.  • Proficient in building User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML/HTML5, XHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, React.js, AJAX, JSON, XML, Bootstrap and Foundation.  • Areas of expertise include object-oriented PHP, SQL SERVER, MYSQL (LAMP / WAMP stack), XAMPP, XML, Web service.  • Highly experienced with modern JS frameworks and libraries like AngularJS and jQuery.  • Experienced in solving issues in web browsers, following the W3C standards to maintain the website with defect free.  • Working experience on CSS background, CSS positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margins, CSS Padding, CSS Table, pseudo classes, pseudo elements.  • Extensive experience in design, analysis, development, Version Control and Production Support of full life cycle or SDLC experience, multi-tier, database and script-based in web-based & desktop applications.  • Created New Templates for the administrator areas with various options to be implemented using Drupal.  • Experience working with CSS compilers like SASS/SCSS. Used front-end tools like GULP/KOALA.  • Developed custom Drupal Theme to effectively address business requirements.  • Used SQL queries to update and retrieve needed information from the Database.  • Experienced in various IDEs like Eclipse, Notepad++, Sublime Text, and Microsoft Visual Studio.  • Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML and MVC Architecture and also have experience in using version control (GIT).  • Experience on developing which also includes web services like Web, REST, RESTFUL API'S etc. with the help of WSDL, SOAP and JAX-WS, MongoDB and AWS to get updates from the third parties.  • Experience in developing Ext-JS components like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, and Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Passionate to create an excellent work environment through coordination and co-operation with the team members and other departments  • Designed and developed relational database systems and Client/Server applications.  • Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc.  • Excellent troubleshooting, debugging and problem-solving skills for technical issue.  • Specialties in Accessible Web design and development, W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines.  • Creative Knowledge in Art creation, modification and conversion- Logos, print media, web page and software interface design using Photoshop, Adobe Flash and Illustrator.  • Strong Analytical, Problem Solving and debugging skills with excellent understanding of system development metrics, techniques and tools.  • Good communication skills, Interpersonal skills and strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members. Work Experience Drupal Developer UCB, GA April 2019 to Present Description: UCB is a global biopharmaceutical company which focuses primarily on research and development, specifically involving medications centered on Epilepsy, Parkinson's, and Crohn's diseases.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on migrating non Drupal website to Drupal 8.  • Developed websites including: Content types, Views, Layouts and other functional requirements.  • Worked on an open-source CMS to build website using Drupal 8.  • Developed interactive carousels using Slick.  • Created reusable components for use within similar websites under the umbrella including reusable templates for Layout Builder.  • Implemented ZURB Foundation 6 in developing UI.  • Extensively worked on efficient Drupal websites and Drupal development technologies such as Composer, Drush and Layout Builder.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing responsive User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Used PHPMYADMIN for MySQL connectivity and management.  • Maintain and improve website design and development.  • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved related issues before migration to production.    Environment: MS Azure, OpenShift, JavaScript, HTML5/CSS3, SQL, MySQL, XAMPP JQuery, Apache web server, Windows, Firefox developer tools. Drupal Developer Verizon, NJ March 2018 to March 2019 Description: Verizon is an American broadband and Telecommunications Company, the largest U.S. wireless communication service provider as of September 2014.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Drupal-based website and maintained sites including: Content types, Views and other functional requirements.  • Worked on Web Form Security for Forms authentication of user's registration.  • Designed forms and user interfaces for administrator, supervisor and employee using Drupal and CSS.  • Created DRUPAL modules for quick approvals, billing and pay rates, custom reporting and payroll Integration.  • Involved in implementing MVC architecture to segregate business logic from the view using OOP in PHP 5.  • Created report generator that queried the MYSQL database for user-specified information.  • Used AngularJS including authoring complex directives, services, controllers, and filters.  • Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using Angular.JS.  • Implemented Bootstrap in developing UI.  • Deployed the application software on the Linux Server via Juniper router configuration.  • Used JQuery to make the HTML5, DHTML and CSS3 to interact with the JavaScript functions. Created pages in Mock-ups and validated the HTML code with W3C Validator. Involved in fixing Front-End issues with the layouts.    Environment: PHP5, JavaScript, Zend Framework, HTML5/CSS3, Angular.JS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Apache web server, LINUX Drupal Developer Wal-Mart, CA April 2016 to February 2018 Description: Wal-Mart Inc. is an American multinational retail corporation that operates a chain of hypermarkets, discount department stores, and grocery stores. The Company also operates an e-commerce Website (www.walmart.com).    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing and implementing new features and functionality.  • Working with multiple Drupal sites for Wal-mart.com  • Enhanced the current Drupal Site with custom and contributed modules using agile methodology.  • Work closely with front-end developers to ensure an affective, visually appealing, functional and intuitive implementation.  • Created REST services to export Drupal data in a JSON format varnish ESI calls.  • Configured Varnish for caching.  • Using JIRA to track all the new tasks, issues and the backlogs.  • Use the Drush commands extensively for the development and deployment.  • Used PHPMYADMIN for MySQL connectivity and management.  • Maintain and improve website design and development.  • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production.  • Maintained and supported existing applications built on the Drupal platform ensuring site availability.  • Support for all Drupal Sites when there's any Drupal Core Security Updates.    Environment: PHP5, Drupal 7/8, JavaScript, HTML5/CSS3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Apache web server, REST API. Drupal Developer TVGla, CA October 2015 to March 2016 Description: TVGla is a digital marketing agency that connects people and brands moving at the speed of culture. It channels emerging innovations and ideas across categories, technologies and platforms to create consumer centered experiences that are infectiously social. TVGla fuels participation through its expertise in entertainment and play to unlock creativity, self-expression and sharing.  Responsibilities:  • Developed fully functional, cross browser compatible websites on DRUPAL platform utilizing Agile and Scrum methodologies.  • Worked as a part of team on a series of Drupal sites (D8), which included custom panels, blocks, content types, and views that allow every user to customize the look of their site.  • Created Drupal modules for Active log sessions and Service Reporting System.  • Maintained groups of multiple users with Drupal CMS.  • Worked heavily on DRUPAL CMS development and developed various custom modules.  • Site content migration from Drupal 6 to Drupal 7 and Drupal 8.  • Implemented dashboard enhancements to the Verified website using PHP, LARAVEL Framework, JQuery and HTML5.  • Worked with design patterns like singleton pattern and registry pattern in Symphony web application framework as well as Model-View-Control (MVC) pattern in ZEND framework.  • Worked on front-end to make web pages more dynamic via AJAX and JQUERY.  • Designed layouts using HTML, CSS, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Used Angular.JS MVC architecture to split the UI logic into Views, Models and Collections.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, Angular.JS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  • Used Angular.JS for heavy DOM manipulation and Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, and JQUERY.  • Used Bootstrap for designing web pages to get responsive designs.  • Deployed application software on Linux Server with Juniper router configuration.  • Used all aspects of MySQL/PHP Programming (object-oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment.  • Developed PHP based server side API using Zend framework and implemented MVC architecture.  • Experience on digital-media consulting with adobe Photoshop, macromedia freehand.  • Created Client-Side UI with object- oriented JavaScript and AJAX with API.  • Parsing the JSON requests and responses by creating reports from child data.  • Used JavaScript and JQUERY for user interactivity for making the websites dynamic.    Environment: Drupal 7/8, REST API, OAuth, PHP 5, HTML 5, XHTML, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, MySQL, Windows, Apache, LAMP stack, MVC Frame Work, jQuery. Web Developer Tech park solutions - IN July 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed/Design the application using LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) architecture Communicated with client to fetch requirement and analyse requirement for developing functionality accordingly.  • Integrated existing Word Press modules as well as created custom themes, modules, views, functions and hooks.  • Provided access to authenticated as well as anonymous as authenticated users to create blogs, post comments in Word Press.  • Developed LARAVEL application for managing Google analytics test.  • Used ZEND-Debugger for the error resolutions.  • Building the website from scratch in APTANA.  • Implemented Bootstrap in developing UI.  • Conceived and designed database tables in MYSQL.  • Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using UI and MVC architecture.  • Extensively worked with JQuery UI for Effects.  • Designed theme using HTML /XHTML, CSS.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while following code standards  • Used phpMyAdmin to handle the administration of MYSQL over the World Wide Web.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX etc.  • Tracked and fixed bugs that were found during various phases of developments.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style mark-up presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Created the screens with table-less designs emphasizing W3C standards.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, CSS floats, cross browser compatibility and CSS behaviours in CSS.    Environment: PHP5, JavaScript, Zend Framework, HTML5/CSS3, Angular.JS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Apache web server, LINUX. Web Developer Global Tech Inc November 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and documented all UI components for the application in accordance with business requirements using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax.  • Performed full life-cycle development, planning and integration of web-based software solution using PHP, Word Press, JavaScript, java, AJAX, and MySQL.  • Daily content change migrations as per Business requirement, such as creating forms, updating the existing forms to accept improvised validations.  • Worked on page load optimization, unit testing and implemented SEO.  • Built AJAX pages using PHP and created various asynchronous web applications.  • Integrating user-facing elements by front-end developers.  • Involved in setting up and maintaining Word Press servers.  • Worked on building custom Word Press plugins.  • Involved in developing Word Press themes and plugins.  • Worked on Linux Environment and familiar with VI editor and file operations in Linux.  • Good knowledge in REST APIs and their integration to Word Press.  • Installed and worked with Subversion for versioning control.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, PHP, Servlets, AJAX, JSON, XML, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools. Education Masters in Systems Management in Systems Management Stony Brook University 2016 Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Gujarat Technological University 2011 Skills Visual studio, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Php, Svn, Xml, Angularjs, Html5, Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Eclipse, Java, jquery, Ajax, Lamp Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages PHP, Java, JavaScript  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap  Database MySQL, Microsoft SQL SERVER  IDEs worked on: Visual Studio, Eclipse IDE, PhpStorm  CMS/Frameworks: Drupal7/8, Word press, XAMPP, LAMP/WAMP stack.  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN  Source code Editors Sublime Text, Notepad++  Browser All (IE, Firefox, Opera, Chrome, Safari)