Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - Sherwin Williams Cleveland, OH • Having 6+ years of IT experience in the Salesforce.com platform as Developer and Administrator experience in all the phases of SDLC (Analysis, Design, Development, Administration, Testing, Implementation and Support) in various software Applications using Salesforce (CRM)  • Experience in designing, developing, deploying and integrating of Salesforce CRM using Lightning Components, Apex, Triggers and Visual Force pages on Force.com platform.  • Proficiency in SFDC development using Apex Classes, Apex triggers and Visual Force Pages, VF Components Custom Controllers, Controller extensions, SOQL, SOSL, and deployment of change sets from sandbox to production environment.  • Experience in customizing Standard objects, Custom Objects, Custom Fields, Custom Tabs, Validation rules, Page Layouts, Search Layouts, Profiles, Roles, Permission Sets and Organization Wide Defaults.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis / Design / Development / Testing and Implementation, Client/Server Architecture  • Implementation experience of Salesforce.com applications like the Sales, Marketing and Service, Community Cloud and Support Modules.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, and opportunities, Products, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  • Designed Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation per application requirements.  • Extensive experience of using declarative features like validation rules, workflows, approval process, dynamic approval process, sharing rules automation for satisfying complex business process automations.  • Skilled in working with process automations such as Workflow rules, Process Builders, Batch Processes, Scheduled Apex, Approval Processes to meet the user requirement and functionality.  • Experience with Case auto-assignment, Case email auto-response, Case escalation rules & queues, Case management and history tracking, Case team collaboration and Console Customization.  • Expertise in SFDC development using the APEX classes, Triggers, Test classes, Visual Force pages, Batch Apex, Reports & Dashboards, SOAP API, REST API, Force.com IDE, Eclipse with SOQL, SOSL and Force.com plug-in.  • Creating and enabling Lightning Components to call Aura Enabled apex classes.  • Strong business knowledge in both Sales cloud and Service Cloud including but not limited to Service Console, Customer Portal & Communities, Case Feed, Knowledge Base and Entitlements.  • Experience in bulk data migration from Excel, MS outlook and Legacy Systems to Salesforce.com using Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard.  • Good Working knowledge on web 3.0 technologies like JavaScript, JQuery, Angular Js , HTML5 and CSS 3.0  • Experience in Data import and Export using Data Import Wizard and Data Loader and Workbench. Developed Custom reports and Dashboards to continuously monitor data quality.  • Experienced in working MVC Architecture and in using Version Control (GIT).  • Experienced in application integration using Web Services such as JAX-WS, JAX-RS, SOAP, WSDL, and Restful.  • Well versed in cloud computing and on-premise infrastructure integration for Salesforce.com using Force.com platform, Batch Apex, Web Services with third party applications.  • Team player with the ability to work effectively with all levels of the organization; Excellent Analytical, De-bugging and Documentation skills. Work Experience Salesforce Developer Sherwin Williams - Cleveland, OH July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various activities of the project, like information gathering, analyzing the information, documenting the functional and non-functional requirements.  • SFDC Configurations/Customizations - User Interface, Page Layouts, Tabs, Custom fields, Custom objects, Validation Rules, Triggers, etc.  • Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, VisualForce pages and their respective apex test classes for company wide sales quoting operations  • Personally exploring Sales force Lightning app builder which enhances UI and drag and drop app building and good knowledge in Aura Application.  • Created a user interface in Lightning using Aura components, CSS, Bootstrap for a user to enter case details and submit in to Salesforce.  • Used Salesforce Lightning Inspector to debug the lightning components during the development process.  • Experience in building Lightning components and applications using Lighting App Builder.  • Deployed code changes into production and multiple sandboxes using Change Sets, Eclipse IDE, ANT migration tools.  • Working knowledge in generating Reports, Dashboards, customized reports and analyzing the data in Salesforce.  • Data Load for SFDC Standard objects and Custom objects  • Prepared custom objects and reports using sales force Lightning Experience.  • Worked with Integration and web services. Integrated Salesforce with legacy systems using Apex Web services and outbound messaging.  • Created new Custom Objects, Custom Fields, Custom Tabs, Components, Custom Reports, Profiles, Roles, and Sharing Settings with implementation of record level and field level security.  • Used SOQL & SOSL queries to work on data migration from databases to SFDC using Data Loader, Workbench, Dataloader.io and Jitterbit.  • Used Process Builder, Workflow Rules, Page Layouts, Approval Process, Tasks, Email Alerts, Field Updates and Outbound Messages to streamline business logic created to manage the Workflow & Approvals.  • Created Reports and Dashboards as per the customer requirements.  Environment: Saleforce.com, Force.com Explorer, Apex Triggers, Visualforce Pages & Apex Controllers, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services Salesforce Developer/ Administrator Bank of America - Charlotte, NC January 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Documented and shared the requirements with SalesForce.com consultants for further implementation.  • Closely worked with SalesForce.com consultants while implementing the solutions for the needs of organization.  • Created new custom objects, assigned fields, designed page layouts, components as needed to meet design specifications.  • Configured different roles, profiles and accounts in Salesforce.com  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Opportunities, Activities, and Dashboards.  • Customized the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL relationship queries for query optimization and not to hit governor limitations.  • Configuring fields, workflow, reports, templates  • Performed day to day salesforce.com operations bulk data migration, user management, Object and Field Customization.  • Perform Salesforce customization that can be handled by System Administrator.  • Maintained the client relationship by communicating the daily statuses and weekly statuses of the project.  • Implemented Single Sign-On with SAML on force.com  • Planned Backup strategy based on projects requirements.  • Worked with DTS packages and MSOLAP Services.  • Maintained the consistency of the client's Database using DBCC.  • Freezing of requirements based on Business team inputs, detailed analysis of the application in collaboration with the client Business team.  • Preparing Data Model and get it reviews with client technical architects.  • Involved in BSR (Business System Requirements) meetings and requirements specifications, documenting the functional and non-functional requirements and was part of designing key solutions needed for project's progress.  • Implementing the security and sharing rules.  • Hands on experience on Batch/Real Time Data migration tasks.  • Defining Validation rules, Work flows and Approval process based on the client requirements.  • By using Apex Data Loader importing data into Salesforce cloud.  • Interacting with the Client team and resolving the issues.  Environment: Apex, Visual force, Apex Classes, Apex triggers, Visual force, Pages, Batch Apex, Schedule Apex, Workflows and Approvals, Data Warehousing, Case Management, Automation, Sandbox testing, SalesForce.com Platform, S-Controls, Salesforce.com Custom Objects, HTML, Java Script, Workflows, Reports, Force.com Eclipse Plug-in, SalesForce.com sandbox. MS SQLServer2000, MS Access, Query Analyzer, DTS, BCP, SQL Profiler, Import & Export Data, Windows 2000 Server. Salesforce Developer Wind Stream Communication - Little Rock, AR October 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application. Migrated data from external sources and performed insert, delete, upsert, export operations on millions of records.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail.  • Implemented Salesforce Development Cycle covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call Center, Chatter & App-exchange applications.  • Made new feature enhancements on Service cloud console view and developed some Visual force components.  • Worked on the community cloud to connect with the customers, partners and employees for the data work that to be done.  • Prepared reports and dashboards and analytical snapshots for executive levels as well as manager levels.  • Customized User Roles, Role hierarchies, Profiles and Sharing settings to ensure that the protected data is available only to the authorized users.  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Implemented Sales cloud and incorporated the enhanced features as required to streamline the business process.  • Implemented Salesforce Service cloud and Opportunity Management (Case management, Entitlement management, Product & price book, High volume customer portal, Partner portal, Visual force sites) for business support and technical support for its channel customers.  • Designed and developed Service cloud and integration.  • Implemented Data Loader through the Command Line Interface to extract the data from database.  • Configured Chatter for the Users in the Organization for collaboration.  • Extensively involved in Data Migration from three legacy systems to Salesforce.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Conducted training sessions to the UAT users to use the Salesforce Knowledge application and developed a feedback custom report.  • Supported end users and helped them in getting used to the application, generated reports and saved them for further access to the users.  Environment: Saleforce.com, Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Triggers, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page layouts, Email Services, SOQL, SOSL, Sandbox, Force.com IDE. Web developer/ Salesforce Developer Weidbee Software - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on optimizing the existing features as well as building new features.  • Worked on cross-browser capabilities and coding techniques.  • Experience in Applications using Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON.  • Developed OOP design principles, HTML, JavaScript and MySQL.  • Involved in entire life cycle of Salesforce implementation including Business requirements gathering, Documenting Functional and Non-Functional requirements, analyzing and proposing business process compliant solutions.  • Quick at responding to issues and delivering them in time. Built modules that can be responsive to different breakpoints.  • Expert in develop responsive web pages for different devices like Mobile, Tablet, Desktop using RWD and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Participated designing database structure.  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Developed Reports, dashboards, and processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity.  • Created Reports and dashboards for each geography within service lines based on necessary analytics.  • Designed the User group and Role hierarchy tree.  • Developed and deployed intricate workflows and approval processes relating to all recruiting activities - Record status Alerts, Email alerts, High priority approvals, Task delegation, time based Workflow triggers, Workload queues.  • Simulating and Debugging possible Data migration and Integration issues; creating ER diagrams.  • Responsible for implementing security and sharing Rules at Object, Field, and Record level for different users at different levels of organization.  • Also created various Profiles and configured Permissions/Settings based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules and custom formulas  Environment: Java Script, HTML, jQuery, XHTML, XML, XSL, SQL Server and Windows XP Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading. Web developer Winstone Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Redesigned the existing site and to create new interfaces.  • Involved in extensive HTML coding and developed web forms.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript and CSS.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Worked closely with the programmers and graphic designers for project requirement and analysis.  • Produced GUI prototypes for business logic presentations.  • Built responsive site mockups with HTML, CSS, and SASS.  • Used API's to build small web applications.  • Participated in bug thrashing sessions to discuss and resolve bugs with developers.  Environment: HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, XML, MS SQL, Adobe Photoshop. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru University Skills Sql server, Sql server 2008, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Apex, .net, Visual studio, C++, Exchange, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Visio, Xml, Nosql, Force.com Links http://Salesforce.com