Freelance Graphic Designer/ Web Developer Freelance Graphic Designer/<span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Graphic Designer/ Web - 730wavy.com Kissimmee, FL My goal is to join a company creating websites and graphics, that allows me to work remotely. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Graphic Designer/ Web Developer Self September 2011 to Present 8 years' experience developing, implementing, and managing complex projects within time and budgetary constraints. Web Developer Paul Jones Blog July 2019 to July 2019 Created a minimalistic blog website for the client using wordpress. Web Developer/Designer PushxArt July 2019 to July 2019 Client came to me for a website for an e-commerce store. I created a site on Wordpress for them using woocommerce and stripe gateway. Web Developer Truelistings May 2018 to March 2019 Client wanted a real estate site similar to Zillow except users can create video listings using a simple form. Site has e-commerce as well. Graphic Designer/ Web Developer Artist - Ratxhet September 2018 to December 2018 The client is a hip hop artist that needed branding. I created the logo in illustrator and designed it based off his  artist name. I also created a website for his music. Copy and Print Associate Staples April 2013 to March 2015 Take in orders and Process accurately.  Produce orders and ensure error free while providing timely turnaround for all copy and print orders. Web Developer Grace And Elle October 2012 to December 2012 Client had an existing site on Shopify that needed to be updated and features added. Web Developer About Law Website February 2012 to October 2012 Website for lawyers and people that need lawyers. The designs were provided by mock ups and I coded the site from start to finish using Wordpress. Links http://730wavy.com Additional Information HTML5; XHTML; CSS3; JavaScript; jQuery; PHP; SQL; UI/UX; Responsive Design; Bootstrap; Adobe Creative Cloud; WordPress; Google Analytics; AJAX; CMS Tools; Windows; Bootstrap; Sql; Illustrator; Photoshop; Typography;