Sr UI Developer Sr UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr UI Developer - sling TV Denver, CO Over 6 years of extensive experience as a Front-End UI Developer with solid understanding of database designing, development and installation of different modules in Java. Work Experience Sr UI Developer sling TV January 2018 to Present Sling TV, is an American over-the-top internet television service owned by Dish Network. Unveiled on January 5, 2015, at the Consumer Electronics Show, the virtual multichannel video programming distributor aims to complement subscription video on demand services for cord cutters, offering a selection of major cable channels and OTT-originated services that can be streamed through smart TVs, digital media players and apps. The service is available in the United States and Puerto Rico as of 2015.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  ? Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  ? Built AEM components in React and Java script.  ? Developing custom page content components for web pages in AEM 6.4.  ? Worked and involved in migration (Implementation and Delivery) of existing websites to AEM 6.4.  ? Involving in development of User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, HTL Slightly JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  ? Used D3.js library for producing dynamic, interactive data visualizations in web browsers.  ? Designed Frontend for Administration Portal with in object-oriented JavaScript Framework like react.js and Node.js.  ? Used Next JS for server side rendering for superior performance on slow devices.  ? Implementing React components into our existing Angular App and complete the whole transition.  ? Worked on Virtual DOM creating an in-memory data structure cache, computed the results and updated the browser's displayed DOM efficiently using ReactJS.  ? Developed the Single Page Application (SPA) using ReactJS, Redux.  ? Architecting an Angular 1.5/2.0 hybrid using Typescript and Component Design.  ? Implemented Responsive web Design to the Administration Portal using Bootstrap.  ? Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Integrated D3.js reporting component for statistical information display.  ? Used D3.js for manipulating documents based on data and bringing data to life using HTML, SVG and CSS.  ? Setup framework for all current and future front-end projects to use backbone.js, vue.js, require.js and jasmine for framework, organized module definitions and unit tests.  ? Created Images, Logos &Icons used across web pages using Adobe Flash & Photoshop.  ? Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using angular.js, react.js and node.js.  ? Implemented Events, Forms and Animations using React.js and Redux  ? Wrote client Side code using React JS and used NPM & gulp directories to generate the server environments used browser, flux to manage with targeted URL's (Uni-Directional data flows) and to monitor the application.  ? Experienced in Responsive Web Design technology with or without framework like Bootstrap.  ? Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 &JavaScript using Dreamweaver.  ? Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  ? Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  ? Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  ? Implemented view part by ECMAScript 6 with React framework, designed web  pages by React-Bootstrap, SCSS and controlled state of the application by using Redux.  ? Designed the User Interface using use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams as a part of Design Phase using Rational Rose.  ? Experienced working with Maven for Project Dependency and Optimization.  ? Experienced working with Jenkins for Continuous Integration (CI) of the project.  ? Extensively worked with making calls to REST APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  ? Manipulated DOM to update UI using react.js and Redux.  ? Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  ? Used Agile methodology for cross-functional team collaboration.  ? Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, CSS optimization, and ADA compliance support.    Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ECMAScript 6, DHTML, MVC, DOM, JSON, React.js, Redux, Bootstrap, Node.js, JSP, AJAX, Spring REST, Jenkins, Maven, Jasmine, XML, XPATH, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, PLSQL, backbone.js, vue.js, require.js, Maven, Agile, Docker. Sr UI Developer Toys R Us, New Jersey December 2016 to December 2017 Toys"R"Us, Inc. is the world's leading dedicated toy and baby products retailer, offering a differentiated shopping experience through its family of brands. With its strong portfolio of e-commerce sites including Toysrus.com and Babiesrus.com, it provides shoppers with a broad online selection of distinctive toy and baby products.  The scope of the project was to enhance the functional modules of the website by rewriting the non-responsive modules to completely responsive by implementing React.js, Redux, Scss    Responsibilities:  ? Executed user interface designs from product requirements and J Query UI specification  ? Developed Web Pages by using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript and using JavaScript frameworks such as Ext JS, Angular 4 and bootstrap.js.  ? Responsible for converting designed mock-ups to HTML pages using HTML5, CSS3, and jQuery (VMF).  ? Used AngularJS as JavaScript framework and deployed angular files in NodeJS.  ? Wrote restful services on the server in NodeJS to listen to requests from devices.  ? Created a API backend using Node.js  ? Established pages using CSS3 to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  ? Worked with AJAX data consisting of JSON/XML/JSONP responses, parsing the same and presenting on the UI layer.  ? Refactored, re-architected, and enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVVM/MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance.  ? Involved in Designing user consoles, peripheral display entity, unique mechanism management and support linkage using HTML/XHTML, jQuery, EXT JS and JavaScript for the front end.  ? Worked with JSP in rendering the data from server side on to the client side.  ? Heavily involved with developing the design documents, mock-ups, functional specifications and final implementation in fetching and loading data into UI widgets.  ? Worked on various mobile frameworks like jQuery mobile.  ? Responsible for designing mobile applications.  ? Involved in Integration of react JS with Angular JS in the application.  ? Worked on core java multi-threading concepts to develop different thread classes.  ? Used concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism and encapsulation which are core java concepts.  ? Used Angular Error Handling, and state management.  ? Developed dynamic user interfaces for high-volume Web and Mobile web sites using the latest in Responsive Web Design techniques.  ? Accomplished W3C standards validation for HTML and CSS code on all the web pages of the application.  ? Skills in optimizing websites for mobile phones using CSS media queries.  ? Working and developing PHP templates to reuse it as per requirement.  ? Developed Table less layouts to narrow cross browser issues, making sure that the look and texture of the UI design works same in different versions of various browsers (IE, Firefox, Google chrome, Safari).  ? Involved in new feature development for the Android version.  ? Worked on the Oracle web logic server basically with JAVA as the backend and using Ext JS for the front-end activities.  ? Used scrum Methodology for managing knowledge work, with an emphasis on software development.  ? Heavily involved in the defect fixing and additional development activities - coordinating with the SQA team for the complete approval in UAT. Developed unit test, site pages and assist implementation of client web site.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, JSP, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Google Chrome, Safari, Explorer, Git, Scrum Methodology. Web UI Developer General Dynamics Information Technology - Towson, MD June 2015 to December 2016 Description: STARS Informant is an advanced data analysis tool expressly designed for user-controlled exploration of healthcare data to discover potential fraud, waste and abuse (FWA) and to enable users to track down and isolate questionable billing/payment patterns. The STARS Informant data warehouse can be configured to house multiple combinations of professional, institutional, dental, and pharmacy claims.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed company's identity elements and propagated them across all media  ? Authored and created marketing materials and business-to-business presentations Establish, influence, and implement corporate-wide visual principles and requirements Create, maintain and direct the overall design elements of corporate media, projects and products.  ? Review UI design flow-charts, suggest alternative UIs, create & distribute interactive proof-of-concept UI components for team review.  ? Develop concepts for the user interface of web products, and marketing and sales related projects.  ? Designed web site mockups, navigation buttons, etc using Adobe Photoshop.  ? Design and implementation of XHTML templates for server driven content, Implementation of CSS-based layouts and styles.  ? Created layout for the web pages using JavaScript and dynamic CSS.  ? Written Ajax, DHTML, and XHTML for most of the web pages.  ? Wrote CSS compatible for IE and Firefox browsers.  ? Design and implementation of various interactive elements of including AJAX search using JSON, JSP and Servlet.  ? Involved in Mobile Wallet Library Technical specification development and deployment on ANDROID devices.  ? Developed applications for mobile devices using JSP, Procmail, XHTML, and CSS.  ? Executed approved design, developing both applications with JSP, JavaScript, and HTML, generating reports with SQL, PL/SQL, and HTML/JSP/JavaScript, MS Query/MS Excel or Oracle Reports, managed all QA processes and transition plans.  ? Re-Designed the NPM flow over Interface module, which gathers data from upstream and send it down to the UI using Java, XML and Castor XML Parsing Framework. Resulted in 100 times performance improvement.  ? Implemented the build script for subprojects, creating war using ANT.  ? Used Logging API (Log4j) for logging purpose in Testing Web Application.  ? Used Subversion SVN for CVS.  ? Deployed Applications (WAR, JAR, and EAR) in Domain and Clustered environment.    Environment: JavaScript, CSS, XHTML, DHTML, JSP, Java , Servlet, Ajax, Photoshop, Edit plus, W3c Validator, windows, Tomcat, Unix, Linux, Oracle, XML, XSLT, JUnit. Java UI/ Web Developer JPMorgan Chase - New York, NY July 2014 to May 2015 Description: Money Movement Services is a central processing hub for COL and CSR Users' P&T functionality. It exposes web services and implements batch processes that enable the maintenance of the customer's Payees, Payments and processing of the Payments.    Responsibilities:  ? Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  ? Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Designed the front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  ? Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  ? Wrote JQUERY function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application).  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  ? Interacted with java controllers (JQUERY, Ajax, JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  ? Used SVN for version control and QC for defect tracking.  ? Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  ? Worked on Product Portfolio Management (PPM) System in Struts 1.5 and Hibernate 3.  ? Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  ? Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML, CSS2, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, SVN.Q, QC, Struts and Hibernate. Web Developer Birla Soft - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to May 2014 Description: EReporting is a J2EE application, integration with the Sun Life Employer Portal and hosted as a WebSphere application. The application provides an integrated Business Intelligence Tool Suite for standard reporting and OLAP analysis. It also facilitates report collection, scheduling, and single sign-on security link/integration with the Sun Life portal. Delivery and notification options, multi-browser support, scalability to add products and functionality affording business community with the ability to develop new reports as and when needed    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed various Web forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Coding site in HTML, XML, CSS, Flash, PHP/MySQL and JavaScript.  ? Used C++ for embedded systems.  ? Involved in Web design and development for the UI interface design, graphic design for printed materials and presentations, illustration, logo design. Used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Used Chrome developer tools like fire bug to debug bugs.  ? Contributed in decision making of the software and hardware requirements and tool evaluations.  ? Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units    Environment: HTML, DHTML, AJAX, Eclipse, JavaScript, CSS, Dreamweaver, JSON. Skills DOCKER, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS