Sr. Angularjs / Full Stack Developer Sr. Angularjs / Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Angularjs / Full Stack Developer - Visa Austin, TX ? 8+years of professional experience in Object Oriented programming, requirement gathering, planning, analysis, design, developing, testing and maintenance of Web Applications.  ? Experienced in designing and implementing various web applications in LAMP Server (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP), WAMP Server (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and PHP).  ? Experience in designing responsive web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Bootstrap Library.  ? Experienced using MVC frameworks such as Zend, Laravel, Symfony, Code Igniter, and Cake PHP.  ? Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in both LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP) and WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, PHP) Environments.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using PHP 5.x, MySQL, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX Technology.  ? Extensively used the backbone.js, Angular.js, Angular2, react js frame works, JSON and JavaScript frameworks jQuery.  ? Hands on experience in Integrated Development like Dreamweaver, Eclipse and Microsoft Visual Studio.  ? Designed responsive pages for CMS like WordPress, Woo Commerce and Drupal. OS Commerce and Moodle also worked on MVC framework (Codeigniter, Cake PHP).  ? Strong knowledge in Front-end frameworks like AngularJS, React and VueJs.  ? Maintained Cross Browser compatibility& implement Responsive Design.  ? Developed front end validation plugins to reduce load on the backend.  ? Knowledge in Mean Stack (Mongo DB, Express js, Angular Js, Node Js).  ? Expert in developing websites with Object Oriented PHP, MySQL and PHP MyAdmin.  ? Experience with PHP MVC (Model, View, and Controller) frameworks like Laravel, Symfony and Cake PHP.  ? Extensive knowledge in WordPress site installation, configuration and plugin development.  ? Solid experience in Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) design, programming, normalization and security administration.  ? Experience with integrated development environment Eclipse and worked on IBM tools - Rational Application Developer (RAD) tool and Message broker toolkit.  ? Experienced in developing websites using HTML 4.0/5.0, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and JSON.  ? Experienced in developing event driven applications using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Incorporated the table less design methodology using CSS3 that follows W3C standards.  ? Expert in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts.  ? Worked on GIT, SVN and CVS version controls.  ? Implemented and optimized database operations with high security standards.  ? Hands on experience on MongoDB and PostgreSQL.  ? Expert in working on both Front-End environment and Back-End environment (Full Stack Web Development).  ? Experienced with PHPUnit and Seleniumtesting.  ? Having good knowledge on Apache Aurora.  ? Gained Knowledge on Deploying app using AWS Cloud Formation.  ? Commitment to achieving corporate goals. Able to establish priorities and adapt quickly to Changing needs. Work Experience Sr. Angularjs / Full Stack Developer Visa - Austin, TX September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developing PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS ecommerce application pages according to project requirements.  ? Responsible for developing UI pages using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  ? Developed responsive web pages for smart devices using Bootstrap and media queries.  ? Used AngularJS as framework to create Single Page Applications which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  ? Worked on creating log-in authentication modules using AngularJS and JavaScript.  ? Extensively worked on custom directives with Pop-over and Pop-up functionalities with specific requirements matched to the conditions.  ? Used UI Router to create different hierarchy structure in single page application.  ? Created custom directives and filters using AngularJS built-in $http service from controller through dependency injection.  ? Created Angular service and integration with RESTful APIs.  ? Used Angular $http to send GET/POST request to fetch data from server.  ? Used open source library like Angular material to create customized components.  ? Supported Single Page Applications when client changed his query condition using AngularJS which includes Routing, Directives, and Templates.  ? Utilized AngularJS to achieve the client-side elements Hide, Show, Event Handling and AJAX Call on JSON response, and implemented Angular's jqLite to achieve SOM manipulation.  ? Handled Cross Browser Compatibility Issues and Unified CSS Layout across various browsers and platforms such as Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome and Opera.  ? Utilized AngularJS UI-Route for managing the State Transition and URL route.  ? Utilized AngularJS dependency injection to inject different services just like custom service, and create some custom directives to do some reusable component.  ? Utilized the Node.js and Express.js to do the relevant backend RESTful API.  ? Used all features of MySQL/PHP Programming, Symfony 3 framework in LAMP environment.  ? Created Drupal modules and the extended modules as needed  ? Experience working with APIs, integrating with external web services including REST, XML or JSON  ? Analyzing both fusion charts and D3js for my application which is an enterprise level application and a commercial one. We are actually using fusion charts and have invested a substantial amount on licensing of fusion charts.  ? Designed and developed the login portal using framework Angular 2along with HTML5, CSS3 and Type Script.  ? Developed various sections using AngularJS, ReactJS, HTML, CSS, Velocity, Ajax, Json and Spring web service  ? Worked in an SVN/GIT managed environment.  ? Extensively used Debugging JavaScript using Chrome developer Toolbar, Firebug  ? Developer responsive interface using Bootstrap and used SASS for CSS.  ? Worked on HTML5/CSS and jQuery in a Drupal based CMS environment  ? Worked on analysis, design, development and implementation of web applications using PHP, Zend Framework, Oracle and MySQL  ? Heavily used HTML5 and CSS3 and applied CSS frameworks such as Bootstrap  ? Implemented AJAX and JQuery on Front-End to make the web page more dynamic.  ? Dynamic content management at client side using AJAX, JavaScript, DHTML.  ? Involved in integration testing, functional testing and UI testing.  Environment: AngularJS, REST API, PHP, HTML5, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, MySQL, Apache, MVC Frame Work, jQuery, CSS. Web Developer/ Angularjs Developer ADP - Florham Park, NJ May 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on PHP to integrated the HTML Pages with database in order to get the data and populate in the front end UI Screen.  ? Developed modules for Moodle Platform related to contents customization and tracking individual activities.  ? Implemented AJAX and JQUERY on front-end to make the web page more dynamic.  ? Designed theme using HTML/XHTML, CSS.  ? Created Front end UI for Service Reporting System using Drupal.  ? Worked with YUI library Designed and developed multiuser, 3-tier MVC web-application (Apache, PHP5, Oracle11g, jQuery, JQuery UI, JavaScript /JSON) for describing whole infrastructure.  ? Worked with LAMP stack and open source software.  ? Used JavaScript frameworks like NODE.JS,ANGULAR.JS  ? Responsible for website maintenance client websites on a daily basis involving HTML, CSS, Drupal  ? Wrote backend PHP code whenever required using Laravel framework.  ? Involved in release into Production, Development, QA, and Staging.  ? Optimized sites for usability, search engines and accessibility, and updated existing sites and content management systems.  ? Made and implemented a huge variety of websites and web apps using PHP, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, MySQL  ? Knowledge of modern web technologies and techniques (Node.JS, SASS, LESS, Responsive Design, etc.)  ? Relevant experience in web applications using PHP - Symfony2, Laravel, CakePHP and Zend  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Experience with version control systems like Git, SVN, etc. Experience working with CI/CD tools like Jenkins, Travis, etc.  ? Worked on coding optimized SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers on databases like MySQL, MS SQL and Oracle  ? Use of PHP and Zend framework.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery on client side.  ? Implemented Jquery code to create various design sliders on Home pages of websites.  ? Involved in the development using Drupal and PHP  ? Used Jquery for creating different menus and dialog boxes and also used different jquery plugins for calendar, calculator and printing options.  ? Worked on Stack Zend PHP, Apache Web Server, SVN, Oracle, JavaScript, jQuery  ? Created and implemented a wide variety of websites and web applications using PHP, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, MySQL  ? Developed single paged web based apps using "backbone.js".  ? Build AJAX pages using PHP to display current server time  Environment: Drupal, JQuery, Zend 2, PHP, CSS, Python, MySQL, Google map Api V3, Html, CSS, JavaScript. Web Developer BMO Harris Bank - Chicago, IL February 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in back-end development with PHP (4/5), MySQL, XML and light database design.  ? Designed and developed multiuser, 3-tier MVC web-application (Apache, PHP5, Oracle11gand jQuery, JavaScript /JSON) for describing whole infrastructure.  ? Made and implemented a huge variety of websites and web apps using PHP, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 and MySQL.  ? Worked with LAMP stack and open source software  ? Used JavaScript frameworks like Node.js, Angular.js.  ? Installed and configured PHPv5, Apache and MySQL on different servers.  ? Created and implemented a wide variety of websites and web applications using PHP, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 and MySQL.  ? Worked on developing web pages using AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.JS, HTML4, Dojo, Node.JS, JQuery, JSON, XML, REST and SOAP.  ? Involved in release into Production, Development, QA, and Staging.  ? Worked on coding optimized SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers on databases like MySQL, MS SQL and Oracle  ? Use of PHP and Zend framework.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery on client side.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for coding, debugging and testing the application modules.  ? Use of Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE) in entire project development.  ? Optimized sites for usability, search engines and accessibility, and updated existing sites and content management systems.  ? Knowledge of modern web technologies and techniques (Node.JS, SASS, LESS, Responsive Design, etc.)  ? Experience with version control systems like Git, SVN, etc. Experience working with CI/CD tools like Jenkins, Travis, etc.  ? Implemented Jquery code to create various design sliders on Home pages of websites.  ? Involved in the development using Drupal and PHP  ? Used Jquery for creating different menus and dialog boxes and also used different jQuery plugins for calendar, calculator and printing options.  ? Involved in Integrated Development like Dream weaver, Eclipse and Microsoft Visual Studio.  ? Worked on Stack Zend PHP, Apache Web Server, SVN, Oracle, JavaScript, jQuery  ? Developed single paged web based apps using "backbone.js".  ? Responsible for website maintenance client websites on a daily basis involving HTML, CSS, Drupal  ? Build AJAX pages using PHP to display current server time.  Environment: Drupal, JQuery, Zend 2, PHP, Python, Apache, MySQL, Angular.JS, Google map Api V3, Html, CSS, JavaScript. Web Developer / Laravel Developer Viacom - New York, NY August 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on PHP to integrated the HTML Pages with database in order to get the data and populate in the front end UI Screen  ? Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  ? Worked on React JS VirtualDom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  ? Involved to implement various screens for the frontend using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  ? Laravel views are designed with Vuejs framework and blade templating engine.  ? Involved in designing and building the MySQL database in Laravel.  ? CRUD operations are developed using models, views and controllers.  ? Created controllers and models for signup. Developed code for users to sign in.  ? Done some post validations and outputting errors using AJAX.  ? Specific features like image upload, change data ordering, logo change on all pages are given in the Admin panel.  ? Worked on SEO (Search Engine Optimization).  ? Involved in documentation and RCA (Root Cause Analysis).  ? Tested and validated work produced as part of the development process.  ? Responsible for checking the cross-browser compatibility using Modernizer.  ? Developed custom modules by integrating Web Services like REST and SOAP.  ? Worked with Open Authorization (OAuth) API's.  ? Preparation of Bug report & Bug Tracking using Bugzilla online software.  ? Used Python, Beautiful Soup and Selenium WebDriver for web scraping project.  ? Wrote Unix Shell Scripts, undertook Code Optimization and Performance tuning of the application.  ? Worked with Apache Solr for search and navigation features.  ? PHPUnitis used to test for the bugs.  ? Actively involved in QA and staging.  ? Migrated project along with database from localhost to private hosting environment.  ? Worked in Agile/Scrum software developmentmethodology.  Environment: Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP, PHPMYADMIN, Laravel, Python, Beautiful Soup, Selenium, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, SEO, VUE JS, PHPUnit, Apache Solr, UNIX Scripts. PHP Developer Affinion Group - Stamford, CT January 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Involved Developed internal web applications on three modules, i.e. customer center, membership center and Web app login using PHP.  ? Worked on JavaScript, ASP.NET, and PHP and with Macromedia Flash.  ? Worked on theme layer for Drupal  ? Worked with the Foundation framework and with AJAX based sites/ web applications.  ? Developed Jquery plugin for accordions and customized them meeting the business requirements.  ? Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery on client side.  ? Used PHP-MYSQL connectivity to access the required data from the database.  ? Back end development and maintenance of websites using PHP and MySQL.  ? Worked on JavaScript and PHP and with Macromedia Flash.  ? Built PHP applications to meet product requirements and satisfy use cases using MVC architecture, Code igniter Framework and Drupal CMS.  ? Efficiently developed code for different modules by using Oracle SQL, PLSQL and Shell scripting  ? Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  ? Worked on HTML, CSS andof digital imaging and illustration with Adobe Photoshop, In Design and Illustrator.  ? Involved with front-end integration projects using various frameworks and HTML5, SAAS, CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, and Ajax technologies and methodologies.  Environment: PHP, MySQL, LAMP, Zend, Javascript, AJAX, Jquery, CSS3, XHTML, HTML, Cake JQuery, Code ignitor, Html 5, XML, XSD, SAAS, PL/SQL, Photoshop, UNIX Web Developer LIC August 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in deployment of full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the tracking systems Requirement gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detail design, Development, System Testing, and User Acceptance.  ? Designed and developed all the user interfaces using HTML, CSS, Java Script.  ? Developed the application using LAMP Server (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP).  ? Used PHPMYADMIN to handle MySQL databases and tables over the web.  ? MySQL Schema is designed and created.  ? Backend development was made using PHP & MySQL.  ? User Interface is built based on the requirements.  ? Worked on Ajax functionalities.  ? Client-Side form validations are developed using Java Script.  ? CRUD operations are developed using PHP scripts.  ? SMTP (simple mail sending protocol) is used to send promotional emails.  ? Used Agile/Scrum as a development life cycle.  ? Specific features like image upload, crop after upload, change data ordering with drag and drop, logo change on all pages are given in the Admin panel.  ? Worked on SEO (Search Engine Optimization)  ? Added Google language translator for the comfort of customers visiting this website.  ? Unit Testing is always done.  Environment: Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP, PHPMYADMIN, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, SEO, PHP Unit. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVASCRIPT (8 years), PHP (8 years), AJAX (8 years), MYSQL (8 years), HTML5 (8 years), Angular, Node, Java, Python, React Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies  HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, LESS, SASS, Stylus, XML, GUI, JavaScript, ES6, jQuery, JSON, WordPress, Moodle, Ajax, Adobe Photoshop CS4/CS6, PHP and MySQL, Laravel Framework, Symfony Framework, CakePHP, JSP, SOAP, Win Forms and Windows Services, Backbone JS, AngularJS, GIT, VueJs, Express Js    Languages Java, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, HTML5, Java Script, SCALA, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS  Databases MySQL, MS SQL, PL/SQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL  Version control GIT, SVN, CVS  CMS Drupal, Joomla, Wordpress