Senior Full Stack Web Developer Senior Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer, Ammunition New York, NY 7 years experience building & developing web applications.  Proficient in working with web technologies such as PHP, AJAX, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML, and MySQL, Restful APIs, PHP Laravel & NodeJS. Excellent working knowledge of SSH CLI for server communication.  Others: Drupal, Salesforce Pardot, Amazon (Beanstalk, EC2, et al.), Callrail API, Linux OS. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Full Stack Web Developer Ammunition - Atlanta, GA May 2018 to Present I was responsible for building and maintaining an application that synchronizes data from a list of about 100,000 contractors in Salesforce. The application automatically assigns phone numbers (from CallRail) for contractors and sends out a notification when any change is detected.  Other Responsibilities:  • Building micro-websites that connect to third party APIs like Tatango, Calrail.com, Salesforce. The microsite perform CRUD operations using several RESTFUL API services.  • Building new API endpoint for a custom CMS built in PHP Laravel.  • Creating new pages and building out new features for website's frontend in AngularJS & Drupal  • Creating micro applications with NodeJS to fetch data from API endpoint for data analysis.  • Downloading, manipulating and moving over 3GB of data between several MySQL databases.  Environment/Platforms: CentOS, Nginx, Apache Server, Amazon AWS S3, MySQL DB, PHP, JavaScript. Senior Web Developer Language Link LLC - Atlanta, GA August 2017 to March 2018 • Migrated an existing application from a local Microsoft Access database to an Amazon EC2 server in the cloud. Application was built PHP Laravel.  • Helped Language Link in saving about $180,000(annual expenses), for repetitive data entry work that was automated, and about 10 hours of the CEO’s time.  • Built a application within the CMS for sending bulk email, using Google SMTP, saving the company, the cost for a new external bulk email service. Web Developer Spirits Consulting Group - New York, NY June 2016 to July 2017 Designed mockups for websites. Designing graphics for promoting brands on social media. Built websites with open source CMS.  • Created websites with HTML 5, CSS 3, PHP & Javascript  • Set up website traffic analytics with Google analytics, including Goals with Javascript.  • Designed banners and website graphics with Adobe Photoshop  • Created customs emails newsletters using custom HTML.  Languages: PHP, Javascript, HTML & CSS Web Developer VConnect - Lagos, NG November 2013 to May 2016 VConnect is Nigeria's Largest Local Search Engine for business and SMEs. I was part of the team that built a movie search engine for VConnect.  • Built the movie database with MySQL, and the API backend with PHP.  • Created a RESTFUL API that adheres to the RESTful Architecture, with PHP & MySQL. Set up CRUD operations for the API endpoints.  Languages/Platforms: PHP, MySQL. Front End Web Developer Syspera & Company - Lagos, NG September 2012 to October 2013 • Developed and built websites for clients with HTML & CSS.  • Designed website logos with Adobe Photoshop.  • Designed website wireframes, which were converted to responsive HTML & CSS websites.  • Communicating with Syspera's clients about their website, tasks & features they want implemented on their websites, and how to improve it. Education Associate in Computing/Business Information System Association Of Business Executives UK March 2013 to March 2015 Skills MYSQL (5 years), Javascript (5 years), Git (2 years), PHP (6 years), Laravel (5 years), NodeJs (3 years), HTML (6 years), CSS (5 years), SSH (3 years), HTML 5 (7 years), Jquery (5 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/samceen