UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer Chicago, IL • Over 8+ years of professional experience on high responsive and compatible front-end applications that are balanced with innovation and user-friendly features with an eye on business strategies • Excellent knowledge on the DOM (Document Object Model) and BOM (Browser Object Model) elements and structure.  • Knowledge on Software Engineering concepts that includes Requirements Specification, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing.  • Profound Knowledge on Requirements Engineering concepts which includes Requirements Elicitation, Analysis, Communication Techniques, Requirements Validation and Testing, Request for Proposal (RFP) and Construx methods.  • Strong foundations in using HTML/HTML5 elements along with Cascading style sheets (CSS).  • Experience in using frameworks such as Backbone JS, Ember JS, Express JS, Require JS, Socket IO and many ExtJS-MVC.  • Dealt with different development processes following AGILE/SCRUM Methodology.  • Experience in developing User Interfaces for games with HTML5/CSS.  • Excellence in understanding and using MVC (Model View Controller) with Angular JS, Ext JS.  • Immense experience on languages on scripting such as HTML/HTML5, XHTML, CSS/CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular.Js, Node.Js, React JS, JQuery, Grunt, REST, AJAX, XML, JSON.  • Worked with REST-compliant web services, SOAP.  • Skilled in working with applets of Java/J2EE framework.  • Experience with Modular, Paired, Open source, Spine, HAML, Ruby and Ruby on Rails.  • Worked with the latest GUI frameworks such as WPF/WIN for labels, textboxes and many more.  • Hands on experience in using various JS Libraries mainly MooTools, Prototype and JQuery.  • Experienced in designing, developing, delivering and implementing data-driven desktop and Web applications for clients and assisting in the development and maintenance of company Web applications (Internet and Intranet). Work Experience UI Developer Best Buy - Richfield, MN September 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities: • Developed the UI layout and front-end programming (HTML5) for web application that matched requirements.  • Working in the Agile/Scrum development environment with frequently changing requirements and actively participated in scrum meetings and reviews.  • Bootstrap used along with Angular JS in creating the Application.  • Development of Client-Side Validation techniques using Web RTC and jQuery and Angular Java Script.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 2.  • Created single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make dynamic by using Angular Js 2.0 framework and Node JS.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies.  • REST - the standard HTTP request and response mechanism, simplifying implementation and providing for a looser coupling of the client and server.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS in jQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Created Angular 2 components, implemented Input variables, Bootstrapping, Router Outlet, binding the click event, Component decorator, binding to the hidden property.  • Implemented Angular 2 component and services to connect the web application.  • Developed html views with HTML5, CSS, bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Experience in developing single page applications using Angular 2, using various angular modules like UI-router.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages. Web application development for backend system using Angular 2 and TypeScript with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Used Grunt task runner on the client side along with angular JS to perform unit testing, minification and compiling whenever a change in a file is made.  • Implemented faster mobile-friendly applications using Twitter Bootstrap framework.  • Leveraged Rally and flow doc to maintain the agile story points and burn downs.  • Structured JS code using AngularJS and UnderScore.JS including objects, module patterns and functions that encapsulate business logic, handle form validation, DOM manipulation.    Environment: Web storm, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, React.JS REST Web Services, Angular 2, Sass, RWD, AJAX, JSON, XML, SQL, Grunt, Gulp and Jasmine. Web Developer Centaurus Tech Partners June 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities: • Developed complex modules in the application.  • Used HTML, CSS, and jQuery to design User Interface Screens.  • Involved in the requirement analysis.  • Involved in the build, testing, and documentation.  • Provided inputs to the low level design and the test plan/test cases creation.  • Involved in activities like design, development, review, testing etc.  • Developed front-end UI pages and necessary backend classes to support data access and user authorization.  • Daily SCRUM stand-up meeting and provided demo to the business every Tuesday.  • Extensively worked on designing web pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery UI/UX Web Developer 4C Solutions - IN February 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities: • Developed designs in securing the application using form-based authentication using HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS.  • Worked on Content Management System (CMS).  • Designed UI patterns, UX patterns, illustrations, page layouts, templates and banners by using AdobeWeb Premium tools like Adobe Flash, Action Script 2.0, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator.  • Prepared the project technical documentation in .EXE format with the help of Macromedia Flash C3 and Action Script 2.0 • Familiar with Mobile Web Development using jQuery Mobile and Twitter BootStrap • Developed front end web applications and user interactive web applications with the help of HTML, DHTML, HTML DOM, XHTML and CSS.  • Designed the project architecture and data model by using MS Visio.  • Cooperated in development and finalization of initial design of the application and worked with content managers, copywriters and designers to resolve the issues.  • Designed and edited existing web applications, Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) with the help of Adobe DreamweaverCS3, AJAX and Adobe Contribute CS3.  • Developed business applications using web technologies like HTML, DHTML, Java Script and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Prepared the project content, managed the existing content, analyzed the content with the help of Content Management System (CMS).  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using HTML, XHTML, CSS and Client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Developed web applications based on Search Engine Optmization (SEO) techniques.  • Worked on browser compatablity and tested each and every application on popular web browsers like Internet Explorer, Firefox, Opera and Chrome.  • Designed graphic objects, GUI designs, animated icons, templates, illustrations, banners and vector images with the help of Macromedia Flash, Action Script 2.0 and Adobe Fireworks.  • Responsible for the entire web application / system / database design, deploy and maintenance.    Environment: HTML, DHTML, XHTML, DOM, XML, XSL, XSLT, CSS, CMS, JavaScript, ASP.NET, Adobe Flash CS3, Action Script 2.0, Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop CS3, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Illustrator CS3, Visio, SEO, CMS, and Microsoft Office Suite. Web Developer Ace Infosys Pvt. Ltd January 2010 to January 2012 Responsibilities: • Design the color theme based on client requirement.  • Design Company Website.  • Design Portals and other graphical essential elements.  • Creating Branding, Layout, Master Pages, Template and Themes design portals.  • Designing product based detailed demo presentation using Flash and MS PowerPoint.  • Creating Wireframes as per user requirements • Based on Approval of initial prototype/concept, convert them into Visual Design Comps • Design and Develop High Fidelity Conceptual Prototypes using HTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Developing Rich Internet application Design for Document management design optimization.  • Design Brochures, Banners, and business cards • Design Presentations for Client Meetings and Marketing • Coordinated with vendors for Domain name and Web space registration    Environment: PHP (Windows and Web Applications), Jamal, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, Flash, MS Word, MS PowerPoint, In Design. Education Masters Silicon Valley University 2016