UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI, AngularJs Developer Frisco, TX I'm a Front End Developer based in Dallas/Forth Worth Area, I firmly believe that user experience is all about the ideas and process, not the artifacts. I have developed various web applications using technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, Mongodb, Reactjs, Angularjs, Nodejs I've been taking on various design and development roles in my career to be able to understand all the ins and outs of the process I have been doing a range of things — from interaction and user interface design through web development to make sure I can deliver anything your team needs to get your idea off the ground. Work Experience UI Developer HCL Technologies - Frisco, TX September 2018 to Present • Client - USAA  • Responsible for developing UI pages using ReactJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Developing new user-facing features using React.js  • Building reusable components and front-end libraries for future use  • Translating designs and wireframes into high-quality code  • Thorough understanding of CSS principles with a clear ideology for managing maintainable, scalable and cross-browser code  • Created React service and integration with RESTful APIs.  • Used $http to send GET/POST request to fetch data from the server.  • Involved in Agile/SCRUM process, attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints  • Maintained the code using version control system like Git.  • Optimizing components for maximum performance across a vast array of web-capable devices and browsers UI Developer Faber Infinite - Vadodara, Gujarat June 2016 to May 2018 • Responsible for developing UI pages using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Developed responsive web pages for smart devices using Bootstrap and media queries.  • Extensively worked on custom directives with Pop-over and Pop-up functionalities with specific requirements matched to the conditions.  • Used UI Router to create different hierarchy structure in single page application.  • Created Angular service and integration with RESTful APIs.  • Used Angular $http to send GET/POST request to fetch data from the server.  • Used open source library like Angular material to create customized components.  • Active participation throughout the entire SDLC from project inception, code development and elaborate testing of various modules.Involved in Agile/SCRUM process, attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.Maintained the code using version control system like Git. Web Developer Independent Consultants - Alwar, Rajasthan April 2013 to May 2016 • Developed dynamic and interactive website that ensured high traffic, page views, and User Experience, resulting in 40% increase in sales revenue  • Oversaw full lifecycle of software development for 9 projects with 100% on time delivery while staying 5% under budget  • Designed processes for cleanup and performance improvement, that minimized downtime by 13% Education Master's in Computer Application Sunrise University - Alwar, Rajasthan June 2013 to May 2016 Bachelor's in Computer Application Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapith - Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh June 2010 to May 2013 Skills AJAX (5 years), Git (5 years), HTML5 (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), JSON (5 years), UI, Front End, React, Angular, Front-End Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information • Dedicated UI/Front - End Developer with 5+ years of experience in Single Page UI (User Interface) application design and development.  • Expertise in creating web applications using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3(SASS, LESS), Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, and JSON, Node.js, ReactJS and AngularJS.  • Hands-on experience in creating Angular modules, controllers, directives, and filters to deploy the entire business logic.  • Experience in using UI-Router for binding data to different states and rendering different templates.  • Hands-on experience in creating Angular factories for using angular services like $http and $resource to make RESTful API calls to the Java based backend.  • Creative Knowledge in Art creation, modification and conversion- Logos, print media, web page and software interface design using Photoshop, InVision Studio and Adobe Flash.  • Proficient in Bootstrap Grid and media queries to achieve responsive web design (RWD).  • Familiar with popular browsers development and debugging tools/plugins for IE tester, Chrome Inspector and Firebug.  • Solid understanding of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and capable of implementing OOP in JavaScript.  • Hands-on experience with using software version control tools like Git and SVN.  • Familiar with Managing, maintaining, and improving all aspects of website.   • Strong experience in writing and updating the technical documents on daily basis with the changes made to the existing environment on daily basis.  • Self-starter always inclined to learn new technologies and Team Player with very good communication, organizational and interpersonal skills.Efficient at meeting deadlines, working under pressure and managing multiple tasks at same time.