Web Developer and SEO Analyst <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and SEO Analyst Certified SEO Analyst and Web Developer Plano, TX Certified SEO Analyst with proficiency in On-Page and Off-Page Optimization, Keyword Research, Competitor Analysis, Link Building and Website Development, seeking a suitable position in an esteemed organization. Have good experience in working with Wordpress, Google Web Master toolkit, Google Analytics and well versed in HTML, CSS and Dreamweaver. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer and SEO Analyst BLUESPIRITS - Bangalore, Karnataka October 2014 to December 2016 ber 2014. Have developed and designed websites for online book library, NGO, Forex and Travels to name a few. Also optimized the websites by conducting competitor analysis, Keyword research, On-Page and Off-Page optimization and Link building.    Project 1:  Client - Silicon Forex & Travels  Description - Served as PoC for the client for this tours and travels company. Was responsible for all stages of project including strategic planning, conceptual design, development and execution. Assisted the client in content writing in accordance with the SEO requirements and standards. The task included developing a website, adding content and images in accordance with SEO requirements, assisted them to maintain their social media profiles on Facebook, Twitter and Google Plus. The website was developed using Wordpress, Photoshop and other necessary softwares and tools.    Project 2:  Client - Maithri Sarva Seva Samithi  Description - Worked on design and development of the website for an NGO. Customised the website according to the theme as proposed by the client. Met the client's requirement to match their website with that of their international partner. Held discussions with them to improvise the content and images on the web pages to enhance the overall look and feel.    Project 3:  Client - Bookz Junction  Description - The project included the design and development of an online book library. Integrated the On-Page optimization for all the products on the site with the thorough work of competitor analysis and keyword research, meta tagging and content optimization. The website is an online catalog of books from different genres. The website was developed to showcase the products in multiple categories and details of each of them explicitly. Software Developer EMC Data Storage Systems India Private Limited August 2008 to September 2013 Have worked in product development cycle related to 'Storage Domain' and 'Application Packaging'. Gained good exposure to MSCS clusters, Windows device drivers and MPIO framework.    Project 1:  Name - PowerPath Windows 5.5 Patch01  Description - This patch package was proposed to address 4 different problems faced by our customers - Fidelity Information Services, Kimpton Hotel and Restaurant, GRP. The customers were unable to use the PPE (PowerPath Encryption feature) functionality and also data migration functionality.    Roles and Responsibilities:  Development of driver installer module (device driver installation specific functions as per Microsoft's standards) for installing the drivers and an InstallShield package for deploying these drivers and other user-mode files on to the customer's hosts was created.  • High Level Design (HLD) & Low Level Design (LLD) documents describing the various stagesinvolved in creating an installer.  • Supporting and guiding the testing team by providing information about various environments the package needs to be verified.  • Status tracking & reporting to the management.    Project 2:  Name - PowerPath VE License Server installer  Description - The FlexNet License Server Manager for PowerPath had a vulnerability which could allow a malicious user to execute remote control and compromise the server.  Roles and Responsibilities - Addressed 2 different scenarios of installation - - Fresh installation and upgradation from the lower versions of the License server files.  • High Level Design (HLD) & Low Level Design (LLD) documents describing the various stages involved in creating an installer.  • Supporting and guiding the testing team by providing information about various environments the package needs to be verified.  • Status tracking & reporting to the management.  • Presenting the demo to the senior engineers and management.  • Preparation of all the necessary documents including the FAQ for the new customers and design document for internal reference purpose.    Awards and Certification:  • Hubspot Inbound Marketing Certification February 2017 to March 2018.  • Awarded "Silver Star" in appreciation and recognition of the efforts for developing the PowerPath Uncovered guide in the year 2010.  • Received "EMC Manufacturing Reward and Recognition" award for organizing and executing PowerPath boot camp 2009 (EMC PowerPath Product training sessions for the Customer Support team)  • Awarded "Bronze Star" for organizing and executing PowerPath boot camp 2012 (EMC PowerPath Product training sessions for the Customer Support team) Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Science University Visweswaraya College of Engineering - Bangalore University - Bangalore, Karnataka 2008 Skills Html, CSS, Wordpress, SEO, Keyword Research, Competitor Analysis, Windows Installshield (6 years), SEO, Wordpress, Social Media Marketing, Microsoft office, Microsoft Office (5 years), Google Analytics, Digital Marketing, HTML, Digital Marketing, Google Analytics, Python Certifications/Licenses Hubspot Inbound Marketing February 2017 to March 2018 Google Analytics April 2019 to April 2022 Additional Information Skills:    • HTML, CSS, C\C++  Google Analytics  • Website Development  • Website and Portal monitoring  • Dreamweaver, Wordpress  • SEO coding and strategy, social media  • Microsoft Visual Studio  • Installshield  • Installscript  • MSI Installers  • VBScript  Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel  • Excellent problem solving abilities  • Excellent communication skills