Consultant - Contractor for Discover Consultant - Contractor for Discover Consultant - Contractor for Discover - Bitwise Inc Wheeling, IL I have 6+ years of rich experience in building and maintaining applications and products using Java/J2EE, Unix. I am currently working as a Production Support Analyst with a renowned Financial Institution and worked with other companies in Energy and E-commerce domains. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant - Contractor for Discover Bitwise Inc January 2019 to Present • Monitoring 50 Batch Applications and 7 Online Applications at onsite.  • Monitoring production job run times to documented SLA and troubleshoot and resolve production job failures and issues.  • Extensively involved in Production Support and fixing the problems.  • Ensures 1st line support requests, clarify tickets, ad-hoc queries, support to external applications are allocated within team and track its completion/resolution.  • Gain detailed knowledge of all business flows, the application architecture and the hardware configuration for supported applications.  • Represents the team on p1, p2 and p3 calls and strive to resolve the issues and stabilize the application to ensure minimum downtime.  • Ensures 2nd line support requests, clarify tickets, ad-hoc queries, support to external applications are allocated within team and track its completion/resolution.  • Identify and respond to events that impact production and aid in resolving those issues; including technical resolution and management communication. IT Developer Iresa Limited August 2016 to July 2018 • Develop UIs with JSP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Used J2EE design patterns to create application, including utilizing EJB for business logic.  • Create and execute test cases in JUnit for unit testing of application.  • Developed new application and added functionality to existing applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Utilized frameworks such as Hibernate and Spring for persistence and application layers.  • Wrote queries in PostgreSQL to retrieve data from Database.  • Wrote SQL queries to retrieve data from the Database.  • Created Reports at the end of each phase in order to monitor and keep a record of the System Development Web Developer Drift Developers July 2014 to December 2015 • Conducted various meetings with clients for each sequential phase.  • Provided E0 estimates for various SDLC phases.  • Created High Level Designs based on the requirements in each phase.  • Prepared/Reviewed Low Level Design document.  • Conducted pre and post walk through sessions with client/stake holders on design documents.  • Created database tables in initial phases and modified in further phases (when and if required).  • Developed /coded complex modules based on phase requirement.  • Conducted walk through sessions with client /SME for code and DB scripts review.  • Created, Verified and Tested complex queries required for the software and reports in every phase. Generation and execution of test cases with 90% code coverage.  • Created plan for integration testing.  • Created reporting module at the end of each phase in order to monitor and track the project stability and scalability.  • Documenting the changes in Templates (Word, Excel) and Confluence wiki. Web Developer Bizilab Private Limited July 2013 to July 2014 • Collecting and understanding requirements from the clients regarding the project.  • Created UI designs.  • Obtained sign-off on various project documents.  • Developed/Coded project modules.  • Generation and execution of test cases.  • Fixed the bugs and made the changes as asked by the client.  • Documented the changes in Templates and Confluence. Education Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) in Computer Science and Engineering Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology 2013 Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, jQuery Additional Information Skills    Languages JAVA, Spring, Unix Shell Scripting, Hibernate, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, MySQL, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery  RDBMS/Data Bases Oracle SQL Developer, Teradata, PostgreSQL, MySQL, phpMyAdmin  Development Tools STS, NetBeans, Eclipse, Dreamweaver, Sublime Text, Atom  Operating Systems Windows 2000, XP, Windows 7, Windows 10, Ubuntu, CentOS, MacOS, Unix  Software / Tools  Github, SecureCRT, Gitbash, TWS_CLI, IBM Tivoli Scheduler, Kibana, Jenkins, PCF, BitBucket, Tortoise Hg, Waterfall, Maven, Apache, Tomcat, ActiveMQ, JIRA, Confluence, ActiveMQ, Putty, MySQL Workbench, FileZilla, VPN Connect    Business Areas/ Functional Knowledge Finance, E-commerce, Energy