Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - TeamEDA Nashua, NH More than five years of experience in Software Development. Extensive application and web development experience. Highly knowledgeable in Ecommerce integration, Responsive Web Design and Database design. Excellent project management and analysis skill. Hard working, detail oriented and able to multi task effectively. Work Experience Software Developer TeamEDA - Manchester, NH October 2016 to Present LAMUM (License Asset Manager with Usage Monitoring ):    • Setup Daemon down alert, Capacity alert Long-checkout alerts, Expiration Alerts. Set up cron interval to manage alerts.  • Concurrency graph - Graph that shows concurrent use for selected Tool.  • Display, Download and setup a batch report functionality for History Graphs as user-friendly and interactive way using google chart.  • Generic Data Import parcer which allows you to import your old data/data from license not currently supported by LAMUM.  • Write Database reduction procedure. Write shell script and setup cron interval to manage automatic database reduction.  • Data migration, transformation, and scripting  • Database cleanup and shrink database size for windows and Linux.  • Creating database schemas that represent and support business processes  • Setting up Multiple Domain Active Directory setup to search user details in multiple active directory.  • The Denial Heatmap Graph displays the total number of denials for a feature on a selected time period.  • Denials Overview: Shows all denials for all Tools for the selected time period. You may drill down for a specific Tool, under Details, to see Denials for that Tool by month, week, day.  • DSLS Denial Parser(Dassault Systemes License Server):  The DSLS log parsing feature is used to capture Denial data. The DSLS Debug log files(multiple log files) contain Denial information which is needed to parse and create Denial reports.  • Gauge Display page shows all features/Tags currently checked out, listed in order of "Capacity in Use".  • Update NSIS script to create Window's Full build and upgrade for LAMUM using ionCube PHP Encoder.  • Management of hosting environment, including database administration.  • Proficient understanding of client-side scripting and JavaScript frameworks, including jQuery.  • Proficient understanding of code versioning tools like SVN  Building reusable code and libraries for future use.  • User Technical support and QA.  • Environment: pHp, Javascsript, Jquery, JSON, CSS, HTML, Mariadb, MySQL, cron, Netbeans IDE 8.0.2, ion Cube PHP Encoder, NSIS script, Mantis Bug Tracker, Apache 2.4, Tomcat 8.0, Redhat, Centos, Windows Computer Programmer The Bronze Craft Corporation Nashua NH - Nashua, NH April 2016 to September 2016 • Troubleshooting Business software written in UBL( Universal Business Language)  • Design and Implement software program as per requirement.  • Provide user support for all computer related functions which includes problem solving, analysis of program, design and error diagnostics.  • Assure proper backup and off-site storage of computer files for all computer application software as needed  • Maintain Bronze craft website built in Concrete5. Implement /edit website as per requirement.  • Update BronzeCraft.com website in WordPress, PHP, JQuery, Javascript, CSS, My SQL.    June 2015 - March 2016  http://www.bigmathbook.com    Bigmathbook.com is a responsive educational website which help kids to learn math fun way.  It's a database driven portal to practice variety of math problems. The great feature of this portal is if child gets wrong answer it explains right solution. It also includes Registration, Login, Printable worksheets and Progress Report to keep track of previous math practice.  Environment: PHP, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, JavaScript, CSS, My SQL Web Developer Krishna Consulting, Nashua June 2013 to June 2015 Yellowcellphone: Designed database driven web portal sells cell phone accessories with fully function backend to manage all cell phone categories, products, customers, price and images and other details. Shopping cart with payment option includes paypal and google checkout. More than 50000 records added to launch website successfully.  Environment: pHp, Jquery, Javascript, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, My SQL, MS Access    Kickdeals.com  A website where you can find latest coupon, hot deals, deals, classifieds, events in your city. There are two back end in the portal. one for vendor to manage their events, deals or classifieds and one for administrator with full rights to control all cities, events, vendors etc.  Environment: ASP, Javascript, Vbscript, HTML, CSS, MS SQL    Rakhihut:  An E-commerce portal sells different rakhi products with various designs and categories with different combinations to attract customer. Shopping cart and fully functioned backend is added as a strong featured.  Environment: ASP, Javascript, Vbscript, XHTML, CSS, MS Access Toronto, CA - Web Assistant NOVATREX INC - Toronto, ON 1999 to 2002 Toronto, Canada - Software Developer  • VIPBenefits Inc - Ahmedabad, India Software Developer Education Bachelor of Engineer in Computer Science Gujarat University 1998 Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C++, Developer 2000, Gui, Json, Php, Vbscript, Visual basic, Db2, Ms access, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Ajax, Asp, Dreamweaver, Iis, Javascript, CSS, Git, HTML 5 Additional Information Technical Proficiency:  Internet Skills: PHP 7.2, classic ASP, Apache 2.4, Tomcat 8.5, JQuery, AJAX, Html5, IIS, SSL, Java Script, JSON, VBScript, CSS3, WordPress4, Bootstrap3, Concrete5, GitHub  GUI Tools: Netbeans IDE 8.0.2, ion Cube PHP Encoder, MS office 365 Libre Office 5.4, Mysql workbench, TortoiseSVN 1.8, Mantis Bug Tracker, Oracle VM VirtualBox 5.0, Developer 2000, InstallShield, Microsoft Visual Studio, Adobe Dreamweaver  Languages: Java, C, C++, Visual Basic, ShellScript, Cron Job  Databases: Mariadb 10.3, My SQL, MS SQL Server, MS Access, DB2  OS: Windows, Redhat 7.2, Centos 7