Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Amalgamated Bank Stamford, CT • Full Stack Developer with 5+ years of experience in .Net Technology, has extensive experience in both front-end and back-end software engineering and implementation of software design patterns.    • Breadth of experience covering the "stack" of front-end web user interfaces and web servers through to back-end analysis and storage systems.    • Strong knowledge with technologies including HTML5, CSS3, XML, SOAP, WSDL, REST, JSON, and JavaScript.    • Expertise in dynamic web page design via jQuery and AJAX, which allow for updating the pages without reloading.    • Experience in developing SPA using Angular 4~7, TypeScript, Bootstrap, Angular Material and Angular CLI.    • Strong understanding of Object-Oriented Design in programming language like C# in ASP.NET.    • Experience with web-based applications and/or web services-based applications at massive scale like MVC5, REST API, Web Forms, Web Service, WCF.    • Experience in implementing Onion Architecture, N-tier Architecture with Singleton and Factory Design Pattern.    • Extensively worked with ADO.NET, Entity Framework 6 and LINQ to enable object-relational mapping consisting of access and modifications to data stored in relational database systems.    • Experience with relational databases (Microsoft SQL Server 2015, MySQL, PostgreSQL) in the areas of query optimization, database design and scalability.    • Strong Knowledge in Postman, Jasmine, Karma and N-unit to conduct testing.    • Solid Knowledge of professional software engineering practices & best practices for the full software development life cycle (SDLC).    • Proficient in using Git via GitHub to allow contributions from team members into projects, as well as highlight progress and issues.    • Effectively communicates with team members, customers, partners and management via Slack, Azure DevOps, JIRA and Agile Methodologies, including assisting with or conducting technical walkthroughs, reporting project status, enabling facilitating Vendor solutions and providing accurate and concise documentation.    • A person that thrives and succeeds in a hyper-growth environment where priorities shift fast. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Amalgamated Bank - New York, NY November 2018 to Present Amalgamated Bank has been committed to serving local and global communities by being a market leader in Investment Banking, Securities, Investment Management and Wealth Management services. This project is about using UI/UX experience to design web pages and using languages and technologies of the .NET framework to transport data. I create designs from scratch, configure existing systems and provide user support about data.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Used Angular 7, CSS 3, HTML 5, JavaScript and Angular Material for business end user facing front pages.  • Implemented Responsive Design for making pages compatible and mobile friendly by using Bootstrap Library.  • Created self-contained, reusable and testable modules and components.  • Designed dynamic client-side codes to build web pages and simulate process for web application.  • Employed Authentication and Authorization through JSON Web Token (JWT).  • Used page navigation and form validation via Angular material.  • Used attribute directive to change the appearance or behavior of an element, component, or another directive.  • Implemented Routing using Angular Router, which enables navigation from one view to the next as users perform application tasks.  • Employed RESTful Web API services that allows the project to retrieve and manipulate data from the back-end.  • Used Database First Approach in Entity Framework to build DAL for Web API, which is for data exchange between clients and server.  • Manipulated Web API integration (Rest, JSON, XML).  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility issues and have good knowledge in understanding Cross Origin Domain (CORS) issues.  • Used MS SQL Server 2015 to create the tables and sample data for testing purpose.  • Created Store Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Views using T-SQL in Development environment for MS SQL Server 2015.  • Employed Postman to test RESTful Web API and Karma to unit test Angular Component.  • Involved in work allocation, review of Impact analysis, Design and Coding in Azure DevOps.  • Involved in writing Code merge, Documentation through Git.  • Worked in Agile environment and submitted daily status report to team leader.    Environment: C#, .Net, Angular 7.0, Entity Framework 6.0, Web API, MS SQL Server 2015, HTML 5, CSS 3, Angular Material, Angular Router, TypeScript, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Rest, JSON, XML, Postman, Karma, Agile, Git, Azure DevOps. Software Developer The Graham Company - Philadelphia, PA June 2017 to October 2018 The Graham Company is an insurance brokerage and consulting firm committed to enhancing employee safety and business viability through an action-oriented approach to risk management. The project was about using .Net methodologies to design web page, transform data to front-end and using the data to provide analysis and decision support.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, Bootstrap based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Designed interfaces with services for web applications via Asynchronous Programming  • Created Angular components like Components, Services, Directives and Angular Form to collect different user data and implemented Form Validations in Angular.  • Used Lazy Loading to improve the performance when rendering the landing page of application.  • Implemented Pipe in Angular to acquire the desirable format of data.  • Used Dependency Injection mechanism for a simpler way of using service, function and library in constructor.  • Implemented Angular two-way binding to set up the initial value and get data from page in Angular Form.  • Implemented N-Tier architecture using Web API Services C# and LINQ and tested using Visual Studio N-Unit Testing Framework and hosted on IIS 7.0.  • Created middle tier http services using ASP.NET Web API.  • Set up Exception Filters for error handler in Web API, like HttpResponseException.  • Enable cross-origin request in Web API to support cross domain request via Cross Origin Resource Sharing (CORS).  • Implemented Data Annotation to set validation rules for properties in model as filters.  • Launched Karma test runner for testing in Angular CLI.  • Actively involved in Development, Sprints, stand up meetings and customer reporting backlogs.  • Used Azure DevOps for tasks tracking, communication, deployment and reporting.  Environment: C#. Net, HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Ajax, Angular 4.0, ASP.NET Web API, N-Tier architecture, IIS 7.0, MS SQL Server 2015, N-Unit Testing, Angular CLI, Karma, Azure DevOps. Software Web Developer (ASP.Net MVC) Open Systems Healthcare - Philadelphia, PA January 2016 to May 2017 Open Systems Healthcare a passionate group of home care professionals who focus on finding the right home care services for customers' needs. Company provides in-home personal care, skilled nursing, and behavioral services to adults and seniors. This project enables a separation of user-interface logic from application business-logic and provides a natural interaction mechanism between participating solution entities by using MVC.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Effectively created easy to use, reusable controls and integrated them into ASP.NET web pages.  • Provided an object model for connecting to HealthVault and invoking HealthVault Service APIs from an ASP.NET MVC application.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C# .NET.  • Constructed maps nicely onto the MVC request-routing mechanism thus offering advantages over the traditional page-based web application request routing mechanisms.  • Implemented Onion Architecture in MVC for the purpose of less coupling and separation of concerns, which make model separated as Domain Entities Layer, Repository Layer, Service Layer and UI Layer.  • Created Layout view and Partial view as shared views to simplify web page design.  • Used TempData and ViewData to transform data between controller and view.  • Created MVC Filters like authorization filters, action filters and exception filters, which are used to execute custom logic before or after executing the action method.  • Used Model Binding in MVC framework view using Request Object directly to convert request values to primitive type and complex type parameters.  • Created Database First Entity Framework and used LINQ and Lambda expression to retrieve data from data source.  • Creating and maintaining database objects like complex Stored Procedures, Tables, Functions and SQL Joins.  • Involved in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project from requirements gathering, analyzing, designing, and developing the application using Agile Methodologies.  • Used Git to manipulate version control.  • Extensively involved in monitoring and knowledge sharing of team to ensure the delivery of high-quality products and communicate, task tracking in JIRA.  Environment: C#, Entity Framework 6, MVC 5, MS SQL Server 2015, Onion Architecture, LINQ, SDLC, Visual Studio 2013, Agile, Git, JIRA. Web Developer ( Web Form/WCF/ADO.Net) Vizo Financial Corporate Credit Union - Middletown, PA July 2014 to December 2015 Dollar Bank is a large, full service, regional bank serving both individuals and business customers. This project mainly focused on developing software for the bank's Contact Center Technology Group. One area of focus is a Windows Desktop Application - CATCH, which is used by nearly every Customer Support Representative in the company, and its administrative website.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Created event driven Web Forms using ASP.NET and implemented form validation using validation controls and JavaScript both on server and client side.  • Created Responsive Design for front-end via Bootstrap.  • Developed master pages and handled events between master and content pages.  • Created SOAP services using ASP.NET WCF for exposing these to mobile device.  • Set up Address, Binding, Contract (ABC) for configuring an endpoint in WCF.  • Used 3-tier architecture to separate concerns to DAL, BLL, and UI layers.  • Used ADO.NET and data objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, Dataset, Data table, and XML Text Reader /Writer for consistent access to SQL data sources.  • Demonstrated create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) functionalities for data retrieve on web site.  • Developed unit and integration tests. Created documentation and release guides.  • Leading Dev team planning and estimation meetings as needed in Slack.  • Cross-training/knowledge-sharing between team members in Azure DevOps.  • Meeting with users and testers for Troubleshooting Sessions.  Environment: C#, ASP.Net, Web Form, JavaScript, MS SQL Server 2013, Git, HTML 4, CSS 3, WCF, SOAP, 3-tier Architecture, ADO.NET, Slack, Azure DevOps. Education Master of Science Carnegie Mellon University - Pittsburgh, PA Skills Ado, Database, Ado.net, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Typescript, Json, Vs code, Wcf, Python Additional Information Technical Skills    Web HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery, Angular 4-7, Angular UI, Bootstrap, Angular Material  Programming Microsoft C#, T-SQL, Python, LINQ  .NET Web Forms, MVC 5, Web Service, WCF, Web API, ADO.Net, Entity Framework 6, Visual Studio 2015-2019, Visual Studio Code 2014-2018.  Database SQL, Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio 2015, T-SQL, Oracle, MySQL, Teradata, SAS  Others  Git, XML, JSON, AJAX, RESTFUL, SDLC, Agile, Scrum, VS Code, ER-Diagram, SOAP UI, Postman, Jasmine, Karma, N-unit, Slack, Azure DevOps, JIRA