Systems Engineer I Systems Engineer I Web Developer Carmel, IN A position as a web programmer utilizing my knowledge of object-oriented programming or web programming and cms technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer I REGENSTRIEF INSTITUTE - Indianapolis, IN February 2019 to August 2019 Contract position responsible for planning, developing, and deploying .net, c# web apps for content developers to make changes to a SQL database. Worked with .Net core and entity framework.  Developer RezPower/ Ace Rent A Car - Indianapolis, IN March 2018 to February 2019 Responsible for working with the business and 3rd parties to analyze business problems and to develop and design .net VB/SQL solutions. Also heavily involved with implementing new source control, SDLC procedures, and supervising database merges, schema changes/design, and other database administrator duties. Associate Application Developer Lids - Zionsville, IN December 2016 to January 2018 Worked with a team of .NET and SQL programers as a Full Stack developer to create and implement new functionality and unit tests for in house .NET merchandising, order management, and legacy systems. Development included use of front end Telerik tools as well as substantial SQL stored procedure creation. Team adhered to Agile methodologies as well as Sarbanes-Oxley standards, using JIRA and GIT for version control. Associate Application Developer Stericycle - Indianapolis, IN August 2016 to November 2016 Responsible for Tier 3 back-end support for Stericonnect .net C# web application involving code fixes, database support, and researching coded solutions for reoccurring bugs, errors, and exceptions. Assisted Senior Developers and Architects in the main development cycle for Stericonnect and QA team in testing new application features through coded UI tests and creating test cases. Web Developer Joink, LLC - Terre Haute, IN August 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities  Designed and developed sites for various local business clients. Collaborated with an in-house team of developers on Smarter Certs, a web application used by weights and measures companies. Responsible for database administration for various sites and client applications. Took over Hostmaster duties and was responsible for DNS record changes and domain name registration. Worked closely with the call center in troubleshooting client problems that where beyond 1st level tech support.    Accomplishments  Took over Hostmaster duties and was responsible for DNS record changes and domain name registration. Worked closely with the call center in troubleshooting client problems that where beyond 1st level tech support.    Skills Used  WordPress design, photoshop, photography, .net/c# development Web Developer Indiana State University Office of Communications and Marketing June 2011 to December 2013 Employed by the Indiana State University Office of Communications and Marketing to work with a team of students responsible for editing, updating, and designing content for the Indiana State University websites as well as working with native APIs to update and maintain the State Mobile and ISU Mobile apps for iOS and Android. Additional duties included creating and testing new HTML5, CSS3, PHP, and JavaScript templates as well as testing a new CMS to be deployed in phases with university wide adoption in one year. Education BS in Information Technology Indiana State University - Terre Haute, IN 2010 to 2013 Skills Wordpress (6 years), .NET (6 years), SQL (6 years), Database Management (4 years), HTML Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skills  Programming:  Proficient in C# and SQL programming languages and the principals and ideas surrounding object oriented programming in general.  Web Programming:    Skilled and experienced in various aspects of web design and maintenance, including an extensive knowledge of HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.