Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - VISTANCIA HOME WATCH Peoria, AZ Work Experience Web Developer VISTANCIA PET AND HOME SITTING, LLC - Peoria, AZ November 2017 to Present • Redesigned website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript making it more user friendly.  • Fulfill client's request by modifying website as needed. Technical Intern PURDUE UNIVERSITY OFFICE OF FUTURE ENGINEERS - West Lafayette, IN January 2018 to September 2018 • Reported to the Assistant Director of Communications for weekly meetings and took direction  on web projects from staff across all three programs (more than 30 full-time employees).  • Assisted in the management and design of 4 web projects using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Responsible for design and coding; shared the responsibility with the Assistant Director of Communications and one additional technical intern.  • Responsible for editing and content management, shared the responsibility with the primary  admin and one additional technical intern.  • Researched trends and implemented best practices for user experience in higher education.  • Presented ideas and implemented feedback from primary admin to ensure that we met the expectations of the three units within the College of Engineering. Admissions Associate WET AND WILD WATERPARK - Phoenix, AZ May 2016 to August 2017 • Provided excellent customer service to customers seeking to buy park admission tickets and season passes.  • Sold tube rentals, cabana rentals and locker rentals while ensuring accurate documentation.  • Recognized by management and received "Employee of the Month" twice times during summer employment. Education Bachelor of Science in Web Programming and Design PURDUE UNIVERSITY - West Lafayette, IN May 2019 Skills Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Object-oriented programming, Php, Css, Asp.net, Web design, Ui, Ux, Data visualization, Sql, Visualization Links http://linkedin.com/in/nicolaus-fresh-821280108 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Follow and Implement Industry Accepted Best Practices and Tools  • Solid Understanding of Object-Oriented Programming  • Hands-on expertise with responsive web design and development  • Familiar with UI/UX concepts and methodology  • Experience with HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, SQL, ASP.NET, and Bootstrap, D3 JavaScript  Data Visualization Library, and Adobe Creative Suite