Senior web developer Senior <span class="hl">web</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Senior web developer Kingston, RI • Highly-skilled software development professional bringing more than 8 years in software design,  development and integration. Advanced knowledge of .NET programming and PHP.  • Development of applications using ASP.NET, C#.NET, VB.net, HTML5, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJs  and PHP.  • Highly experienced with SQL Server, MySQL, SqlLite and MS-Access databases.  • Design and implementation of web services and windows service using C#.  • Experienced in WinForms application development using VC++, VC#, ADO.NET, WPF.  • Good experience in Xamarin forms, IOS and Android programming.  • Exposure to entire System Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experience in Internet, Intranet, and 2-tier / 3-tier client/server applications  • Strong background in Object Oriented Analysis and Design using UML Methodology.  • Experience in writing complex Database Queries, Stored procedures using MS SQL Server and  development of DTS and SQL Tracing  • Strong knowledge in Setup, configuration& Maintenance of IIS and Active Directory. Work Experience Senior web developer Aditudemedia Inc - Ottawa, ON June 2014 to June 2018 • Delivered client digital signage screens with customizable contents.  • Responsible for system design, code review and test review.  • Programmed complex programs that interact with hex/bin files, test-drives and CMS based applications  using C#, ASP and VBS.  • Wrote and implemented scripts to enhance user experience and integrated scripts with the CMS.  • Developed shared central authentication system in ASP.NET for all clients across North America.  • Created, delivered and maintained scalable system architecture to support a high-availability internet  site with various internal applications. Freelance web developer ACart Inc - Ottawa, ON March 2015 to May 2015 • Designed editable PDF forms.  • Designed and implemented an automated application for populating Health Canada patients' data into XFA PDF.  • Stress-tested C# code to validate Health Canada files to obtain patient information and medical records  history.  • Analyzed and designed relational databases using SqlLite. Freelance web developer Ottawa, ON May 2014 to August 2014 • Evaluated multiple software solutions during system migration planning stage.  • Updated existing modules and created new web applications using PHP.  • Built databases and table structures using MySql and SqlLite. Computer Engineering Lecturer Institute of Public Administration - Riyadh, SA September 2011 to September 2013 • Supervised graduation projects with a concertation in hardware design.  • Taught computer engineering and science courses including: C++, Java, ASP.net, C#, Digital design, Hardware interface, Computer architecture, Web programming languages, Verilog and VHDL,  Microprocessor, CMOS circuit design, Introduction to VLSI, Advanced VLSI. Software Engineer Bayt Inc - Amman, JO December 2008 to September 2009 • Converted featured webpages to support asynchronous client requests.  • Updated and designed new modules, web forms and web services using TCL/Linux.  • Developed a communication layer that is used for consuming web services (SOAP, UDDI, WSDL).  • Developed a number of mobile friendly pages using TCL and PHP during the process of launching a mobile friendly website.  • Used Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) techniques to improve performance of the employers  and employees' sections.  • Translated business requirements into machine code (TCL, OracleDB) Web/Windows Developer Multilink Consultants - Amman, JO June 2008 to December 2008 Improved and updated a production tool using C#, ASP.NET, JavaScript, web services and SQL  applications.  • Developed and implemented an online meeting scheduler based on a voting system that allows  attendees to vote for their preferences (location, date and time).  • built a hierarchy voting system and a live windows service that manages votes using VB.NET.  • Performed and designed SMTP-based application for communicating with clients and sending voting  statistics using ASP.net  • Worked closely with clients to establish problem specifications and system designs.  • Developed the next generation integration platform for internal applications.  • Designed C#-based multi-threaded admin web applications.  • Engineered configuration server in VB.NET to reconfigure fiveSense product. Education M.Sc degree in computer engineering in average Jordan University of Science and Technology 2009 to 2011 B.Sc. degree in computer engineering in average Yarmouk University 2004 to 2009 Irbid secondary school 2003 to 2004 Skills Ajax, Asp, Css, Dreamweaver, Iis, Asp.net, Web server, Visual studio, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Oop, Php, Tcl, Vb.net, Vb6, Writing programs, Xml, Cms Additional Information Skills  Technology skills ASP.net, Classic ASP, PHP, servlets, CSS, HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, SOAP, Web  services, JQuery, XML, AJAX, AngularJS, JSP, Drupal, CMS MVC, n-tier, TCL,  SPICE and Matlab.  Programming languages C, C++, C/Linux, OOP, C#, VB.net, VB6, VBS, Java, PIC C, Windows services, IPC  and socket programming.  Database MSSQL, SqlLite, MySQL, Access DB and Oracle DBMS.    Software Visual studio IDE, Eclipse, Dreamweaver, IIS, Apache web server and others.    Hardware Solid background in writing programs to communicate with devices such as  RS232, USB and parallel ports, socket programming, parallel and distributed  applications and low level device programming using Intel assembly  instructions set.