UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Chase Bank New York, NY ? Over 6+ years of experience as a UI Developer in Developing Web Applications using various UI technologies and frameworks like HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular6/7, Node.js, React.js & jQuery.  ? Implemented view architecture of React.js in developing the components which are totally customized to meet the needs of the application.  ? Experienced working with Redux to manage the whole state and developed the well-designed store, actions and reducers.  ? Experienced working with Redux-Sagas as middleware to handle asynchronous events/side effects.  ? Experienced in working on Responsive Web Designs using Bootstrap and CSS3 Media Queries.  ? Experienced working with Typescript and ECMAScript 6 (ES6)  ? Experienced developing Single Page Applications (SPA's) using Angular, React.  ? Worked with Angular6/7 features like Components, Services, Routers and created Custom pipes to format the data before displaying it to the user.  ? Experience using Angular Template driven forms and Model driven forms builder by using NgModel.  ? Experience in creating the AngularJS custom directives, used the services like $http to make AJAX calls and $q as promises.  ? Experienced in working with AngularJS MVC, MVVM (Data Binding)  ? Expertise in using JSON and AJAX to link with back-end applications consuming RESTful Web Services.  ? Experienced in RDBMS systems like SQL, MySQL and NoSQL database MongoDB.  ? Implemented node modules using NPM into Node.js to integrate with designs and requirements.  ? Worked with scalable applications using the MEAN and MERN stack.  ? Implemented module management tools such as require, ES6 modules and hands on experience with build tools Webpack and gulp.  ? Experience developing testing strategies for client-side and server-side applications using Jasmine, Karma, Enzyme and Jest.  ? Experience in using vision control tools like SVN, GIT.  ? Experienced working with Agile, Waterfall and kept good communication through all phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle)  ? Possess very good communication, interpersonal and problem-solving skills.  ? Capable of quickly learning and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team. Work Experience UI Developer Chase Bank - New York, NY August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, ECMA Script 2015, TypeScript for interactive cross browser functionality.  ? Developed Web application by using CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap.  ? Created TypeScript reusable services using Angular 7 to consume RESTful API's.  ? Implemented Angular router to develop the Single Page Application (SPA)  ? Worked with Reducers, React Containers to update the state of an app produced by Redux and by mapping those to the React component using react-redux.  ? Implemented stable React.js components and stand-alone functions for reusability.  ? Implemented React.js with Redux pattern for component-driven web development.  ? Developed presentational and container components using React and JSX.  ? Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using react-draggable.  ? Implemented Redux sagas to manage asynchronous calls with Redux.  ? Implemented NPM (node modules), Bower for packaging management and Grunt for UI task runner.  ? Used MongoDB and MySQL for database persistence within Node.js.  ? Followed Agile Methodology and Iterative Development throughout the project.  ? Coordinated with the teams of QA/User Acceptance Testing, Backend and involved in issue Tracking and Bug Fixing in the production.  ? Utilized GIT as version control system for code check-in, check-out merging and branching from GITHUB repository.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, TypeScript, ECMAScript6, Angular6, React.js, Node.js, RESTful Webservices, MongoDB, Agile, Jest, Enzyme, GIT. UI Developer Syntel Inc - Schaumburg, IL September 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the web application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and React.js.  ? Implemented ES6 features like Arrows, Classes to make the JavaScript much more readable.  ? Created React.js reusable components using JSX and used Redux for state management of the application.  ? Used React.js to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  ? Implemented react-router to turn application into Single Page Application.  ? Implemented redux-thunk as middleware in the application to retrieve data from Back-end.  ? Implemented react-autocomplete for creating Google maps location search on the webpage.  ? Used react-tabs to develop multiple easy tab components.  ? Worked on React.js with Redux to separate the data and presentation layer and utilized Redux store to handle the states and update the UI.  ? Worked with Express.js to consume RESTful Webservices within Node.js.  ? Involved in creating MongoDB collections, documents and developed Mongoose Schema objects to perform CRUD operations.  ? Implemented JavaScript task runner Gulp to automate the tasks like minification of the files, compiling SASS to CSS.  ? Used Webpack as build configuration to develop the project and webpack-dev-server as server to run locally.  ? Implemented test cases and performed unit test using the JavaScript testing framework Mocha and Chai as a test runner.  ? Managed source control and version control using GIT.  ? Involved in Daily Standups, Retrospective, Sprint Planning, Code Review weekly and completed story points on JIRA tool.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, ES6, React.js, Node.js, Express.js, JSON, Gulp, MongoDB, Webpack, Mocha, Chai, Agile, JIRA, GIT. Jr Web Developer 3i Infotech Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Worked with the team of Interface Design architects and back-end Developers to gather requirements and enhance  ? the application functionality and added new features using React JS.  ? Worked in using React JS components, lifecycle methods, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Developed pdf's using handlebars in Node.js and used package manager Npm/Bower to manage dependencies.  ? Significant experience in handling Relational Databases like ORACLE, SQL Server, MySQL and writing PL/SQL  ? Stored Procedures, Triggers and Views.  ? Exposure to NoSQL Document based Databases paradigm like MongoDB and Cassandra  ? Solid Experience with Java based ORM frameworks such as Hibernate, JPA, and Spring Data.  ? Using Redux and ReactJS fetched the data from the back-end systems.  ? Developed JSP pages using tag libraries and presentation layer using JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, and AngularJS  ? Extensively used Ajax calls to consume the RESTful APIs and performed CRUD (Create, Read, Update and delete) operations.  ? Responsible for developing user interface using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS meeting the W3C standards.  ? Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  ? Wrote JavaScript code to add functionality to the existing application.  ? Used Bootstrap grid system to manage the layout and application styles.  Environment: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, React, redux, Angular JS, Angular 2.0. UI Developer ETENIA Media Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the front-end using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AngularJS.  ? Involved in creating HTML navigation menu which changes dynamically and derived from database in the form of XML.  ? Utilized CSS layout and style markup presentations to produce content pages.  ? Used AngularJS UI-router to make a single page application.  ? Implemented AngularJS two-way data binding (MVVM) to achieve the feedback functionality from the user.  ? Involved in developing AngularJS controllers, factory, services and reusable components.  ? Developed reusable custom directives in AngularJS using restrict, event handlers and templating.  ? Worked with various AngularJS built-in directives ng-if, ng-show and ng-hide to show and hide the information.  ? Involved in developing MEAN Stack (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, Node.js) to develop web application.  ? Created Ajax calls to consume the RESTful APIs for data parsing from based backend server and performed CRUD (Create, Read, Update and delete) operations.  ? Involved in writing basic SQL queries to retrieve the data from the backend.  ? Implemented the test cases using Jasmine and used Karma to run the scripts in the browsers.  ? Used JIRA software for bug tracking and project management in daily scrum meetings.  ? Configured GIT repository and maintained the version control using GIT.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, DOM, RESTful, AngularJS, Express.js, Node.js, Jasmine, Karma, Agile, JIRA, GIT repository, GIT. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML5 (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), MONGODB (6 years), VERSION CONTROL (5 years), UI DEVELOPER (6 years), Angularjs (4 years), Express JS (4 years), Git (5 years), jQuery (4 years), JSON (4 years), React JS (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, XML, Node.js  Libraries/ Frameworks React, Redux, AngularJS, Angular6/7, Bootstrap, Express, React, jQuery, NPM, Bower  IDEs Atom, Visual Studio code, Web Storm    Methodologies Agile-Scrum, Waterfall  Developer Tools Chrome Dev tools, Firebug, safari  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN  Databases SQL, Oracle, DB2, MySQL, MongoDB