Web Developer/ Web Administrator <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/<span class="hl">Web</span> Administrator Web Developer/ Web Administrator - PENDY Company Chino Hills, CA To obtain a Computer Technician/IT position. Work Experience Web Developer/ Web Administrator PENDY Company - Chino Hills, CA August 2018 to Present •Responsible for ensuring the company website remains accessible to the public.  •Coordinate with the owner and marketing team to update web content accordingly.  •Utilize PHP and Javascript to create code to optimize user-experience.  •Perform frequent website backups of content and databases.  •Respond quickly to any potential security issues or website downtime. Freelance Web Developer Chino Hills, CA January 2016 to Present •Develop professional websites focusing on User-Friendly design and functionality.  •Construct websites utilizing Wordpress and PHP.  •Manage SSL Certificates and CDN to enable a faster and secure user-experience.  •Analyze Google Trends to determine best keywords to use in meta-description and SEO.  •Utilize JavaScript functions to provide a faster user experience.  •Coordinate with website owner to determine new features to implement.  •Links to all my work can be found on my portfolio website: https://ndefinite.com/    Chino Hills, CA Presentation Specialist/Trainer Target Corporation - Diamond Bar, CA August 2011 to Present •Train new team members of proper use of equipment and procedures  •Promote sales by ensuring fulfillment of sales floor items  •In absence of Team Leader, responsible for ensuring the teams' completion of daily plans  •Follow schematics provided to redesign aisles according to best guest experience  •Consult with Team Leader to determine best course of action for daily plans  •Determine solutions to problems that arise with minimal impact to store operations and guest experience  •Provide excellent customer service Independent Game Developer October 2017 to January 2019 •Developed and published Android game Cosmic Strays  •Utilized libGDX framework and Android Studio development environment to develop app  •Programmed game with Java programming language  •Designed game to be user-friendly and quick to navigate  •Performed different levels of tests ranging from unit testing to system testing to ensure proper functionality  of the game. Education B.S. in Computer Science California State University - Fullerton, CA 2015 Skills C++, Html, Javascript, Php, Android, Java, Jira, Junit, Selenium, Css, Linux, Sql, Wordpress, Mac, Mac os, Microsoft office, Testing tools Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/na9s2h9i8w6lp1u4 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information ? Excellent quantitative, problem solving, and analytical skills  ? Great troubleshooting skills  ? Knowledge of solving networking issues  ? Knowledgeable about TCP/IP, DNS and DHCP  ? Knowledge solving general PC and Printer issues and repairs  ? Familiar with Active Directory and LDAP  ? Determined and ambitious  ? Properly and accurately create documentation for issues  ? Great communication abilities  ? Excellent customer service skills  ? Collaborates with appropriate teams to achieve best results  ? Intuitive, good observational skills  ? Excellent organizational abilities  ? Results oriented leader    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Testing Tools: JIRA, Selenium, JUnit  Platforms: Windows OS, Linux OS, Mac OS  Languages: Java, JavaScript, C++, HTML, CSS, SQL, PHP  Software: Microsoft Office, Android Studios, Wordpress