Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Amber system Technologies Tracy, CA Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Amber system Technologies - Pleasanton, CA February 2018 to Present At ASTPOS, it is my job to integrate code for a web application, with many databases hosted on remote POS systems. We take items/menus from those POS systems and turn them into an online menu where the customers of our customers can make orders and pay for them.    ? I am in charge of our live web application where more that 50+ companies have customers that use it.  ? Cleaned up web application codes structure.  ? Added many new features with extensive testing to ensure bug free code.  ? I make sure live code was backed up and working properly.  ? Implemented git into our system for version control that was not previously in place.  ? Debug different features.  ? Implemented alternate views and functionality of the web application.  ? Helped build a brand new application for customer reservations.  ? Created a shell script that makes backups of a database from a Master, and copies it to all the clients over the network automatically. Then Copies it to our backup server for safe keeping.  • Add new features to our analytics application for customers to view breakdowns of sales.  • Change UI to make a better user experience. CRM Application Developer JNB Jumps - Tracy, CA January 2012 to Present ? Created a Rails application for holding customer data and helping route truck deliveries.  ? Holds all of our inventory items and associates it with our customers orders.  ? Selecting a date, The application creates all the release of liability contracts, filled with customer information, ready for them to sign.  ? Creates individual maps for the driver who are going to deliver, as well as a master map with all plots, to show the best route for the trucks to drive while still being able to rearrange for customers who need it at a specified time. Education Computer science Las Positas College - Livermore, CA August 2017 to Present None in Computer science 42 coding university where they teach beginner - Fremont, CA November 2016 to Present Skills Rails (3 years), Ruby (3 years), API (3 years), BOOTSTRAP (3 years), C (2 years), PHP (3 years), PostgresSQL (3 years), Javascript (4 years), JQuery (3 years), HTML (4 years), Node, Nodejs, React Additional Information Skills  Software Developer specializing in PHP, Javascript, Jquery, Ruby, Ruby on Rails, Bootstrap, API integration, Postgresql, Shell/Shell scripting, C and CPP.