UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - IptiQ Armonk, NY • 8 years of experience for creation of public facing websites, Designing User Interface (UI) applications and Front-end web applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XHTML, AJAX, JSON, XML, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.js and React JS  • Proficient in building Single Page Applications (SPA), GUI and client side using JavaScript Model View Controller (MVC) framework such as Vue.js, Angular.js, angular2/4/5/6 and React JS.  • Experience in developing a Responsive Web pages and designing crossing browser compatibility with different platforms and screen sizes using Bootstrap.  • Good understanding in JavaScript frameworks such as Angular.js, Node.js and JavaScript libraries like Backbone.js, Knockout.js, Ext.js, React.js, Ember.js  • Experience with CSS utilities such as LESS, SASS, Twitter Bootstrap and Compass.  • Experience in designing web applications utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) and Progressive Enhancement techniques.  • Solid understanding of TypeScript and developed multiple POC's using Angular 2/4/5/6/7 versions.  • Experience in UX design with a strong background working in Wireframes (low fidelity and high fidelity) Prototypes, Mock-ups, Storyboard and User Flows.  • Experience in visualization, creating visual designs, Product Logos, developing high quality of work, maintaining team, design reviews and handling whole project through its life cycle.  • Strong exposure to Adobe tools such as Photoshop, Dreamweaver and Flash, and a sketch app Zeplin.  • Experience of Migration & Deployment of Applications with Upgrade Version of Applications.  • Formulated and documented UI architecture, components, and strategies for mitigating technical challenges.  • Experience in Utilizing tools that Vue.js provides to create large web applications with modular structure.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Experience implementing Npm, Gulp and Grunt for package management and installation of client-side dependencies using Bower.  • Implementing and integrating back-end REST services (API's), with the use of java, .net, MongoDB, Express.js, and NodeJS and using JSON for data transfer between front end and back end.  • Experience in developing N-Tier Architecture using Data Access Layer (DAL), Business Logic Layer (BLL) and User interface (UI), Model View Controller (MVC)  • Experienced working with OAuth2.0 Authentication along with OIDC to grant access using SSO (Single Sign On) and with OKTA Identity access management.  • Used SVN, Perforce and GIT for version management and the workflows associated with them (branching & merging) and utilized source code repository and facilitated the exchange between Team Foundation Service (TFS) and Git, Microsoft Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Involved in all phases of SDLC with good understanding ofTest driven Development and Agile/Scrum Development Methodologies.  • Expertise using IDE tools such as Notepad ++, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio code (VS Code), Sublime Text Editor, IntelliJ and Web Storm.  • Experience implementing unit test cases using Jasmine, Mocha Chai, Avoriaz, Karma and E2E testing using protractor.  • Participated in brainstorming sessions to analyze existing software for usability and accessibility issues.  • Excellent communication skills to discuss the projects with technical and non-technical SME's and also during the sprint meetings for Agile as well as Scrum development methodology.  • Strong Experience working directly with the external project team members (Clients, Consultants, Vendors, etc.) to capture their business processes and their requirements. Work Experience UI Developer IptiQ - Armonk, NY September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular 6 and Node JS.  • Created Responsive front-end Single Page Application (SPA) development using Angular, Node.js, Angular Material, Angular CLI.  • Designed and Implemented the enhanced development platform performance by doing POC using Component based development in view of future frameworks like Angular 5/6, and NodeJS.  • Developed multiple POCs to create an interface with routing, forms and integrating Restful api's using Angular 7.  • Experience with creating custom directives, decorators, and services to interface with both restful and SOA services.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as customer performs application tasks.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular6.  • Integrated RESTful services (API's) with the UI Components and Used JSON for data transfer between front end and back end.  • Used Angular Reactive forms to implement complex forms and performed the Angular 6 validation to validate user inputs and to create user-friendly web application using Form Builder.  • Implemented UI- slider functionality using Angular6 and improved performance of the application  • responsible for overseeing creation of external Hosted Pay Page (HPP) and Hosted Pay Form (iFrame) which integrated to payments gateway.  • Collected and projected fetched data into respective fields (textboxes, checkboxes, drop -down) using JSON objects.  • Implemented Angular 6 validation to validate user inputs and to create user-friendly web application.  • Authenticating Users and to provide the security to RESTful API's using OAuth 2.0 created using Node.js through OKTA Identity access.  • Managed day to day activities with OKTA API's, setting up the OKTA API tokens by generating token with using Authorization code  • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites and for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome/IE Developer Toolbar, and Augury for debugging/browser compatibility.  • Worked on VSTS, GIT as a version control and Used REST client / POSTMAN to check the response of various API's, Swagger UI as a visual documentation for back-end implementation and client-side consumption.  • Utilized NPM scripts for build and test environments in a Node.js application.  • Responsible of deploying web application existing in VSTS deployment groups over cloud services ( web and worker roles) on Azure.  • Developed the application using Agile Scrum methodology, Sprint meetings and attended daily standup meetings.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, TypeScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, SASS, Angular 6, Node.js, DB2, AJAX, JSON, REST APIs, JIRA, Agile scrum, Oauth2.0, Okta, GIT, VSTS, Azure, WebStorm, VS Code. Sr. UI Developer Caterpillar - Peoria, IL March 2018 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed front end architecture & UI templates for option trading application using Vue.js, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript.  • Developed CSS style to maintain uniformity of screens throughout application and position of screen objects.  • Maintained existing code with the help of HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript such that their code is cross browser compatible to work on different browsers on multiple devices.  • Used Vue.js events distribution and parent chain for parent-child component communication  • Worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Generated Vuex actions and mutations for every action type in order to accurate relay state changes and keep Vuex stores synchronized.  • Assist in creating Analytics pages by creating reusable chart components using Chart.js and Vue.js.  • Bring the front-end up-to-date with current technologies such as implementing Webpack, ESLint, Babel, Vue.js, Vue Router, Vetur and Vuex. Previously the web application, among other things, was not modular, used jQuery heavily, and no state management.  • Worked on Responsive web design (RWD) using bootstrap which adapts the layout to the viewing environment by using fluid, proportion-based grids, flexible images, and CSS3 media queries.  • Implemented authentication system using Local Storage on the client side and using third party Single Sign On (SSO) using OAuth 2.0, Redis (Session Store) on the server side.  • Worked with front end build environment of Grunt, Node JS and GIT version control system and also used Microsoft Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Maintained source code repository and facilitated the exchange between Team Foundation Service (TFS).  • Worked on different browsers like IE, Mozilla, Chrome and resolved cross browser issues related to HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implementing server APIs to communicate with the database and users by using MVC Web API  • Created unit testing using JUnit, Mocha chai, Avoriaz and Karma for each delivered Component/module.  • Integrated with Spring MVC using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (DI), and Spring Annotations.  • Configured Jenkins as a common build engine to build and deploy applications to DEV, QA and PROD environments.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript.  • Participated daily meetings and Weekly Sprint Retrospective Meetings to Brief on Technically Complex issues to the team and to the client.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Vue.js, Phantom.js Avoriaz, Vuex, Mocha, Chai, Web Services, Phantom, VSTS, MVC, Web Services, Jenkins, Microsoft Azure, OAuth, Spring Boot, Agile, Visual Studio. UI Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ January 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed with a modern front-end stack: JavaScript, React js, Bootstrap, CSS3, and HTML5 based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Developed single page application (SPA) using JavaScript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap for responsive web design to support usability in desktop, mobile, and tablet environments.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and business units.  • Implemented CSS Box Model and styled web pages using CSS preprocessor LESS and implemented Mix ins, functions, custom grid systems.  • Worked with ECMA Script 6 features. For build of JSX and ES2015 (ES6) used Babel, webpack and Maintain and extend existing legacy application using ES5 JavaScript.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Involved in building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Implemented various screens using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM library.  • Experience using React components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency and Created flux stores to migrate an existing flux app to redux.  • Extensive use of Higher Order Components in a React-Redux application.  • Worked on Search Engine Optimization tactics and Troubleshoot issues in Angular.js Applications.  • Performed unit test using Jasmine and Karma, integration testing Chrome Inspector to fix bugs and work close to QA  • Used Git, Postman, Visual Studio, Web Storm & SQL Server Management in daily development activities.  • Maintaining the source codes in Team Foundation Server (TFS) server for each change we made to the Sql objects & SSIS packages.  • Involved in integrating Restful web services by creating ASP.NET Web API back-end to handle requests from Node.js and React front-end.  • Implemented Agile and SCRUM methodology in the user modules to develop an efficient application and coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a test-driven development (TDD) approach.  • Tracking bugs using JIRA, broken links and missing images etc. and rectifying them through the work flow.  • Developed, tested, and deployed Storify Business feature set in Node.js with Express and Mongo DB backend, incorporating APIs from Twitter, Type kit, Stripe, and others for Storify features.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings for tracking progress on each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.    Environment: - HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular 2, React, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, Agile, Rest web service, .net, Asp.net MVC, Jenkins, NPM, Git, Jasmine, Node.js, Grunt, Gulp, Mongo DB, TDD, TFS, Microsoft Visual Studio. UI/UX Developer CVS Health - Denver, CO January 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities  • Designed and developed dynamic and multi-browser compatible web pages using front end technologies like UX Design tools, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AngularJS based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Worked closely and involved in UI reviews with architect and business units to collect UI & UX Requirements.  • Used Bootstrap for creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive Web design and media queries to style web pages.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for website and implemented it into final interface design using HTML5/CSS3 & JavaScript.  • Assisted in formulation and clear definition of system objectives and overall scope.  • Created Responsive Web Design and data manipulations to display data in company standard format in UI Using AngularJS.  • Utilized various jQuery plug-in to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Used AJAX for implementing functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  • Built different modules, controllers, templates, custom filters and directives in Angular JS.  • Developed Single page applications using Java script framework Angular JS.  • Designed web site mockups, navigation buttons, Etc. using Adobe Photoshop.  • Defined the site layout and developed Wireframes using Adobe Illustrator.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 & JavaScript using Dreamweaver.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS & JavaScript using Dreamweaver CS3.  • Worked on different browsers like IE Mozilla, Safari, and Chrome and handled numerous cross browser issues related to CSS and JavaScript.  • Created design mock-ups and wireframes using Axure, Adobe Photoshop CS4 and Dreamweaver CS3.  • Developed complete checkout process using different Angular.js modules and services by using dependency injection for creating controllers.  • Developed multiple POCs to create an interface between Backend to Frontend by using Angular JS.  • Generate reports of Company's management report such as inventory report, sales report and progress within their chosen project building programs.  • Used JSON for data exchange between the client and server.  • Used "git stash", to store the changes of the running project and involved in Code review sessions.  • Used Source Control Tools such as Team Foundation Server and maintain a Repository of the Application.  • JQuery validation and MVC 4.0 unobtrusive validation were used to validate form fields and provide custom requirements/error messages through C# attributes in the Model.  • Used SOAP-based Web Services and Web Service Clients (JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL, and JAXB).  • Developed and performed test cases using jasmine and Karma in the unit test and used the protractor and Http-server for the End2End testing and Testing Web services using Soap UI tool.  • Involved in integrating different modules and deploying to development, pre-production and production servers.  • Worked in Agile Environment and Contributed positively to the overall team and participated in stand-up meetings, planning, design and business-development working.    Environment: - HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular JS, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, SQL, Agile, MVC, SVN, Jasmine, Karma, Zeplin, Axure, GIS, Adobe photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft visual studio Web Developer Acme Group of Companies May 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked in a team using JavaScript and CSS such that their code is cross browser compatible as the students work on different browsers to develop a web page.  • Developed the App using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Backbone.js.  • Responsible for developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using Microsoft Visio and Gliffy.  • Developed dynamic webpages using JavaScript and Implemented jQuery creating behaviors of JavaScript.  • Made AJAX calls using backbone.js for getting the data and parsing it for showing on the web page.  • Used XML Web services with SOAP protocol for transferring data between different applications.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain uniformity of all screens throughout the application and screen objects.  • Maintained existing code with the help of HTML, CSS and jQuery.  • Used extensively AJAX concept of JavaScript using the XMLHttpRequest object to connect to external services to send and receive data in SOAP format.  • Utilized various jQuery plug-in to build Rich Internet Application to make it look more intuitive.  • Worked on different browsers like IE, Mozilla, Chrome and resolved cross browser issues related to CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Participated Weekly Meetings to Brief on Technically Complex issues to the team and to the client.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Backbone.js, XML, XSLT, AJAX, Soap web services, Apache, Gliffy. Vs code, Notepad, Eclipse IDE Jr. Web Developer Magnaquest Technologies June 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked within a team of front-end developers to build UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations, jQuery and XML.  • Constructed presentation layer implementation using DHTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the Business requirements and Gathered information for enhancing the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Developed HTML and CSS web pages from scratch images that were provided by the UX Designer.  • Code on Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure. Defined text alignment, size, borders and many other typographic characteristics.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation on client side.  • Created HTML navigation menu, in which the role-based menu items changes dynamically, derived from database in the form of XML.  • Used jQuery to make HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web page.  • Cross-browser compatible (Firefox/IE /Safari), standards compliant table-less websites in HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • AJAX training and implemented it to communicate with servers.  • Participated actively in code reviews to understand functional design and business process flow of system.    Environment: - HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, DHTML, jQuery, XML, Eclipse IDE, Adobe Photoshop, Windows XP.VS Code, notepad. Education Master's in computer science in computer science University of Central Missouri August 2015 to December 2016 Skills .NET (2 years), Adobe Photoshop. (2 years), AJAX (6 years), Apache (2 years), Backbone (2 years), Bootstrap (3 years), CSS (6 years), database (2 years), DHTML (1 year), Eclipse (4 years), GIT (2 years), HTML (7 years), HTML5 (3 years), JavaScript (7 years), jQuery (7 years), JSON (3 years), Microsoft Visual Studio (2 years), Photoshop. (2 years), Visual Studio (2 years), XML (4 years), Front End, React, UI, Angular, Front-End