Cyber Security Intern Cyber Security Intern Cyber Security Developer Naperville, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Intern Impact Networking, LLC - Bolingbrook, IL June 2019 to Present Develop in house security audit tools  Deploy/provision cloud/local servers  Research new solutions Web Developer / System Administrator Freelance January 2013 to Present * Web Developer  1. Developed websites based off of client’s description using javascript, html, css, and bash  2. Worked with various templating engines such as Wordpress and Bootstrap  3. Integrated with Google Maps API    *System Administrator  1. Setup a LAMP environment from scratch for hosting  2. Setup a mail server for custom emails with a custom domain  3. Created tools to automate mundane tasks  4. Heavy use of the command line Web Developer Illinois State - Normal, IL May 2015 to May 2016 1. Maintained, upgraded, and migrated servers  2. Developed dynamic websites using the twig template engine  3. Developed tools using GatherContent’s API to improve the team’s productivity  4. Windows system administration  5. Debugged issues server and client side  6. Collaborating on projects using Git. Education Bachelor's in progress in Cyber Security Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT October 2017 to October 2020 Associates of Science in Computer Science Waubonsee Community College - Sugar Grove, IL Skills Linux (5 years), PHP (5 years), HTML 5 (5 years), Wordpress (1 year), Bootstrap (2 years), Python (3 years), Bash (5 years), Javascript (2 years), Network Security, Information Security, Cyber Security, It Security Links https://github.com/pushigoh Certifications/Licenses CIW Web Foundations Associate February 2018 to Present Additional Information *ISU Security Club - Vice President  1. Created and gave demonstrations in front of the club  2. Worked with the president to create plans for future talks/demos  3. Setup Linux servers to be used in demonstrations  4. Worked one on one with club members to teach them how to troubleshoot their problems    *High School Cyber Defense Competition - Red/White Team  --White Team  1. Walked students through basic Linux system administration  2. Worked with organizers to resolve reported errors on our end  3. Gave tips to Blue Team to teach them how to troubleshoot their own problems  --Red Team  1. Used tools such as nmap and Metasploit to exploit vulnerabilities on Blue Teams servers.  2. Created phishing emails to be sent to Blue Team  3. Implemented social engineering techniques to gain additional information on Blue Team’s machines    *Redbird Hacks - Operations Staff  1. Worked with sponsors to satisfy their needs  2. Helped design the Redbird Hacks merchandise  3. Helped physically set up and run the event