UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - AAMC Washington, DC ? Over 9+ years of extensive experience as a UI Developer with solid understanding of database designing, development, JavaScript Libraries and installation of different modules.  ? Specialized in development and implementation of Application, mobile and Web based Technology Solutions using Architecture Frameworks.  ? Experienced in using Angular 2/4/6, Typescript, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS, Node JS, Bootstrap, JSON, HTML 4/5, and CSS3.  ? Experience building dashboards and websites in Responsive Design  ? Expert level knowledge in AWS cloud services in the category of deployment.  ? Developed User Interface utilizing HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, Node.js with JavaScript and MVVM framework for view models while integrating jQuery, AJAX and JSON to call Web API methods.  ? Experience in applying the latest development approaches including MVC in the browser, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML, Node.js, Angular.js.  ? Knowledge dealing with the databases using Oracle, MySQL and NoSQL database using MongoDB.  ? Familiarity working with RESTful Web Services and implementing RESTful API's & frameworks like SOAP, REST.  ? Knowledge in Design and creating RESTful APIs using Spring Boot Framework  ? Involvement in using various IDE's, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Microsoft Visual Studio, Sublime Text, Web Storm, Eclipse, and Adobe Photoshop.  ? Experience of working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like Grunt.  ? Extensive experience in developing web pages quickly and effectively using jQuery and in making web pages with cross browser compatible.  ? Used Angular modules like Angular-animate, Angular-Cookies, Angular-Filter, Angular-Mocks, Angular - Resource, Angular- Route, Angular-Sanitize, Angular-Touch and Angular-UI-Bootstrap.  ? Extensively used Node.js tools like Gulp, Grunt, Web pack, developed internal CLI applications using Commander Module for application build.  ? Worked extensively in Agile Development process.  ? Using React.js to implement rich functions in various pages, form validation, crud, grid list, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input.  ? Deep understanding in implementing the business rules in different layers like UI, services and backend database.  ? Implemented generating the verification hash code using crypto package on Node.JS and added user validations and user permissions by using the Node.js.  ? Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  ? Experience working on scalable environment using Agile/SCRUM, Waterfall for Test driven development (TDD) methodologies and web application development.  ? Experience with Version Control tools like GITHUB, and SVN for Source Code version management and merging Source code after intermittent Project releases.  ? Experience with build tools such as ANT & MAVEN.  ? Extensively worked on Jenkins, Maven, and Bamboo for continuous integration and developed End-to-End automation solution for build and deployments.  ? Good Experience in working with Firebug for Mozilla and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer, Web Inspector for Safari, Developer Toolbar for Chrome.  ? Knowledge in all stages of testing namely usability testing, Functional testing, Performance testing, Integration testing, Regression testing and User Acceptance testing.  ? Involved in Clear case to GitHub migration of the project code and set Continuous Integration management using Jenkins. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer AAMC - Washington, DC June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in requirement gathering, designing, development, deployment and maintenance.  ? Designed and developed the agent portal using framework Angular, Angular 4 along with HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS.  ? The application is made responsive using CSS3, preprocessors like SASS, Bootstrap, and media queries to support desktop and tablets.  ? Written modular, secure, and well-tested front-end code in HTML5 and CSS using the latest web.  ? Implemented Angular 6 component router for navigation.  ? Implemented Angular 6 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs.  ? Developed Views and Templates with Python and Website interface is created using Django's view controller and template.  ? Used Angular 4 Reactive forms to implement complex forms and performed the validations using Form Builder.  ? Working Experience on Angular 2, Angular 4, HTML5, CSS3. Additional frameworks like Bootstrap for responsive design, less for preprocessing are used.  ? Worked with existing style sheets to implement SASS  ? Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  ? Implemented Restful API from core using Angular Framework.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation and form validation using Angular 4.  ? Built single page application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make dynamic by using Angular 4 framework and Node Js  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 4.  ? Worked within AGILE team environment and participated in multiple scrum meetings to discuss planning and development needs for current cycle  ? Created a build process for different environments like develop, staging and production.  ? Demonstrated knowledge of code reviews, unit and regression testing.  ? Involved in writing test cases using Jasmine to ensure 100% code coverage.  ? Used GIT for source control and JIRA for tracking purposes.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, Java, Angular 2, Angular4, Agile, Adobe Photoshop, Bootstrap, REST API's, Webpack, Oracle, Jasmine, Karma, NPM, GIT, JIRA, MAC and Visual Studio. UI Developer Hewlett Packard - Herndon, VA June 2016 to May 2018 It is a suite to support set of HPE web applications, API and Data. Where the application helps the data scientists and employees of Hewlett Packard to use the Elastic search and find the data which is present in the database. Single sign will enable each user to sign in to the account and create their own profile. Every user can create their own customized look for the website and see the most recent items and the list of the downloads. So, the Application has the different kind of filters which helps the user with better search options. It has various components such as SSO, Elastic search, filters and items list.    Responsibilities:  ? Spearhead development of a robust new EA Marketplace to support a suite of HPE related web applications APIs. It enables data scientists and employees to find a set of API and data through Elastic search that does heavy-lifting behind the scenes while presenting simple, documented APIs.  ? Being Agile was involved in all aspects of the project right from requirements phase to production support.  ? Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, Layout and front-end programming for web application that matches requirements of HP company.  ? Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX  ? Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery  ? Used wireframes and style guides given by UX designer for layout and styling for webpages.  ? Developed GUI using HTML, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, and JSP in ongoing projects.  ? Converted the mockups (Wireframe) into hand written HTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, XML and JSON.  ? Performed form validations using reactive forms for sign in and inputting ticket rising information from Angular4.0 framework.  ? Constructed powerful and modern Frontend Architecture, involving React, Redux, and ES6.  ? Used Backbone.js and React.JS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server  ? A Single Sign on (SSO) was created to so that users can login in to the page.  ? Involved JQuery, a cross browser JavaScript library to dynamically update the page content on the client side.  ? Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build MVC Architecture with Angular.JS  ? Created a CSS framework for using a 12-column grid preferred by the designers as well as implementing parts of Object-Oriented CSS to cut down on repetitive code.  ? Used Grommet UI to build custom React components to design homepage Dropdown, Navigation system and Grid layouts.  ? Designed new classes and functionalities using JQuery components for SAP CRM applications for customer services.  ? Following Scrum methodology to track the project details and updating the development status every day in the SCRUM.  ? Used the Ajax to make the service calls from the webpage using JQuery without performing a browser refresh.  ? Experience in making responsive web pages using Twitter Bootstrap.  ? Handling cross browser/platforms compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, Chrome, Safari)  ? Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing  ? Used firebug and web Developer toolbar for finding and fixing bugs.  ? Collaborate with the application architect and backend developers on JSON API design.  Used Chrome developer tools for debugging and browser compatibility.  ? Worked on project estimation that included team members, and the development hours required.  Environment: HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, OOCSS, React.JS, BackBone.JS, Angular.JS, Angular2/4, Redux, GIT, Bootstrap, AJAX, UI, Docker JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, SAP, Sublime Text. UI Developer Aclara Technologies - St. Louis, MO December 2014 to May 2016 Aclara is the world Trading company which is in providing advanced metering infrastructure to electric, gas and water utilities. Which also includes providing a web interface to track and monitor residential and commercial meters, provide a portal for automated billing, establishing a secure database to store meter and residential usage & billing details. As a developer, my objective was to design responsive and interactive user interface, that presented the meter and usage data in a creative and intuitive manner, while not compromising on the data latency and data integrity. This project was to develop and support multiple software products related to utility industry. It includes the development and support for communication systems distributed to a large customer base. Systems also consist of an ever-increasing set of custom hardware and firmware that must be supported by the software products, improve efficiency, reliability and overall performance of network.    Responsibilities:  ? Reviewing business requirements and functional designs for application.  ? Working as a UI Developer for the single page application (SPA) developed using Angular JS framework targeting all modern web browsers.  ? Creating HTML Markups using responsive web design approach with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery.  ? Created various Modules, controller and components for the entire application using Angular 2.  ? Developed REST architecture-based web services to facilitate communication between client and server.  ? Using object-oriented programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the web application  ? Proficient at using React JS to render some advanced components on the server side, along with Flux pattern and Redux library  ? Worked with SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 and created databases, tables, views queries, sub queries, stored procedures and triggers on the database tables.  ? Created Angular JS controllers, services and used Angular JS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  ? Developed custom directives to be reused across different modules in the application.  ? Using LESS CSS to simplify CSS development & maintenance.  ? CSS Media queries are used to develop single responsive application with good user experience in all platforms like desktop, tablets and mobile phones.  ? Experience in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance and extensive experience with Agile.  ? Successfully integrating front end code with server side.  ? Good experience on version control systems GIT, CVS, SVN and package managers like Bower, NPM and Adobe DTM.  ? Analyzing cross browser, device specific issues and providing solutions within the timelines  ? Ensured all the deliverables within the timelines with accuracy.  Environment: AngularJS 1.6, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, React JS, AJAX, CSS LESS, Node.js, Grunt JS, GIT, and JIRA. UI Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA May 2012 to November 2014 Vanguard is the one of the largest and most respectable investment companies. There are around 15,000 members in 16 locations worldwide This project is a loan system which is used across the world for ARIS. There is a collateral module which always keeps tracks of all the collateral submitted by customer against the loan, the approval model which make a decision maker for loan processing. Activity module keeps the track of insurance and document keeps track of all other documents, Profile management and early warning and remedial.    Responsibilities:  ? Constantly participated in Idealization meetings to share ideas.  ? Working with React JavaScript library for building User interfaces.  ? Used React.js to build the UI components, developed filters to display different dimensions of data and font size modifiers.  ? Utilized Angular to build reusable components with JSX resulting in optimized rendering and performance.  ? Implemented React component routing using conditional state management methods to render appropriate pages.  ? Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  ? Used Bootstrap and React to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  ? Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  ? Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap, custom media queries, with brand appropriate styles.  ? Involved in debugging HTML5, CSS3 and JS code using tools such as Chrome Inspector, Firefox Firebug.  ? Created web pages using Media Queries and Twitter Bootstrap that cater to Android and IOS web platforms.  ? Writing unit test with Jest to ensure robust code quality. Used GIT to do the coding record and version control.  ? Participated in AGILE SCRUM meetings, sprint planning sessions and retrospective meetings during the 2-week sprint cycles  Environment: HTML, CSS3, Vanilla JavaScript, ES6, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON/XML, GIT, Jasmin. UI/ Web Developer H&R Block January 2011 to February 2012 Client is a tax preparation company through over the world calming more than 22 million customers worldwide, with all different locations in India, Canada, Australia, and the United Kingdom. The company is offers all the banking, Personal Finance and business Consulting services. The task is to develop of Tax portal for exposing the java- all the web services are exposed via WCF communicated to Java World.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Involved in developing design specifications, website architecture and web application based on the provided functional and requirements and design layout.  ? Developed the web application using ASP.NET, HTML and JavaScript, CSS.  ? Used JavaScript as the scripting language and is used for detecting the visitor's browser, validating the forms, providing event functions, animation etc.  ? Developed the front end of the portal using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS.  ? Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for styling and to achieve uniformity.  ? Used JavaScript to provide AJAX functionality to make website perform better for image loading and for dynamic loading of the web page without refreshing.  ? DOM is used to parse the xml documents.  ? Creation of various levels of users for system with preferences.  ? Version control maintained through Visual Source Safe. And Involved in setting up the environment, installing the application and web servers.  Environment: Net 2.0/3.0, ASP.NET, MS SQL 2008, HTML AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, DOM, XML, VSS.  Project: Report Analysis Application UI/ Web Developer Medicare September 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Used Microsoft Visio for designing the Use Case Diagrams, Class model, Sequence diagrams, and Activity diagrams for SDLC process of the application.  ? HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, XML, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap  ? Front End/ UI developing using JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3  ? Design and build UI on any server platform in a team environment.  ? Implementation of browser-server interactions, DOM manipulation, AJAX libraries and tools  ? Create web application front end as per design comps & information architect.  ? Integrated front-end application with the application business layer.  ? Experience in developing front-end applications with cross-browser support & responsive design experience  ? Designing, common web design patterns and MVC modeling  ? Had to write clean, readable bug free and production grade code  ? Follow best practices and standards for accessibility and cross-browser compatibility  ? Stick to established coding standards and group procedures individually and in teams.  ? The role requires constant interaction with other in the team  ? Gathered requirements, manage a team and deliver  ? Strong verbal and written communication skills, a great team player, experienced in working with agile teams. Collaborated closely with developers and UX designers.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, JQuery, AJAX, Adobe Dreamweaver, Firebug, SQL, Windows XP and MS Office. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (8 years), Apache (Less than 1 year), AWS (Less than 1 year), Backbone (2 years), databases (1 year), HTML (9 years), HTML5 (6 years), IOS (2 years), Java (1 year), JavaScript (9 years), JQuery (4 years), JSON. (5 years), JSP (2 years), MAC (Less than 1 year), Oracle (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), SQL (3 years), UNIX (3 years), web services (2 years), XML (7 years)