Team Lead/ Web Developer - Client Co-ordinator Team Lead/<span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Client Co-ordinator Web Developer - Team Lead Cary, NC Professional Summary  * 6.5 years of professional work experience in Microsoft .Net Technologies in complete  Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) ranging from analysis, requirement engineering,  architecture design, database design, development, enhancements and maintenance if  standalone, N-tier windows and web-based applications.  * Expertise in Windows and Web Applications using .NET Framework 4.5,4.0 3.5, 3.0 & 2.0,  C#.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, AJAX, MVC, LINQ, Cold Fusion,  Dependency Injection.  * Very familiar with Object Oriented methodologies.  * Expertise in developing Graphical User Interfaces using ASP.NET, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery,  JavaScript, Bootstrap, AJAX.  * Good knowledge in Web API, Web Services.  * Experience in Database Design, Query Optimization and Implementation of database objects  like Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers using MS SQL Server.  * Worked extensively with Dataset, Data Reader and Data Adapter as part of ADO.NET for  Database Optimization.  * Used versioning tools Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual Source Safe(VSS)  and SVN for version controlling of the Application.  * Also worked on JIRA issue tracking tool.  * Currently leading the team of 6 members in a development project of Textron Aviation client.  * Excellent analytical skills with proficiency in debugging and Problem solving.  * Ability to quickly grasp any new technologies and concepts and willingness to learn new  things  * Effective in working independently and collaboratively in teams.  * Responsibilities include  Understanding the Business requirements and client meetings  Application Architecture & development  Database strategy and data migration  Team leader, Offshore coordination.  Unit and integration testing  Process and productivity improvement  Support and Maintenance    Career Profile  Dates Organization Role  Since October 2012 TATA Consultancy Web Developer  Services Limited Work Experience Team Lead/ Web Developer - Client Co-ordinator Textron Aviation April 2018 to May 2019 Company Tata Consultancy Services  Technology MVC C#, SQL, LINQ, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap.  Role Team Lead/ Web Developer - Client Co-ordinator  Responsibilities Project: This was a migration project from VB.Net to MVC C#. Main objective was to make application faster, user friendly and to combine 2 different existing boards.  The application is used for tracking and visibility of priority AOG Aftermarket orders in the Lawson system. Involved in analysis of business requirement.  • Co-ordinate and conduct meetings with Application owners or stakeholders.  • Requirement Gathering & Analysis.  • Involved in the designing of database architecture  • Handled the development of chart, reports and data updating module.  • Developed user interfaces.  • Coordinating with offshore team and assigning the tasks.  • Involved in unit testing. Team Lead/ Web Developer - Client Co-ordinator Textron Aviation February 2018 to April 2018 Technology MVC C#, SQL, LINQ, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap.  Role Team Lead/ Web Developer - Client Co-ordinator  Responsibilities Project: This was a migration project from VB.Net to MVC C#. Main objective was to make application faster and to fetch the data from different sources automatically.  • Co-ordinate and conduct meetings with Application owners or stakeholders.  • Requirement Gathering & Analysis.  • Handled the development of Overall design and the Updating the details in different source systems.  • Developed user interfaces.  • Coordinating with team and assigning the tasks.  • Involved in unit testing. Team Lead/ Web Developer - Client Co-ordinator Textron Aviation November 2017 to January 2018 Technology MVC C#, SQL, LINQ, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap.  Role Team Lead/ Web Developer - Client Co-ordinator  Responsibilities Project: The project was to allow the Suppliers of Textron aviation to submit survey within the specified approval period. And allowing the approver to either approve  their reject their survey form.  • Co-ordinate and conduct meetings with Application owners or stakeholders.  • Requirement Gathering & Analysis.  • Handled the development of Overall design and the Updating the details in different source systems.  • Developed user interfaces.  • Coordinating with team and assigning the tasks.  • Involved in unit testing. Team Lead/ Web Developer - Client Co-ordinator Textron Aviation September 2017 to October 2017 Duration 09/01/2017 - 10/30/2017    Project Title Product Classification, Supplier Rating System  Client Textron Aviation  Company Tata Consultancy Services  Technology MVC C#, SQL, LINQ, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap.  Role Team Lead/ Web Developer - Client Co-ordinator  Responsibilities Project: This was a migration project from VB.Net to MVC C#. The applications  included generation of some reports for the suppliers based on the rating period, and Classification of Aircraft Products based on the part number a, model and serial  number details.  • Co-ordinate and conduct meetings with Application owners or stakeholders.  • Requirement Gathering & Analysis.  • Handled the development of Overall design and the Updating the details in different source systems.  • Developed user interfaces.  • Coordinating with team and assigning the tasks.  • Involved in unit testing. Web Developer Textron Aviation August 2017 to August 2017 Duration 08/01/2017 -08/31/2017    Project Title Bell Helicopter - Application Support & Maintenance  Client BELL Helicopter Inc, US  Company Tata Consultancy Services  Technology MVC C#, SQL, LINQ, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, Cold fusion, Apex, PHP.  Role Web Developer  Responsibilities Project: Bell Helicopter is a Support and Maintenance project. The project scope  includes around 92 applications. TCS provides various services to these  applications. The services include documentation, resolving the defects, enhancing or changing functionality, improving user experience for these applications. These  services are provided by TCS on any technology that is used by the application.  • Co-ordinate and conduct meetings with Application owners or stakeholders.  • Requirement Gathering & Analysis.  • Preparing high & low-level design documents.  • Development of various modules using C#, ASP.Net, created JavaScript and jQuery components.  • Unit testing, integration tests and preparing the Test Case documents  • Reviewing the deliverables to ensure good quality of it.  • Prepare the deliverables and send it to onsite team for deployment.  • Responsible for supporting the application and maintenance.    Applications 1.Migration of BELL Customer application from Cold fusion to MVC.  Worked on in Bell 2. Language translation to French and Spanish for Process Improvement application.  Helicopter 3. Added a new module in Contact Manager, which includes functionalities such as creating new groups, adding contacts and location to it, generating Json files and  sending emails.  4. Worked on a major Enhancement in ROC Forecast, added some new actions to a DEV Express grid for editing and deleting records.  5. Worked on Apex applications.    Activities • JIRA tool is used by Bell team to create and assign tickets.  • Once the tickets have come to TCTS queue. Analysis will be done.  • Verify if it is bug or Change request, based on that prepare estimation, requirement  analysis document and Impact analysis documents.  • Discuss with customer in case of more clarifications and explain the analysis  document.  • Upon approval from customer, changes can be done in the code, database, and servers.  • Perform Unit Testing, Prepare Test Case documents.  • Change the ticket status in JIRA tool and ask the BELL deployment team to deploy  the changes to production.  • Inform the customer to verify the changes. Web Developer Textron Aviation November 2015 to July 2017 Technology ASP.Net, C#, SQL, LINQ, JavaScript, jQuery, Entity Framework, HTML  Role Web Developer  Responsibilities Project: The application was used by International Strategic Partnerships in Boeing  Défense Systems (BDS) to manage Industrial Participation (IP). System has IP  contracts with numerous countries around the world. It should keep the track and report obligation status to authorized agents of the countries owed the obligations.  The information on the IP activity is reported to organizational and executive-level  Boeing management for strategic purposes.  It also produces customized reports to the government agencies of their prospective  countries.    • Understand business requirements.  • Development & maintenance.  • Interact with Onsite team and client in case of any clarification.  • Unit Testing, Integration Testing. Preparing Test documents. Web Developer Textron Aviation December 2013 to October 2015 Technology ASP.Net, C#, SQL, LINQ, JavaScript, jQuery, Entity Framework, HTML  Role Web Developer  Responsibilities Project: Visiting Information System (VIS) is used by International Strategic  Partnerships in Boeing Systems (BDS) to manage visiting information of Boeing  users and guests. It keeps the track of Hotel Reservations, Activities and Transportations to be done. It also produces customized reports for their prospective  regions. Its Front-End uses ASP.NET & Back-End as SQL Server. It's a web  application.    • Understand business requirements.  • Development & maintenance.  • Interact with Onsite team and client in case of any clarification.  • Unit Testing, Integration Testing. Preparing Test documents.    Duration 09/01/2013 -11/30/2013 PL/SQL Developer SQL Management Studio Express 2008 to 2010 * Win Form * Adobe Dreamweaver    * Jquery  Other Developer Tools  * Web API, Web Services  * Internet Explorer Developer Toolbar - Internet  Languages  Explorer Add-in  * C, C#  * Chrome Developer Toolbar - Chrome Add-in  * VB Other Tools  * SQL  * JIRA  * Oracle  * Team Foundation Server  * HTML, Bootstrap  * SVN  * JavaScript  * Visual Source Safe  * CSS Software Methodology  * Cold fusion  * Water Fall  * Apex * Agile  Databases  Domain  * Microsoft SQL Server  * Oracle * Manufacturing    Projects Handled  Project Title Schedule 2 Plus  Client Textron Aviation  Company Tata Consultancy Services  Technology MVC C#, SQL, LINQ, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap.  Role Team Lead/ Web Developer - Client Co-ordinator  Responsibilities Project: This was a migration project from PHP to MVC C#. The application is used  for scheduling the maintenance services for the aircrafts that come for maintenance, displaying each aircraft details on the calendar page and generating  capacity and some Ad-hoc reports using ABCPdf.  • Co-ordinate and conduct meetings with Application owners or stakeholders.  • Requirement Gathering & Analysis.  • Involved in the designing of database architecture  • Handled the development of chart, reports and data updating module.  • Developed user interfaces.  • Coordinating with offshore team and assigning the tasks.  • Involved in unit testing. Education Bachelor's Skills Javascript, HTML5, Angular, Front End, Angularjs, Jquery Additional Information Technical Skills  Below is a list of important Technologies, hardware, software products, tools and methods that I have  worked with.    Resume Suman Mavanuri