Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Los Angeles, CA Hello my name is Ciprian Cirdei.   I have over a year of web development experience. I built 4 websites with my knowledge and experience which are listed in my portfolio, the link to my portfolio is listed below. I'm currently a Delivery Truck Driver and I have lengthy and diverse work experience, but mostly specializing in the area of Transportation. I decided to make a drastic career change, fulfill my dreams and seek a career as a Web Developer. I have been studying and developing websites for over a year for local customers.    My portfolio and can be seen at: https://chipcoder64.github.io/My-Portfolio/    Core Compentecies include HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, CSS Grid, CSS Flexbox, and Vanilla JavaScript. I have basic knowledge of the following JavaScript Libraries and Frameworks which includes: jQuery, Angular.js, React.js. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Self-Employed - Los Angeles, CA October 2018 to Present I'm a part-time self employed Freelance Web Developer. And my full-time job is a local truck driver. I Design and Develop Web Sites for local customers, using Html, Css, Bootstrap, jQuery, and Javascript. Contact with customers to inquire Business needs to build Web Site or update information. Delivery Driver Alberts Organics - Vernon, CA August 2013 to Present Delivering fresh produce to customers, unloading produce at different locations using a pallet jack and lift gate. Offering friendly and excellent customer service and help whenever necessary. Following DOT Rules and Regulations while safely operating a tractor trailer combination vehicle. Pick-up back-haul after the route is complete and finally to bring it back to the warehouse to be prepared for other customers. Learning Web Development while waiting at pickup locations. Education Non-Degree in Computer Science Chaffey College - Rancho Cucamonga, CA January 2010 to June 2010 Skills HTML 5 (1 year), CSS3 (1 year), Javascript (1 year), React.js (Less than 1 year), Node.js (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), JQuery (Less than 1 year), Wordpress, Angular, PHP, HTML5, Front End, HTML, Angularjs Links http://www.chipdecoder.tk Certifications/Licenses JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures May 2019 to Present 300 hours of coursework in JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures Front End Libraries May 2019 to Present 300 hours of coursework in Front End Libraries. Responsive Web Design March 2019 to Present 300 hours of coursework in Responsive Web Design.