Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Des Moines, IA Full stack lead application developer with more than six years of programming experience. Proficient in multiple programming languages and experience building applications from scratch. Strong communication skills and aptitude for learning and innovation. Analytical thinker, skilled at identifying and executing creative solutions. Work Experience Senior Web Developer Moritz Company June 2011 to Present • Involved in all aspects of development, from conception to deployment.  • Developed and maintained complex, integrated, responsive software applications in a web environment.  • Worked on both front-end UI as well as back-end MVC architecture and relational database.  • Maintained multiple Elastic Beanstalk environments (scaling EC2 instances) in Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Optimized MySQL queries on several heavily data-driven pages to reduce load times from over 5 seconds to less than 0.1 seconds.  • Worked with a variety of clientele.  • Utilized project management skills and operations analysis to ensure client and end-user satisfaction.  • Analyzed business processes and user needs to define functional requirements and technical specifications in a user-friendly web application.  • Deployed biweekly application releases including QA, canary, and prod environments.  • Maintained and monitored back-end analytics, performance tuning, and debugging.  • As part of a two-person team, we completed over 1800 Trello tickets in two years' time.  • Example applications built from scratch include: http://www.svo.sh (login credentials on request), http://rankedchoices.com, and www.BootsAndDaisyDukes5k.com.  • Built webapps with Ruby on Rails, Sails, Yii, Node, Python, and more. Lead Web Developer Principal Financial Group - Des Moines, IA May 2015 to August 2019 • Part of front-end development team, maintained web applications used by millions of participants.   • Extensive work with Javascript including Angular, React, Dust, & custom frameworks, as well as work with Java developers for RESTful services, including SpringBoot.  • Built asynchronous communication with back-end using AJAX to provide seamless real-time user experiences.  • At the request of management, put together presentations and taught classes to co-workers on various front-end topics.  • Frequently called upon to lead or assist with the lead on significant projects, including for example, implementation of i18n language conversion to provide a Spanish onboarding experience.  • Refactor existing applications to fix problems and improve code efficiency.  • Design and maintain in-house tools for various components including sorting and organizing.  • Work with UX team and help build functioning prototypes.  • Participate in hackathons both for Principal and the Des Moines community.  • Daily stand-ups and PI planning with leadership.  • Used JIRA for bug/task tracking and time tracking.  • Worked in Agile environment with sprints process.  • Traveled to national conferences to further skills.  • Built voice recognition applications using Alexa.  • Analyzed application performance and identifying performance bottlenecks using Dynatrace.  • Implemented new requirements in existing Angular, Dust, JSF and XSLT apps.  • Worked in projects following Scaled Agile Framework (SAF) methodologies.  • Lead architect on internal Femur framework. Lead Software Engineer Mittera Group - Des Moines, IA July 2014 to May 2015 • Worked closely with clients to determine needs and build custom web applications.  • Designed layout, UX, functionality, and appropriate technologies.  • Provided architectural input for new applications.  • Maintained legacy applications, refactor, and update as needed.  • Traveled to onsite locations and developed custom solutions for both physical and digital environments.  • Built on Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Used powerful frameworks like Wordpress and Yii.  • Example MUDDtrac application can be viewed on its Quality Assurance site qa.muddtrac.colorfx.net (request credentials).  • Maintained stable support for several custom web applications, both internal and customer facing. Skills Git (6 years), Javascript (6 years), Bootstrap (7 years), Php (7 years), Ruby (2 years), AWS (4 years), Angular (3 years), Jquery (6 years), Node (4 years), React (Less than 1 year) Links https://github.com/DavidMoritz http://www.svo.sh/ http://rankedchoices.com/ Groups Front-End Teacher with Tech Journey July 2018 to Present Volunteer teacher of youth program, teaching coding principles concepts to underprivileged students that show promise in STEM. Additional Information References    Jonathan Gardner - (918) 978-9825 - Director of Technology at Success Vision    Eric Ponto - (319) 431-7420 - Tech Lead at Principal    Jeremy Witte - (515) 868-7209 - VP of Information Technology at Mittera Group