Sr. Android Developer Sr. Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Android Developer - General Electric Philadelphia, PA • Over 8+ years of experience as a software developer as an Application Developer in designing & developing Rich User Interface applications, integrating with various Databases, Client - Server applications.  • Complete Software Development Life Cycle experience in fast paced environments, which includes designing and implementing the software, debugging, fixing and maintaining the software.  • Used the version controller GITHUB in order to collaborate with the team.  • Merging code using GITHUB. & used Agile Methodology.  • Extensive experience in application development for mobile platform (IPhone/IPad) using Objective-C, Swift and Cocoa Touch.  • Built native IOS and Android applications using Android SDK, IOS SDK in Xamarin.  • Built the hybrid applications by using the Ionic Frame work and in both Android Studio and Xcode.  • Sound Knowledge and good working experience on launched IOS and on Swift programming language.  • Experience with Xcode, Interface Builder, Instruments, Mobility Tester and Static Analyzer including development, debugging, profiling, optimizing, and build process.  • Experienced in all aspects of IPhone, IPad and IPod Mini application development including designing for all types of screen sizes and orientations.  • Experience in IOS Provisioning Portal and the processes involved in it.  • Design and Implementation of the AIDL service responsible for the Video frame capturing service using android Camera 2 API and integrated video steaming library.  • Extensive knowledge in the following Frameworks: IPhone SDK, UIKit, Map Kit, Web Kit, Audio Toolbox, AV Foundation, Cocoa design patterns and concepts like delegation, protocols and categories, Core foundation, Core Data, Core Location, Core services, Core Graphics, Core animation, Quartz core, Address Book and Message.  • Mobile application Development using Xamarin  • Created and Customized Views, Table views, Collection Views, Action Sheets, Segmented Controls, Tab Bars and Navigation Bars.  • Knowledge to build apps with Xamarin Studio and Cordova.  • Excellent technical knowledge of Java for Android, Android SDK and Android Studio  • Experienced in working with various data parsing forms to display data on IPhone/IPad such as XML and JSON from server, created and customized Views, Table Views, Collection views, action sheets, segmented controls, Tab Bars and Navigation Bars.  • Highly capable in integrating Game center, Push Notifications, and Network Connectivity.  • Strong understanding of managing Development Certificate, Creating App IDs, Assigning Devices, provisioning portal, Installing Development Provisioning Profitless certification for push notification and iTunes connect for deploying applications to the app store.  • Working knowledge of Mac OS-X 10.6, 10.7 and recently 10.8.  • Working knowledge of HTML/CSS/Javascript  • Hands on experience in building and deploying tools like ANT and MAVEN as well as version control using SVN/Subversion, Rational Clear Case, CVS and VSS, GIT.  • Ability to perform analyzing tool to debug and perform memory management.  • Proficient in using Instruments for memory leaks/ memory management and performance analysis.  • Complete understanding of Object Oriented Features (Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation)  • Experience working in Agile SCRUM, Waterfall, and TDD environments.  • Planning and conducting user research and usability tests, documenting, communicating and acting upon the results.  • Thrives on cooperation, problem solving, dealing with ambiguity, and working with little direction when necessary. Work Experience Sr. Android Developer General Electric - Charlotte, NC April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing a cross-platform mobile application which can run on both iOS and Windows platforms from the architecture of the application to implementing it by using Xamarin Studio.  • Worked on threading and performance tuning to make the application to run faster.  • Constructing http requests, fetching server response and parsing feeds wherever required.  • Worked on Appium and Automation testing in order to test the user interface of the mobile application.  • Used Jenkins plugin which adds the ability to call Xcode command line tools to automate build and packaging iOS applications, worked with networking framework MK Network Kit.  • Used bottom line responsibility to develop coding in the project for this current application.  • Worked on NF Networking and NSURL Sessions for this application as per the requirement from the client.  • Knowledge of XML, SWIFT and FIX protocol  • JavaScript Frameworks (Knockout, jQuery), HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Responsive Web Design using Zurb Foundation or Twitter Bootstrap frameworks.  • Experience with Core Data, SQLite, MapKit, Quartz Core, Core Animation, Store Kit.  • Strong Knowledge and Proven experience utilizing the platform Xamarin  • Implemented SQLite databases to monitor shipments.  • Design, develop, test and release Android SDKs for Mobile Apps, adapt and revise plans  • Experience in integrating sensor components and implementation of sensor HAL Layer on android.  • Implemented customized web view component to load an SWF file and HTML data.  • Handling XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser.  • Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  • Assisted with iPhone/iPad/Mac system rollout to executives and provided ongoing Level 2 support for all Apple devices  • Strong understanding of building Android applications in JAVA using the Android SDK and Android Studio  • Deep knowledge of Android SDK (Activity lifecycle, Fragments, XML Layouts, FCM/GCM Push Notifications, Constraint Layouts, Material Widgets, media, camera, contacts, location, maps, and intents)  • Web development experience (focus on front end and JavaScript) to be able to write demos and debug web applications  • Worked on debugging the application using Log cat, DDMS.  • Used Java script in the backend process in order to develop and to test the application with Phone gap  • Worked on HTML, CSS to develop the front end of the mobile application and used JAVA script to develop the backend functionalities of the particular UI in this Ionic Framework  • Built Hybrid applications with Ionic Frame work, Xamarin in both iOS Xcode and Android Studio.  • Hands on experience with editor, debugging, native platform integration with Xamarin Studio.  • Collaborated with the team by using the version controller GIT HUB.  • Worked on Snowball application with Facebook API and Google API to communicate with messages.  • Developed Custom controls for UI Button, UI Text Field, UI Views, UI Text View.  • Development and enhancement of the next-generation Web View product.  • Worked with UI Navigation Bar, UI Custom Cell, UI Collection View, UI Date Picker, UI Page View Controller and Utility Views.  • Created Apple Watch app and worked with Apple Watch Labs. Created Watch App and Extension as well as middleware for Location and Beacon interfaces for end to end Apple Watch Solution.  • Created Apple Watch Loyalty system for major retailer consisting of Geo-Notification when in a retailer on Watch as well as display of Loyalty barcode on device as Glance Interface.  • Working with Apple, IBM and Major Retailers to provide Apple Pay in app purchases along with iBeacon hardware and software solutions for real time Ad presentation, deals and coupons, eCommerce Purchases and iPhone and iPad Next Generation applications.  • Led / mentored team of 15 offshore developers in India, Russia and Brazil. These developers consisted of iOS, Android and Java/J2EE Resources  • Built native IOS and Android applications using Android SDK, IOS SDK in Xamarin.  • Implemented various OOP practices including MVC, KVO, and Singleton architectures.  • Worked with universal storyboards, size classes, auto layouts to adapt user interface to context and different sized devices, used third party library cocoa Asyn Socket to work with sockets.  • Worked with Cocoa, Appkit, Foundation, Core services, Used Core location to update the location.  • Used NSURL, NSURL Connection, NSURL Request to interact with cloud.  • Used NS User Defaults to store user information in P-list.  • Back end response was JSON based and parsing was done using NS JSON Serialization  • Team utilized Agile development with weekly Scrum meetings.  • Knowledge of Android SDK and/or JVM performance tools and optimization techniques  • Investigated and resolved application issues, bottlenecks, and inefficiencies.  • Team utilized Agile development with weekly Scrum meetings and worked in fast paced environment.    Environment: Xcode 8, Ios 7, Ios 8, Ios 9, Ios, 10+, Swift 3, Objective-C, Java Script Tibco, Agile Methodology, Cocoa, Appkit, Asp, Rest Api, Xamarin, Mssql, Jenkins, Html, Asp.Net, Vb.Net, Css, Quality Coding, Android Studio. Sr. Android Developer BigCommerce - GE October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Experience In Iphone/Ipad Application Development.  • Provided a weekly progress report to the executive staff, ensuring that all parties were informed of milestones.  • Developed mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library.  • Worked on Slide out menu for show the user details using the views and SW reveal Controller.  • Worked with UI Kit Framework to design for Auto Layout Constraints development and maintenance.  • Work hand in hand on a daily basis with all Oath Product teams to provide support, improve the Android SDKs, understand their pain points and address their needs in the Android SDKs area  • Design and implement APIs that expose internal and external hardware functionality to Web Views, Unity, and/or Unreal  • Experience and/or knowledge of REST, JSON/GSON, SQLite, Dagger, Rx Java, Retrofit, Realm.  • Implemented Drop up menu for sharing the photos, contacts, etc. though the application.  • Created Core Data Model and NS Managed Objects to persist data on the device for access.  • Designed signup page and done validations for all fields experience with developing cross platform mobile applications using Xamarin  • Connection to web service was achieved using GCD. Delegate methods implemented to handle reception of response, data, error, and load finish.  • Worked with Open fire API for chatting and calling in the application by using Git hub.  • Worked with AV Foundation framework for audio and video.  • Completed a relatively simple work-in-progress written with Xamarin iOS native tools (not Xamarin Forms)  • Worked closely within a cross functional team of testers and developers.  • Debugging the issues in HAL implementation using logcat log prints.  • As individual contributor implemented Smart Lock keypad UI, Video Capture service & Bluetooth Socket Server Service as individual contributor using Fragments, Animator, Bluetooth Adapter, Network Manager, Media Player, Media Codec, Shared preferences APIs.  • Used C# in Xamarin to create native mobile application.  • Debugging issues at onsite whenever required.  • Knowledge of Android SDK and/or JVM performance tools and optimization techniques  • Worked with LLDB and Xcode for debugging.  • Worked with GIT to checkout and update the codebase changes.  • Reported progress/challenges to onsite project lead.  • Involved in iOS performance testing along with Functional and regression tests.  • Coordinated with Configuration Manager for continuous integration.  • Followed the Agile methodology for implementing the project.  • Took care of Code Review, Code Fixes, Bug Fixes, followed the Apple UI guidelines throughout the project.  • Implemented Camera API to submit work related photos and videos.  • Worked on web service calls, XML and JSON parsing included in the project.  • Worked with UI Tab Bar Controller to show information about contacts, chats, calls and voicemail, so that user can access specified view at any time.  • Followed MVC pattern for easy access and Implemented Navigations between views for the view controllers using Segues.  • Utilized Core Data for persistence of data and used versioning for data changes.  • Worked on Searching with Search Bar and inviting the contacts to chat and calling using framework.  • Implemented UI Scroll View to show the information about the usage of application.  • Worked on web service calls, XML and JSON parsing included in the project.  • Utilized MVC for design patterns and used instruments to prevent memory leaks.  • Used Automatic Reference Counting for managing the memory.  • Tested applications prior to final review to ensure that all issues were resolved in the most efficient manner.  • Developed Coding the presentation layer using WPF and Silverlight.  • Responsible for building the application front end UI in Flex, ActionScript, FlashBuilder4 and Parsley.    Environment: XCode, Swift, Objective-C, Cocoapods, iOS 8/iOS 9/iOS 10+, SVN, JIRA, Instruments, Interface Builder, Auto Layout, Size Classes, Xamarin, UIKit, Cocoa Touch, NS Operations, GCD, Core Data, Core Location, Mac OSX, RESTful JSON, MVC, AV Foundation, UIKit. Android Developer Nextgen Technologies Inc October 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed the screens by using Custom component views to reuse in other screens.  • Involved in IOS app build (Xcode) and deploy to test locally and multiple registered devices.  • Execute ADB commands to test the app on the Android platform ( major release components)  • Executed IOS native app, OScompatible (IOS 8 and 9 version)  • Developed interface for stocks with Bar graphs and Chart's using realm and charts to show the stock values.  • Worked with GDB, LLDBandXcode for debugging. Working with Subversion to checkout and update the codebase changes.  • Used Jenkins plugin which adds the ability to call Xcode command line tools to automate build and packaging iOS applications, worked with networking framework MKNetworkKit.  • Worked on NF Networking and NSURL Sessions for this application as per the requirement from the client.  • Used C# in Xamarin to create a native mobile application.  • Working experience in designing the iPhone application using Objective-C&Swift 3.0, used the current SDK's with Xcode8.3, 9.0 to support the latest version of iOS 10, 11.  • Good exposure in creating the Storyboards, Xib's and developing the custom UI as per the customer requirement, integrating the 3rd party libraries like Apptentive using the Cocoa Pods.  • Used RXJava as a library for composing asynchronous and event-based programs by using observable sequences.  • Used Wireframes, Ultron, Invisionapp extensively to measure the dimensions for developing the application and created the Animations to align with the business rules.  • Migrated the entire app from roboguice to Dagger2 dependency injection.  • Integrated HockeyApp to distribute the application to the Testers/QA and Product/Client.  • Implemented the Google Tag Manager (GTM) to update the screen's content and toggle the features in the application.  • Extensive experience in using Java and XML in developing Android applications using Android Studio/Eclipse with ADT plugin  • Hands-on experience with an editor, debugging, native platform integration with Xamarin Studio.  • Responsible for showing the huge JSON content on the UI by using different business logic and database queries.  • Personal responsible for converting native IOS built application in Xamarin for both IOS and Android.  • Started implementing Kotlin for JSON parsing for various modules of the application.  • Responsible for implementing Accessibility or Talk Back for each and every feature in the application.  • Responsible for Peer Code Review, Defect Resolutions.  • Designed, developed and deployed android applications for mobile multimedia  • OO Concepts and UML were immensely used for modeling.  • Developed the UI for the app using edit boxes, buttons, 9-patch images, time picker, date picker, dialog boxes, alert boxes and spinners using various layouts.  • Created new features to support application development in union with the team.  • Google Map API v2has been used to integrate map feature into the application.  • Used REST for web service calls.  • Built native IOS and Android applications using Android SDK, IOS SDK in Xamarin.  • Implemented logic to store and retrieve data related to latest deals in an SQLite database.  • Worked as a team to support the app for different Android API levels, like location, memory managementand Wi-Fi.  • Extensive experience in using Android Studio and Eclipse IDE I model if after Google support library which does the same thing for Android API but does not cover multimedia.  • Used latest components (Android) like Fragments, recycle views, In-Notification features.  • Worked on hybrid applications by using Xamarin framework for both Android and iOS.  • JSON parsing was implemented using GSON parser to parse the data and access the services.  • Time constraint issues, exceptions and errors were effectively handled for the app.    Environment: Iphone, Android 4.0 Versions, Java, Xamarin, Android Sdk, Adt 16.0.0, Eclipse Luna, Svn, Rest Api (Xml), Mysql, Shared Preferences, Sqlite, Android Sdk, Html, Xml, Jdk7.0, Eclipse, Xamarin, Google Maps, Androidapi, Android 2.3+, Apache Tomcat, Sqlite, Jdbc, Jax-Rs Sr. Web Developer Travelzoo Inc - Austin, TX April 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created numerous web applications utilizing MV, C#, jQuery, AJAX and Web Services.  • Instituted and trained fellow developers on a custom Data Access Layer utilizing the Entity Framework, LINQ and Lambda expressions.  • Implemented cross-departmental Innovation Meetings to engage employees to explore new avenues of revenue-generating or cost-saving ideas.  • Coordinated branching/merging strategies incorporating Team Foundation Server 2010.  • Assisted in running various Agile project management meetings (Sprint Planning Meetings, Scrums, etc)  • Built popular and trending module with ListView library, providing users the popular and trending projects on GitHub  • Hands on experience using Selenium and writing Selenium tests through Eclipse including  Quality Center.  • Working in agile scrum development environment with bi-weekly sprint.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag libraries.  • Experience in using Java/J2EE technologies like JSPs, Servlets, EJBs, JDBC, JNDI.  • Integration of ANT/Nexus, Cloudbees Jenkins, Urban Code Deploy with Patterns/Release, Git, Confluence, Jira.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive UI web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, Google web toolkit and CSS.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, IOS, ANDROID, HIBERNATE, C#, JQUERY, ENTITY FRAMEWORK, SQL SERVER 2008, TFS 2010, MVC, GITHUB, SELENIUM, SCRUM, JSP, SERVLETS, ANT, GOOGLE WEB TOOLKIT Web Developer SercoTechnologies - Silver Spring, MD May 2010 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created and maintained numerous business critical applications. These applications were the cornerstone of the organization and needed to be highly effective as well as very efficient.  • Developed efficiency reports for senior management.  • Developed an online task assignment application. This application is used to assign various tasks in the business process to an employee and provide relevant metrics to management.  • Developed and maintained web services to allow clients to submits orders and receive reports.  • Worked closely with various department heads throughout the SDLC.  • Created a repository on GitHub and connected with local and server for developer maintain the application code on local.  • Involved in Automation of Web Application using Selenium.  • Experienced in ALM Tools TFS, Jira, VersionOne, Rally as Scrum Master for project planning, metrics and reporting.  • Developed a web-based system with HTML, XML, Java Script, JSP Tag Libraries, CSS and Custom Tag Libraries using Struts 1.2 framework.  • Worked with SOAP, dependency injection frameworks and Java Servlets.  • Designed and developed lots of custom Wordpress codes, themes and plug-in.  • Worked heavily on Drupal CMS development and developed various custom modules.  • Expertise in developing application using Microsoft .NET framework, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, VB.NET, C#, WPF.  • Utilized ASP.NET 2.0 validation controls and JavaScript to perform client side validation.  • Re-Designed, coded, implemented and tested new features using C#, C++, QT.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Android, IOS, Mobile Apps, C#/VB.NET, SQL Server 2005, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, REST/SOAP, Crystal Reports, Agile, Silverlight, GITHUB, SELENIUM, SCRUM, JSP, SERVLETS, WORDPRESS, DRUPAL, .NET, ASP, C++ Education MS in Computer Science University Of Delaware