Senior Software Developer Senior Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Tata Consultancy Services ? 9 years of strong experience in Software Development Methodology such as SDLC, Agile, Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing of Object-Oriented applications and Web based Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE on Unix / Linux and Windows platforms  ? Successfully designed and implemented systems based on MVC architecture using J2EE technologies such as JSP, JPA (Java Persistence API), JSF, JUnit, JMS, Servlets, and Spring, Struts, Web services  ? Good experience with XML (DOM, SAX), JAXB, HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript  ? Proficient in Java Multi-threading, Synchronization, Collections and Exception handling concepts  ? Good exposure to no SQL database models such as Cassandra, Mongo & Couchbase  ? Good Knowledge on Tomcat 6.x, Web logic 10.x Application servers and Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g data bases  ? Good hands on Spring Boot framework, Hibernate, Unix shell scripting & Pivotal Cloud Foundry  ? Good exposure to ETL tools such as Pentaho Data Integration and Talend Bigdata Integration  ? Good experience in interacting with Business users in analyzing the Business  Process requirements, transforming them into design documents and rolling out them as deliverables  ? Good team player with excellent work history as regards with work ethics, dependability and willingness to go an extra mile.  ? Strong Programming Skills in Core Java and J2EE Technologies.  ? Experience in providing Production Support & Application Maintenance for Java/J2EE applications.  ? Good exposure to Oracle Procedures, Functions, Triggers and PL/ SQL object design  ? Ability to deliver quality work under pressure and attitude to meet client deadlines  ? Proactive in problem understanding, Analysis and define methodical approach to problem solution  ? Have good exposure in GUI design, DB layer and Middle ware which communicates with various external systems and different databases  ? Well exposure to SOAP and Restful web services usage & implementation  ? Hands on experience on Hadoop bigdata platform concepts like Hive, Hive SQL & Accumulo data bases Work Experience Senior Software Developer Tata Consultancy Services October 2014 to Present Role: Senior Software Developer  Description:    Comcast Cable Communications Inc. has engaged TCS for development and support of Its existing applications and services. BIS (BSS Integration Services) are a team within Comcast with a suite of products and services to provide Integration Services for Business Support  Systems within Comcast Communications. All the strategic services supported by BIS team are  bundled under a project named "Enterprise Services Platform". The Enterprise Services Senior Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services March 2013 to October 2014 Description:    Verizon is an American broadband and Telecommunications Company which provides various Telecommunication services to Customers. BGW (Broadband Gateway) is the state-of-the-art Broadband provisioning system developed by Verizon for the entire Verizon backbone network (Domestic & International). The primary focus of the BGW system is to provide integrated order fulfilment, through Automated Assignment, Activation and Inventory Services, thereby reducing the time to market and hence the increase in revenue. BGW does integrated live provisioning for the products of former - GNS and TPTA systems. The current project named 'End to End Integration' aims at integrating and automating the provisioning for products of various Verizon owned systems like PC, BGW, MECCA, VFORCE, VDDS, SNM, CW.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Development of new features and services based on the Change Requests raised by Verizon  • Have involved in Impact analysis, Design document preparation, Coding & Unit Testing  • Have led the team & performed code review Status tracking of the team's deliverables & provide ETA to customer for the new enhancements  • Have carried out Quality assurance activities (reviews, walk through etc.) as defined in the Project Plan  • Unit Testing and Integration Testing  • Have worked in UI as well as back end modules Be responsible for the overall quality and timeliness of the deliverables  • Co-ordinate with Expert groups for special support  • Identifying and documenting the technical issues and the approach to resolve the same  • Optimizing codes developed in Java  • Have involved in UI, Business layer and DB layer  • Redesigned of Legacy PL/SQL code to Java Objects design and tuning of application performance Senior Web Developer Tata Consultancy Services March 2012 to March 2013 Description:    Verizon is an American broadband and Telecommunications Company which provides various Telecommunication services to Customers. AccOrd is an Ordering System which serves primarily in North East Region - NY, NE. It will be a national platform for all access orders. Accord receives Orders from Customers, validate the orders, Assign Circuits& Critical dates, Generate Service Order, and Send billing & Provisioning feeds. Verizon's Access Ordering System is developed for wholesale business to process the Access Service requests from Access Carriers like AT&T, Sprint and Century Link as to share the resources owned by Verizon as Local Exchange Carriers-Access Providers. The AccOrd is considered as one stop Order management system in Verizon- wholesale business. ASR work flow is a complete status driven process. Customers in NY and NE regions enter their orders into AccOrd order management systems. After the initial validations and complete validations, the request will be handed over to Work flow Manager. The request will be assigned to the appropriate systems via PC- Provisioning Control.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Communicating with the Client for collecting the requirements and documenting the same.  • Studying existing system and reviewing the same.  • Preparing the Impact analysis document and High-level and low-level design for new requirements.  • Development of prototype for Client approval.  • Identifying and documenting the technical issues and the approach to resolve the same.  • Optimizing codes developed in Java  • Have involved in UI, Business layer and DB layer.    • Involved in Preparation of HLD, LLD and UTP doc as per Client requirements.    • Preparation of UML diagrams    • Have worked on Java Messaging Services    • Have worked on JAXB for Marshall & Un Marshall concepts    • Have implemented Revamp of SQL objects to Java objects•    • Involved in integrating with the UI design and implementations    • Performed Unit testing for the developed code handling exceptions and data validations in both Business layer and Back end layer    • Have prepared reusable components which will be used across the Accord application    • Have fixed the issues while System Testing Phase    • Involved in resolving of Production environment issues Java / J2EE Web Developer Tata Consultancy Services September 2010 to March 2012 Description:    SMB is a Small and Medium Business tool used for ordering and payment of Century link Products and Services by Century link customers to establish new service, order additional products and services, make payment online, upgrade existing products and services, view the products and services for which they are currently billed and perform inquiries on pending orders. SMB as an application interface with a lot of external systems to authenticate, validate, and provide the exact qualification data to the user. The user can order products within the defined business rules and rates for his location. The order flows through from Order processing to provisioning, activation fulfilment, shipping and billing without any manual intervention. The project is an ongoing project which involves both development and maintenance of application. In order to achieve the rich user experience and customer satisfaction the new Century link Products and Services have to be offered to the customers with attractive promo prices.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Communicating with the Client for collecting the requirements and documenting the same.  • Studying existing system and reviewing the same.  • Preparing the Impact analysis document and High-level and low-level design for new requirements.  • Development of prototype for Client approval.  • Identifying and documenting the technical issues and the approach to resolve the same.  • Optimizing codes developed in Business & DB layers  • Constructing the solution/component in impacted by the change request and Enhancements.  • System Testing and Debugging.  • Managing the configuration and controlling the versions of source codes using Serena Dimensions  • Coordinating with the clients for System test and User Acceptance Test.  • Resolving Architectural and Technical issues while developing the system Comcast in January 2007 to 2007 The ESP is comprised of 14 development/delivery teams ("Service  Teams") who provide re-usable services that may then be consumed by both internal and External application teams ("consumers") alike. The main focus of the ESP is to provide a Service  Façade around the back-end systems within Comcast, in order to abstract away the complexities  Of interfacing with those back ends. There are upstream and downstream application from/to the data is received / sent for the further processing and billing of the shipments.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering and developing the use cases.  • Involved in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle using waterfall methodology including Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation, Deployment and Enhancement, implementation from middle level to senior level.  • Designed class diagrams and sequence diagrams  • Responsible for designing hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships  • Used J2EE design patterns like DAO, Value Object Pattern, Service Locator  • Developed web pages using JSP, JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript  • Developed Soap & Restful Webservices  • Developed etl scripts to migrate data from Oracle to Mongo database.  • Developed several data migration utilities to move data from Oracle to Cassandra & Couchbase databases  • Involved in moments of application from development to QA, QA to UAT and UAT to Production environments.  • Stream lining production support process, shift allocations, reviews  • Implemented logging by using Log4j  • Coding, Analyzing, Unit Testing regular BAU (Business As Usual) projects.  • Analysis on new Web service operation and its implementation as per Business requirements Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Andhra University - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh Skills C++, Git, Gradle, Hive, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Solr, Svn, Xml, Bea, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jms, Jsf, Jsp, Linux Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages C, C++, Java/ J2EE, Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, ETL Pentaho DI, Talend BDI  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JPA, JDBC, Collections, Multi-threading, JMS, JSF, Web services (SOAP & Rest)  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, CSS, XML, XSD, JSON  Databases Oracle 10g, Mongo, Cassandra, Couchbase databases  Application/ Web Servers Apache Tomcat, Oracle WebLogic 10.x, Pivotal Cloud, Amazon S3  Web Services Apache Axis, SOAP, Restful Web services  IDE Eclipse, Spring Tool Suit, BEA Workspace studio, IntelliJ  Tools PL/SQL Developer, Pentaho DI, SOAP UI, Dev Center, Mongo Chef  J2EE Frameworks Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, JSF, Ext JS  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Gradle  Version Control Systems CVS, SVN, Tortoise SVN, Serena Dimensions, Git  Messaging Services JMS, Rabbit MQ and Kafka  Query Languages SQL, PL/SQL, CQL with Solr, Hive Query Language, Presto Query Design  Testing/Logging tools JUnit, Easy Mock, Log4J, Mockito  Methodologies SDLC, Agile, Waterfall  Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Mac OS  CI / CD Tools Jenkins, Go CD