Web Application Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> PHP Full Stack Web Developer / MA in Physics Granada Hills, CA Experienced web developer with more than seven years of hands-on experience in developing front-end and back-end systems. Working towards achieving my best in the field while applying my scientific knowledge and the background. Looking forward to making a difference in my next position while leveraging my deep understanding of complex algorithms and utilizing my problem-solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Application Developer Allamoda Group - Los Angeles, CA June 2017 to Present • Built large scale E-commerce websites for retail and wholesale.  • Search Engine Optimization.  • Responsible for development, administration of Web servers, and maintenance.  Inventory Management System:large scale and complex inventory, delivery, invoicing and accounting  PHP - CSS3 - HTML5 - JavaScript - JQuery - AJAX - MySQL - WooCommerce PHP Web Developer Grad CO. HVAC System Designing and Manufacturing May 2013 to October 2016 Air Handling Units (AHU) selection web application design and developing.  PHP - CSS3 - HTML5 - JavaScript - JQuery - AJAX - MySQL Freelancer January 2013 to May 2016 Full Stack Web Developer  PHP - CSS3 - HTML5 - JavaScript - JQuery - AJAX - MySQL - Wordpress - WooCommerce Co-Founder Nuchito LLC - Yerevan, AM April 2011 to August 2012 Education Master's in Physics Yerevan State University / Department of Molecular Physics 2009 to 2011 Bachelor's in Physics Yerevan State University / Department of Physics 2005 to 2009 Skills Javascript, PHP, Wordpress, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, Ajax, OOP, MVC, Vue.js, Laravel, SQL, MySQL, WooCommerce, SEO, Corel Draw, Photoshop, Wolfram Mathematica, Numerical Analysis, Computer Modeling Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mirzakhanian-adeh http://adeh.info Awards Annual Educational Award of the President of the Republic of Armenia in IT Sphere. 2012-10 President of Armenia Best project award in the international young scientist’s conference. 2010 National Academy of Sciences