WEB DESIGNER <span class="hl">WEB</span> DESIGNER I am currently a web designer at Haines Local Search, where I have obtained years of experience. I actively seek new challenging opportunities where creativity is encouraged. I also dabble in photography. Akron, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience WEB DESIGNER Haines Local Search - North Canton, OH July 2016 to May 2019 • Created websites weekly using WordPress, Divi, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, & JavaScript.  • I use the Adobe Creative Suite daily.  • Revisions daily and I was able to complete them by the deadline.   • Responsible for troubleshooting all WordPress plugins.   • The best SEO practices were added to all websites.  • Implemented website into hosting account.  • Established web hosting for the site and uploaded the site to the Web Design  • Identified and eliminated website bugs to improve user experience.   • Designed user interface to meet client specifications and content.  • Created designs in a CMS environment. WEB DEVELOPER Metisentry - Akron, OH September 2015 to February 2016 • Discussed goals, project goals and milestones.   • Created site layout and user interface using HTML and CSS practices.   • Designed, implemented web pages and sites for continuous improvement. WEB DEVELOPER Data Command - Akron, OH July 2015 to September 2015 • Updated the companies Info-Portal using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript   • Researched new technologies, products for use in website projects.   • Used various technologies, including WordPress to make code repairs and optimize corporate website. WEB DESIGNER MobilityWorks - Richfield, OH July 2012 to July 2015 • Created the monthly e-newsletter using Adobe Suite.   • Created basic graphics for presentations, newsletter and blog using Adobe Photoshop.   • Edited inventory images in Adobe Suite.   • Assisted with completely updated and redesigned the company website.   • Worked closely with Manager & Senior Web Designer on WordPress blogs and social media marketing. Education Bachelor of Science in Web Design and Multimedia WESTWOOD COLLEGE Skills Bootstrap, PHP, JavaScript, HTML5, Web Design, Front-End Web Development, WordPress, jQuery, CSS3, Divi, Responsive Design, CMS, Editing, Graphics, Troubleshooting, Self-motivated, SEO, Cpanel & WHM, Domain & Web Hosting, Domain Names, Team management, Adobe Creative Suite, CSS Links http://jensobczak.co.nf/ Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2w527gdtlouaoj83 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.