ServiceNow Developer/ Administrator ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Administrator ServiceNow Developer/ Administrator - Deutsche bank Cary, NC • Over 7+ Years of IT experience and 4+ years of experience in ITIL related technologies, including ServiceNow Development, Administration.  • Hands-on experience in technical implementation of Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management and Service Catalog.  • Implementing system security by using Access Control Lists (ACL).  • Experience with Implementation, Configuration and maintenance of Business Rules, Data Dictionary, Client Scripts and UI Policies, custom ITIL Applications, Modules.  • Good Knowledge of ITIL and ITSM best practices.  • Experience in configuring Data Sources, Import Sets, SLA/OLA, LDAP and Transform maps.  • Experience in configuring the ACLs and create Users, Roles and User Groups.  • Configured LDAP Server, for pulling user and group data from Active Directory  • Extensively involved in development of moderately complex ServiceNow applications and reports.  • Defining workflows in Service Catalog items, Approvals and Dynamic tasks in ServiceNow.  • CMDB data import using transforms maps.  • Experience loading data into ServiceNow using Import Sets.  • Experience migration between environments in ServiceNow using Update Sets.  • Managing data with tables, CMDB (configuration management) import sets Users, Groups and roles.  • Worked on fixing bugs and doing enhancements for Incident, Problem and Change management and Service Catalog modules.  • Experience configuring Discovery Schedules and Worked on Discovery and set up MID Servers and check for the connectivity.  • Developing different bar charts, pie charts, list reports and scheduling reports.  • Worked on Client, Server-side scripts to meet client requirements using Glide Record APIs.  • Developed solutions using JavaScript, Ajax, Web Services REST APIs and other web technologies to integrate ServiceNow with internal/ external systems and tools.  • Email Integration Configure Email Notification and Alerts to notify users about specific activities in the system such as updates to Change and Problem requests.  • Created different Transform maps to import data into ServiceNow.  • Experience in implementing end-to-end Service Catalog.  • Worked in Installation and Configuration of different modules of ServiceNow.  • Hands on experience developing Content Management System (CMS) in Service Now.  • Worked on End to End implementation of CMDB module using Discovery tool in ServiceNow.  • Provides daily support of Service Management Platform (ServiceNow), including Scripting, Configuration, Customization, Integrations, Administration ServiceNow processes (User management/Group management), Functions, Service Catalog and Workflow.  • Expertise writing SQL Queries  • Configured MID Server to import data from external sources.  • Used testing framework for automating scripts on java  • Experience in integrating ServiceNow with Web services (SOAP and REST).  • Experience in web development (UI) using HTML 5, CSS 3, Angular JS and J Query.  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile Methodology.  • Maintained the Configuration Items and modified the forms and form Sections.  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills- able to present information, status and issues in a clear and concise manner with the goal of driving to a decision.  • A passionate, articulate, goal-oriented and dynamic professional with successful background in Requirement Gathering, Technical Documentation, Software Validation, Software release and experienced Software Developer in ServiceNow.  • Attention to detail and complex problem-solving abilities from operational and technical perspective.  • Excellent analytical skills with proficiency in debugging and problem solving.  • Ability to work independently and as a group.  • Aptitude for learning and rapidly mastering new applications and technology. Work Experience ServiceNow Developer/ Administrator Deutsche bank - Cary, NC March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodology for the development of the project.  • Designed and delivered technical implementations on the Service Now platform.  • Gathered requirement from stake holders for attributes needed to develop Service Catalog items.  • Worked with clients to assess current state processes and tools, defined Service Now requirements and developed and configured the Service Now platform.  • Design and implement new functionality using Business rules, UI policies, and ACL's etc.  • Created various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management, Service Requests and SLA'S.  • Designed a website and customized login pages, search pages, views of lists, tables, charts, or graphs.  • Created buttons and context menus both on form and lists using UI actions  • Used Glide Scripting to develop Business rules.  • Developed solutions using JavaScript, Web Services, SOAP and other web technologies to integrate Service Now with internal/ external systems and tools.  • Written script includes and invoked them in Business rules and client scripts.  • Worked with Record Producers, Flows in Service Catalog Management.  • Worked on various modules of Service Now like Incident management, Change management, and Problem management, Service Catalog, User Administration.  • Managed integration of vendor tasks, tracking and reviewing vendor deliverables.  • Demonstrated strong problem solving, negotiating, influencing, facilitation, organization, prioritization, decision making, and conflict resolution skills.  • Integrated ServiceNow Dev instance with the existing LDAP and Single Sign-On (SSO) solution.  • Configured Mid Server's on Dev, User acceptance testing and Production Instances.  • Worked in production support for all the Service-Now and report related issues.  • Developed Transform maps to map values between Import Set and ServiceNow tables.  • Coordinating with various teams during Development and Testing Phase  Environment: ServiceNow application development, ServiceNow architecture, UI policies, UI actions, Business rules, ServiceNow API and JavaScript, ServiceNow Discovery, CMDB maintenance, LDAP integration. ServiceNow Developer/ Administrator Liberty Mutual - Dover, NH December 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the project team to help define the business and system.  • Understanding of IT service management (ITSM) and the ITIL business process. Maintain service level agreement (SLA) and monitor SLA workflow.  • Gathered requirements through JAD session with stakeholders, business partners, and end users.  • Created update sets to migrate customizations from one instance to another.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Interacted with team leaders to identify and analyze the given information, procedures and decision flow  • Designing and implementing of service requests through ServiceNow Catalog.  • Use Administration of common platform applications: Knowledge Base, Service Catalog, Workflows, SLA's, Reporting etc.  • Managing client scripts, UI policies, UI actions and Data policies.  • Moving data in and out of an instance using import sets and transform maps and auto import of data into service now.  • Developed new applications from beginning to end.  • Integration of service now with LDAP for authentication.  • Subject Matter expert on Incident Management, Change Management Process and Knowledge article.  • Developed conversion plans and procedures.  • Developed and executed plans and procedures for data conversion, customer acceptance criteria and installation strategy.  • Migration of customizations from one instance to another instance.  • Ongoing Maintenance.  Environment: ITIL, ITSM, ServiceNow, SQL, MS Visio, UI actions, LDAP, Service catalog, Project Management, Analytics, Incident Management, Problem Management. ServiceNow Developer Cars.com - Chicago, IL August 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Gathering requirements from the client and analyzing them.  • Preparing Implementation Plan for every release in ServiceNow and provide Walkthrough to the entire team to execute the steps.  • Building ServiceNow from scratch and developing forms as per clients need.  • Creating catalog items and creating record producers in service catalog.  • Working on different modules like Incident, Problem, Change.  • Working experience on ServiceNow Discovery module.  • Experience in creating UI policies, UI actions and Client scripts.  • Integrating LDAP and done different integration.  • Worked on the things relating to ServiceNow: Discovery, Automation, CMDB populate Security & Roles.  • Performed ServiceNow admin activities, which involves group and user administration.  • Leveraging knowledge and experience to deliver end-to-end methodologies within Service Now, which includes architecting technical implementation of IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) processes, organizing and prioritizing development effort, interfacing with vendors and management, and coordinating effort of administrators.  • Understanding of IT service management (ITSM) and the ITIL business process Maintain service level agreement (SLA) and monitor an SLA workflow.  • Working on workflow and approval issues in service requests.  • Apart from above performing regular activities like moving the code changes from development to test instance and testing all modules when ServiceNow new patch is applied.  Environment: Service catalog, Project Management, Analytics, Incident Management, Problem Management, ITIL, LDAP, UI actions, Glide Record, Html, jQuery, Jelly Script, Glide Script, LDAP, CSS. Web Developer A One Technology Inc June 2011 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, design, and implementation of front-end part of the application.  • Developed the UI Screens using HTML5, XML, JavaScript, Custom-tags and CSS3.  • Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Used jQuery to select and manipulate HTML5 elements and CSS3 manipulation.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Converted wireframes in templates including creation of brand identity, web site header, menu, information containers, grid styles, navigation, forms, buttons, icons, images, user components and application widgets creation with suitable color schemes.  • Worked with the team of architects and back-end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  • Wrote test plans and performed unit testing and performance testing.  • Worked with the systems team and Quality assurance team in the process.  • Brought the HTML5 and CSS3 of an existing web site to the latest web standards.  Module/Language: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Notepad++, DOM, Windows. Education Master's degree in Computer Science in Computer Science New York Institute of Technology Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Html, Javascript, Reporting tools, Scripting, Itil, Remedy, Ldap, Ajax, Css, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Java, jquery, Sdlc, Ms office, Crystal reports